ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, a nice afternoon greeting for everyone. I propose that we begin with the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and are unable to attend today's meetings of our colleagues and colleagues: Roberto Battelli, Geza Juban, Anton Delak, Pavel Rupar, Lois Peterle Victory Jelinčič, Bojan Kontič, Leopold Grošelj, Silva Črnugelj, Aurelio Juri, Jelko Kacin and colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič from 17:00 on. Please, by entering the card into the voting device, establish the presence in the hall. I note that 58 colleagues and colleagues are present, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much. Today's continuation of the 4th session will begin with the consideration of the proposals for ratifications of international treaties and the 21st item, which is the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the draft law on the abolition of long-term eco-reservations, then we will move on to the third item, this is the proposal of the Veterinary Act, then on the 11th item, this is a proposal for a law on customs measures for infringements of intellectual property rights and in order to proceed. Colleagues and colleagues are moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION OF 31. OF JANUARY 1963, SUPPLEMENTING THE PARIS CONVENTION OF 29. JULY 1960, AS IT WAS CHANGED WITH AN ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL OF 28. IN JANUARY 1964 AND WITH PROTOCOL OF 16. NOVEMBER 1982. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative, the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Which one of your colleagues? Nobody wants the word, so I'm closing the debate. I propose that the National Assembly decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on the proposed decision. There are 63 Members and Members of Parliament in the Chamber. The proposal was supported by 43, no one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 50 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the bill, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for an Act on the Succession of Agreements of the former Yugoslavia with regard to the Soviet Socialist Republics, which remains in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the Russian Federation. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Neither does the secretariat. Emissary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] I propose that the National Assembly decide to vote only on the proposal for an act in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[Nobody.]] Then I put him to the vote. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present. 51 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We can therefore move on to a full decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 47 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed act is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes. Does the representative of the government who has put the bill into consideration for the assembly want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? [[Nobody.]] The MPs and the MPs? Please, buddy Pukšič. My friend Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Given that we have quite a number of our people who have moved out in the United States, and given that it is to be expected in the future, I will say that there are even more concerns about returning back to the country, so I would like to explain to the government about this prepared convention on taxation or double taxation. Although certain matters are not sufficiently clear from the Convention itself, compared to the convention or agreement reached by Croatia, it seems to me that it is more encouraging for people to return or invest their resources or to receive income in Croatia than it is for us. Indeed, it is true that the Convention states that taxes that are to be taxed in the United States are to be taken into account in the United States of America. However, we know that the differences between the levels of development or income with us or in the United States of America are significant, in multiples, and it happens automatically that those who would return and receive income then with us - not least scientists who are in the United States for a certain period of time at professional completing or whatever already on the outside - happen to automatically fall to that highest rate of taxation 50% and the issue can become quite disstimulating. However, I do believe that it was not the interest of those who prepared the ratification in this way, I will say, to reject the return of Slovenians from the United States on such or different terms. I would therefore like to ask for clarifications from governments in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Anyone else want a word from their colleagues? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Undersecretary of State, would you like to answer my colleague Puksic's questions? Mr. Bekesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Mr Puksic, honourable Members and Members, Mr President! The Ministry of Finance led the substantive part of the negotiations. Unfortunately, this moment, the Ministry of Finance is not here. I am sure that the negotiations have been conducted with the best of intentions, including in terms of the pledoyaje, which your debate contains. I do not know the details, as has been said, because neither have my fellow international legal partners involved in this matter. I would therefore suggest that we postpone this point within this session to the end of the ratifications - I hope that this time we will have a representative of the Ministry of Finance who will be able to give a qualified substantive response. Of course, mine is only formal - otherwise we should postpone it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. It also takes into account your proposal - it is likely that colleague Puksic and others will agree - I propose that we place this point on the tail of those points concerning the law on ratifications of international treaties in the hope that by then we will be joined by an authorised government representative who will be able to answer this question. In this way, by the permission of the National Assembly, the 17th point on this site would be suspended. Does anyone have any objections? [[No, no, ……]] Then I interrupt the point, and we place it at the end of the ratification laws. If, by then, the authorised representative of the government, who could respond to the question in a qualified manner, will not, but we will move the point towards the continuation of the meeting next week, on Tuesday. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Turkey. The bill was also tabled by the Government in the National Assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does his representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[It's not a big deal.]] Do any of the Members or Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. This time, too, I propose that the National Assembly vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Such a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Anyone want a word on this proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] Then I put him to the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present. The draft decision was supported by 49 colleagues and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The proposal was supported by 55 colleagues and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. I'm moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the International Convention on the Search and Resolution at Sea, 1979. The proposal for a law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[They don't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. I propose that we conclude on the proposal that we vote only on the proposal of the law in its entirety. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 53 of them voted in favour of such a motion for a decision, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. 54 voted in favour of the bill, none of which objected. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the International Convention on Preparedness, Response and Cooperation with Oil in the Summer of 1990. Does the representative of the government who submitted this bill to the National Assembly want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Since no one wants to discuss it, I propose that we vote on the proposal to vote only on the bill as a whole. I put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 50 votes in favour, no one objecting to the proposal. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. 47 were fully supported by the bill, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the withdrawal of the draft law on the abolition of long-term reserves for environmental recovery, second defence, EPA 1655 of the legislative procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia informed the assembly, by letter of 12 March 2001, as the proposer of that proposal, that it had withdrawn from the legislative procedure the proposal for the abolition of long-term eco-reservation provisions at second reading. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Comrade Dr. Andrej Bajuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to ask the Government to explain why it withdraws this proposal and what it intends to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	In the 21st item of the agenda, she is to speak on behalf of the government in front of the National Assembly of Magi. Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment and Space, or Mr Marko Slokar, State Secretary in the Ministry of Environment and Space. If Mr Minister and Secretary of State are in the National Assembly, I invite them to join the House quickly, so that I can answer Dr. Bayuk's question, otherwise I will ask Dr. Bayuk whether he insists on oral explanation, given that the government has already done so in written information. No, no, no. You don't insist. Okay. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the bill on the abolition of long-term eco-reservations in second reading - EPA-1655 from the legislative process. We're voting. There are 69 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 43 supported them, 5 opposed him. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the Government's proposal to withdraw that bill from the legislative process has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, and I ask you to prepare us for this consideration. It's a proposal for a Veteran Act, as soon as possible. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government and invite them to join the assembly because we will invite them to have an introduction on this subject. Please, I give the floor to Mr Zoran Kovac, Director of Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, to have a word on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members. Allow me first to apologize to the Minister on his way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Just a minute. If you can be a speaker, yes. Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Once again, honourable Members and honourable Members. Allow me first to apologize to the Minister, who is on his way to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we did not expect to be in line with the veterinary law so quickly today. True, but we have also been moved several times, and no one has hoped that the law will actually be dealt with today. The Government submitted the Veterinary Act in its proposal to the National Assembly as early as October 2000. In its proposal, it provided for some organisational and structural changes to the veterinary service. Veterinary care is an area subject to continuous additions and changes, mainly due to the ever-increasing new ways of controlling the production of foodstuffs of animal origin, and veterinary health is also an area which is one of the most precisely regulated areas in European Union legislation, as it is regulated in this context through 700 Directives and over 500 other European Union legal acts. Legislation governing veterinary matters is also extremely extensive and complex in the Republic of Slovenia, as this legislation is subject to urgent changes if we want the protection of the consumer and the protection of animal health to be comparablely regulated and effectively regulated. The existing veterinary law, which was adopted in 1994, has been amended and amended several times so far, most recently in 1999, but is urgently amended in view of the changed situation and the more effective implementation of consumer protection, the protection of healthy animals, in particular due to the more appropriate regulation of the extensive veterinary field. The amendments that have already been tabled in the parliamentary procedure have established the basic points for supplementing and regulating the state of the veterinary situation and are thus duly summarised and amended in such a way as to allow for the effective implementation of veterinary matters and also constitute an appropriate adaptation of the area to the requirements of the European Union. The law will provide an effective basis for the adoption of the missing sub-legislative acts, which need to be adopted this year in order to harmonise the rules with the European acquis. Several comments and amendments have been tabled in the process of addressing the proposal in the working bodies of the National Assembly, which have greatly helped to improve the text itself. The bill follows the basic principle of the relevant structure of the veterinary service, enables it to function effectively and rationalises it only within. Of course, rationalisation will not take place the next day after the adoption of the law, but by law there is a process that will allow for gradual and effective change of institutions operating in the veterinary field in the Republic of Slovenia. The legal regulation of veterinary matters as areas of elephants in the complexity of the performance of all public tasks, as well as promoting private initiative and regulating the area of animal diseases, prescribes measures for their prevention, repression and eradication, veterinary health prevention, sets out the minimum level of animal health protection against infectious diseases, lays down the way in which it is financed, regulates the veterinary service, where it follows the principle of division of service into public and private, and in this way adequately governs the area of sharing the responsibility and obligations of an individual or society for the protection of human and animal health. The law specifically regulates the organisation of a veterinary service where an international Convention on the Establishment of an International Bureau of Infectious Diseases was used and taken into account as a starting point in 1997 and where it is specifically stipulated that the veterinary service must be organised as a special unit or an administration whose head is directly responsible to the Minister. The legislative text also sets out an area in which the chairman shall carry out all tasks relating to the suppression of animal infectious diseases, including border measures, in an appropriate and appropriate manner. The law also takes due account of the provisions of other international treaties and ratified conventions and thus allows for appropriate international comparability of the operation and organisation of the veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia. The law summarises the structural division and determines the functioning of the veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia and is, as such, adequately divided into national and private, and introduces logic into the functioning of the veterinary service and clearly defines the obligations of the State and of the individual. The law specifically regulates the operating systems of state laboratories, where we followed the principle of rationalisation and took into account the specificities of the economic and research situation of professional and educational institutions in our country. In this way, we have properly established a network of laboratories that are trained to diagnose infectious diseases and identify harmful substances in foodstuffs of animal origin. In this way, an active inter- and intra-laboratory check is made possible and the credibility of the analyses obtained by the State guarantees by issuing its health certificates or international certificates is adequately regulated. The delimitation of the veterinary service to the public and private sector means the appropriate rationalisation of the State budget resources, in particular allowing the management of activities which are in the wider interest of the company or which measures are financially responsible for individual or which veterinary services are subject to the economic principles of supply and demand and which are of such a nature that economic principles do not apply to them. The proposed law will have no additional financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as the financing of the functioning of the veterinary service is already defined in the budget. The funds will not increase or decrease due to the adoption, but more efficient use will be made of the resources already available. The adoption of the law alone will also not bring additional costs to the users of veterinary services, as was the question raised by the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly, since it will in principle summarise all the provisions and obligations in the law already in force. However, the prices of veterinary services will be developed in the service market together with users, as it has been tabled and also supported by the amendment to Article 72, which specifically stipulates that users in the world of users will participate in the development of the prices of the Veterinary Chamber, which will also market its services on the market. Nor does the law have negative consequences for employees in institutions that have worked so far, as they are being reorganised. Their scope of work will not be reduced, but will only be adequately and structurally regulated. The adoption of the law is essential for the implementation of the national programme for the amendment of Slovenian legislation and the approximation of European legislation. It is also essential for the smooth progress of veterinary legislation and for the effective work of veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia in general. I therefore hope and also wish that the National Assembly will adopt the law in the proposed form, together with the amendments tabled, thus allowing the veterinary service to operate actively, bringing Slovenia closer to the European Union, as it is envisaged that negotiations in the broad veterinary field will also be concluded in 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovac. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, I would like to present the work done by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The government has proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the Veterinary Act in a rapid manner with a view to adapting European Union legislation. In addition, this is a system law in the veterinary field, which is also in the programme for the adoption of the acquis of the European Union by the end of 2000. The Committee considered this law at two further meetings. In addition to the proposal for a law, the members of the Committee also received comments addressed to the Committee by the Veterinary Chamber, comments by the Economic Interest Association of Pigs, comments by the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia and, of course, opinions by the Secretariat on legal matters in our National Assembly. All the said institutions which submitted comments were invited to the meeting of the Committee, so that they could explain their comments to this Act in addition to the written proposals. I have also convened several consultations within the Committee with interested Members and the heads of the parliamentary groups on this law. After first reading, including those comments which were made in writing and orally at the Committee's own meeting, the Committee asked the representatives of the Government or the Government to prepare the amendments and forward them to the Committee. That's what the government did and suggested. We discussed these amendments at the committee meeting. We supported some of them, some of them we didn't. We've also formed our amendments. Thus, our committee has prepared a report as well as a review of the amendments. I think that all the conditions are met for the National Assembly to decide on the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much, fellow Kramberger. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, first of all, colleague Sok on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! After repeated postponement of this law, it finally started to deal with the veterinary law so quickly, and I can see that this information on the display, that 65 of us are present, is certainly not true. I hope that the interest in dealing with this law is greater than we are now present in the National Assembly, because the veterinary field is certainly very important. It is not only important for agriculture as a primary activity, it is said for livestock farmers, but it is essentially important for everyone in the country that we make up a large group of consumers of food of animal origin. As has already been said here, veterinary compliance with European standards was first regulated in 1994. At that time, we left a good part of the veterinary activity to a private initiative, and we also highlighted national legislation in this area. We even went so far as to establish two services for national regulation of food control - one was the Veterinary Department of the Republic of Slovenia and the other veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia. These two services worked to a good extent on their own, each in its own way, and as a result, in 1999 we almost experienced a ban on the export of red meat to the countries of the European Union. Those who were already Members of the National Assembly and Members of Parliament, you know that you had to change the law twice at the time, and what we have before us today is called a veterinary law, also the result of all these changes that were made at the time. Then the changes were made further and also new knowledge that took place in the Republic of Slovenia during these six years. Thus, it is not just a matter of adapting to European legislation, but it is a matter of, I could say, knowing that after six years in the veterinary field, which, as I have already said, has undergone quite a few changes, some things would be new. The key novelty of the bill that we have before us is, above all, to arrange for a national veterinary institute in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. Such a solution in the New Slovenia Group seems to us to be the most meaningful, and it is also the cheapest and the most rational for our agriculture, which does not exceed the great costs. The second novelty of the law before us today is that from now on, all doctors and doctors of veterinary medicine will become members of the Veterinary Chamber, not as it has been so far, when this chamber has only been brought together by veterinarians employed in private practice. This bill, therefore, brings a number of improvements at this level, a number of innovations, and it is true that a good part of the veterinary system, including the proposal of this law, remains in the state domain. A good part of veterinary activity is provided under this Act for public powers and a national veterinary network, which in practice means that veterinary activity will be distributed through concessions, it is said, by national regulation, and that this area will continue to remain largely monopolized, you might say, centralised and bureaucratic. What disturbs us in this bill's proposal in our parliamentary group is the fact that as many as 34 articles of this Law of 103 end with the sentence that the Minister with a special rule will deal with more detailed conditions. For we believe that certain matters, such as veterinary conditions for organisations in this area, as well as the basic conditions for processing establishments, should be included in this law or as the Secretariat's comments on the legal affairs of the State Assembly have been made in this regard. We are convinced that with such solutions, the Minister in fact places a great deal of responsibility on himself to regulate these matters, that is, once the law has been adopted in the National Assembly, and that this may also lead to some opposition to such solutions in public. We must be aware that our agriculture is such that our agriculture is not comparable to agriculture in the countries of the Western European Union, especially in countries such as England or the Netherlands, in those countries where they have a high concentration in livestock production. I say just one thing, let's say, in England they have an average concentration on 54 cows' dairy farms per farm, of course we have an average of 3 or 4 dairy farms. It is for this reason that we believe in our parliamentary group that it would not be good in our legislation to follow all the solutions that are now known in the Western European Union and that some of the solutions in our legislation, not only in the veterinary law, but also in other laws, should be regulated in a way that is more acceptable, in a way that preserves our agriculture, and thus, of course, the settlement of our premises and preserves our cultural landscape. If we are literally transcribing matters under these laws from the European Union, then, of course, it can happen to us, on the one hand, to the same livestock affair as Western Europe has and, of course, to the failure of a good part of Slovenian agriculture, which will not bear these great costs. In our parliamentary group, we resent this law, that it does not release the veterinary field of greater competition, that in this law it somehow preserves all former bureaucracy and centralisation. I hope to say that this bureaucracy and centralisation is even greater than in the law in force. For this reason, we have proposed some amendments to ease these areas in some way, and our vote in the end on the whole law will depend on the adoption of these amendments, which we have proposed and which we will especially explain when we reach them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I give my word to my colleague Franco Sušnik. He will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He will be followed by his colleague, Janko Weber, for the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Secretary! We support the adoption of the proposed veterinary law in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Allow me to mention some of the most important elements of the law, which is why we have our support. In doing so, I would first like to stress the need for regulation in order to adapt the legislation of the European Union and the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia to take over the acquis of the European Union. With a view to the introduction of the Veterinary Act, I would particularly like to highlight the need to ensure adequate measures to protect the population against diseases, to prevent them and to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases from animals to humans, and to ensure the health adequacy of raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin, to ensure the health relevance of food of animal origin and to prevent residues of harmful substances in foodstuffs of animal origin. We therefore support the basic purpose of regulating the veterinary field in accordance with the rules and organisation of the veterinary service, as the European Union knows. All of this, however, reminds us of two dilemmas that, in our belief, are crucial for the adoption of this law. This is the city and position of the National Veterinary Institute and we are very concerned about the financial consequences of the implementation of the Law for Breeders and all users of veterinary services. In the parliamentary group, we are very afraid that the implementation of the Veterinary Act will further exacerbate the already poor position of the Slovenian farmer, as well as the position of the Slovenian breeder. Disasters such as drought, hail, BSE, mad cows, hedgehog and foot-and-mouth disease, non-payment of subsidies, late payments in agriculture have made our farmer's already extremely difficult situation worse. This fear was also expressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its third meeting, on 30.1.2001, as part of the extensive discussion of the Veterinary Act, and this was reinforced by a special decision which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should provide the Council with information on the financial implications of the implementation of the law for users of veterinary services." Today, we have already received in the introductory explanation some assurance that the introduction of this law will not entail additional financial obligations for breeders and users of veterinary services, but I do not think that this unnecessary explanation satisfies, nor does it satisfy the fact that, after all, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as the working body that has examined the proposal for a law, has also adopted a decision requiring written information from the Government on the issue raised. With regard to the city and the position of the National Veterinary Institute, we advocate the only smart and rational solution. This is for the functioning of the National Veterinary Institute within the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. In doing so, we would like to point out that this is a consistent form of operation since 1979, when the Slovenian Veterinary Office then joined the veterinary department in order to ensure better staffing and technical conditions for the implementation of the educational, research and technical operational work in the veterinary field. Pursuant to Article 69 of the Veterinary Act 1994, the National Veterinary Institute of Slovenia shall carry out the most demanding veterinary service. The activities of the National Veterinary Institute shall be carried out by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine on the basis of the annual contract and carried out by the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia. I do not think it is necessary to repeat that in the event of the expulsion of the national veterinary institute from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, it would be costly to provide the necessary new premises for the functioning of the National Veterinary Institute. The assessment of the Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, which we could also read in the opinion of the competent committee, Prof. Dr. Pogačnik, is that this would cost us more than 5 billion. The dean particularly points to the impoverishment of the activities of the National Veterinary Institute and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and the poor use of premises, equipment and not least of the employees who carry out this activity. I would also like to remind you of the opinion of the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Jožet Mencinger, who, in connection with Article 57 of the proposed law, notes that the activities and organisational form of the National Veterinary Institute for the continuation of activities carried out by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Ljubljana have been carried out for more than 20 years, in the framework of the basic activity, complementing and increasing the level of implementation of the pedagogical process. It is therefore necessary, in the view of the Rector, to maintain that activity within the veterinary faculty, which is a member of the University of Ljubljana and as such does not affect the autonomy of the University. Once again, I would like to express our strong opposition and once again say that we strongly oppose any other solution and reject attempts to exclude the National Veterinary Institute from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. The possible establishment of a new public institution to manage the activities of the National Veterinary Institute in the future would also require new, gemeyin, in our opinion, unnecessary investment in the construction of new facilities. It would require the allocation of the share of assets from the Faculty of Veterinary Affairs, taking into account also the warning that the State has invested intensively in this institution over the past years. Therefore, we will oppose the proposed amendment to Article 57 or the adoption of an amendment to delete paragraph 2, paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of this Article, and therefore it is unacceptable for us also because, during an extremely unfavourable period of threat to BSE, foot-and-mouth disease, there is no way that the State can afford to lose its operational national veterinary institute in order to lose laboratories for carrying out veterinary diagnostic tests and without the possibility of ensuring the appropriateness of food of animal origin and animal health. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Franz Sušnik. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I ask, will any other parliamentary group then wish to present its views? SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Comrade Webber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United Nations List of Social Democrats, I would like to present our view of this law and, of course, also present views on the adoption of amendments. The fact is that this is an important system law that will, of course, regulate the veterinary field, but, of course, it is also the fact that today, in Europe, they are facing extremely serious problems precisely in the veterinary field, and luckily, we can see that this is not the case once in a while. Of course, this process is also somewhat questionable after these events, because whether it really makes sense now in this extremely sensitive period to change the organization of veterinaryism in Slovenia. These concerns are also due to the fact that the interpretation of the law is given in the entire A4 sheet, but it is a system law and, of course, many of the solutions given in the law do not have some reasoned explanations. In particular, we are missing comparisons of solutions in the countries of the European Union due to these situations, because we could have a real picture of what would be good for us to pass on from these experiences, which, of course, should be maintained so that the veterinary situation in Slovenia can only be improved in the future. Due to these very modest data, a lot of information was provided in the interpretation of this law on the Agriculture Committee and also later in the coordination of the sent groups, when we tried, however, to obtain more information for some of the solutions. But there was also a dilemma, for many times the deviation from what we heard in the words, in the explanations, and if we compared it with the text in the law, it was not always best coordinated. Therefore, in our view, it is very much the responsibility of the proposer for this text, which is before us today, as well as the fact that there are very different views in terms of the proposed organisation of the veterinary system, this responsibility will be even greater. However, the aspects of the profession around the organisation of the veterinary system were mainly exposed to how to organise the veterinary chamber, how and to what extent to carry the tasks to the country and, of course, whether it makes sense to reduce the volume of the private veterinarian, as this also reduces the volume of services on the market, which is the best instrument for achieving prices that would be acceptable to both farmers and veterinarians. The organisation of a national veterinary institute is also a very important change. This brings together a laboratory of the veterinary institute, which has so far carried out this activity in its network. It is also a merger of inspection controls in the body which also carries out administrative procedures. These are the dilemmas of the profession, i.e. the areas in which the profession has given particular attention and has not always been given with uniform answers, and even less consistent interpretations with what I have already said, what is written in the law and what we have heard in these discussions. However, the important question is certainly whether such a way of organising a veterinarian as proposed today - it is a fact that a large part of the veterinary activity will be maintained, that the volume of the private veterinarian will be reduced - whether this will affect the more creative development of the veterinary in our view, because it is, however, a State administration that is usually more difficult to adapt to situations that are changing very rapidly than we have heard, in the veterinary field, than a private person or a group that needs to manage a certain amount of activity. With all these concerns, we have decided to support the applicant's decisions. This is how we support the government's amendments to this law and committee and, of course, we also support the decisions that we have agreed on in the coalition, i.e. the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups that are in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group will support the Veterinary Act with the amendments proposed by the Government and the Committee and with those amendments that are aligned within the framework of the coalition parties. We agree with this bill because it follows the rationalisation and transparency of the veterinary service. We also support the establishment of a National Veterinary Institute within the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, and we also support that all doctors and doctors of veterinary medicine will become members and members of the Veterinary Chamber, which will be transformed. I would not like to justify this proposal in more detail because my colleagues from the parliamentary groups have already given me very detailed reasons for these amendments to the law. Otherwise, we estimate that if you want, the law is modernly written. Some believe that it is too much for the Minister to regulate certain matters by means of sub-laws. We believe that the things that change very quickly in the veterinary field are things that change very quickly in some areas, so of course this is much more practical if you want to not have to interfere with the law again and in those segments you can change the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Juban has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Liberal Democracy Group has been working for a long time on the proposal of the Veterinary Act, a rapid procedure. We have met with many interest groups who have tried to follow their suggestions in this law in any way they may have been affected and have supplemented them in their form to be incorporated into this law. Finally, we found that despite the various comments that were made during the drafting process of this law, there was a desire to reject the law in some way in order to recast it or transpose it into a new text, with a view to a large number of comments. Today we are assessing that we can, in spite of everything, adopt the law and be supported by the Group of Members. There was a lot of talk about the variant of the establishment of a national and veterinary institute, which partially assumes the tasks of the existing institution, which is hereby terminated. After various discussions, at the end of the debate, we Members of liberal democracy signed the option that the National Veterinary Institute should remain within the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and thus perform its function. There were a lot of comments from the Veterinary Chamber and its reshaping. We have before us an amendment form that we consider to be harmonised and thus suitable for admission. Various inspection organisations in the country have also encouraged us to discuss here the relevance or possibility of organising such an inspection within the veterinary administration. However, the text so far, in the veterinary field, leaves an inspection within the administration and we have accepted this in some ways, as well in some cases elsewhere, although we estimate that the option is not the best, but here it will be. There was also something to do with professional refinement. In the amendments we have proposed some amendments and have thus finalised the text of the law itself in a chapter that we estimate will then be acceptable. As we will vote for each supplement, it is not possible to say this at this time. The Group of Members - of course - has an orientation on how some of these solutions, which I have announced, will be supported or rejected, and on the rest of them - of course - we will decide against what we have agreed on in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to present their position? Please! On behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't want to repeat everything that's been said. I am already joining these opinions, which have already been delivered by Members or by the Group of Members, in particular coalition parties, and by others. We'll support the law. We believe that it is modern and that it is essential for Slovenia to have it at this time. We will support the amendments also supported by the government on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the amendments of this Committee and those made by the parliamentary groups of coalition parties. So you don't have to repeat again what's already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Pohorc, from DeSUS. Anyone else? On behalf of the Group of Members, no one else. Then I conclude this part of the debate. There are no written statements for discussion. Since they are not available, I limit the debate of an individual Member to five minutes. So, I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I don't see any particular interest in the debate. I therefore conclude the general debate. We're moving to second reading. This is for discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will be taken if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I ask that we vote on this proposal. Of the 62 Members present, 38 voted in favour of this proposal, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. The debate and decision-making will be conducted on the basis of a material which has a date of 27.3. I'm asking you to check it out because it's a new material. First, the material was dated 1.3. The material labelled 1.3 is therefore not appropriate. The material bearing the mark 27.3., that is, the date of 27 March, shall be appropriate. Review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for the Veterinary Act - second reading. And we're going straight to Article 1. Just to make it easier for us, I would like to warn you that we have three amendments under Article 1. We're moving on to the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 1, point one, the first amendment to this Article. Who wants the word to Article 1 to the three amendments? [[Nobody.]] I do not see any interest in the debate, so I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote, to a decision on the first amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. Of the 62 present, 40 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. Of the 61 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. And we move on to the third amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. And now we are voting on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We're moving on to Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 39 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we have accepted the amendment to Article 2. Now we are voting on Article 2 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 60 present, 43 voted in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 3. Article 3 - so much to warn you, and if you can look at your material - we have ten amendments. So I am putting first Article 3 with the amendments to the debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to draw attention to the Government's amendment under point 9 and suggest that until the third reading, it be reconsidered whether it is best to bring together, under the word "turn", the buildings and premises in which animals are raised, as well as the premises in which food, products, raw materials and waste are processed or processed. In fact, I am afraid that, on the basis of the function of an establishment responsible for both the production of raw materials and for the processing and processing of foodstuffs, there may be, in practice, rules which, in the case of plants intended solely for the production of animals, will provide for more binding criteria to meet the conditions for raising animals in general. Therefore, in some ways, I would suggest to the Government that, by the third reading, it should be reconsidered whether it would not make sense in some way to demarcate these different links in two different paragraphs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Excuse me, Mr. Rokavec, Article 10?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Ten.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	There'll be no misunderstanding. Any other Members and Members? No one else. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The Government withdraws the second amendment to Article 3 because it is meaningfully summarised in the third amendment proposed by the Committee and supported by the Government. As for the 10th, we will consider by the government until the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Who else would like a word with the amendments and, of course, with Article 3? Now, the second amendment is the government's withdrawal. Well, we're not gonna vote on him, but we're gonna vote on everyone else. Good. Then can we close the debate? Yes, I am closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First amendment to Article 3. We're voting, please! Of the 60 present, 37.3 votes. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment under number one to Article 3 has been adopted. We're passing because the second is withdrawn, to the amendment under order number three. We're voting, please! Of the 60 present, 39 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are moving to the vote under order number four. We're voting, please! Of the 61 present, 41 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number five. We're voting. Of the 61 present, 41 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The fifth amendment is related to the amendment to Article 50 under order number 1 and to Article 72 under order number 1. We'll keep an eye on that. Just a minute. If you could take a look at it, please, paragraph 50. Article 50, order number 1. The articles are linked, so we can vote on the first amendment to Article 50. Let's vote. Of the 61 present, 38 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we have accepted the amendment to Article 50. We are now voting on Article 50 as a whole. We won't be late when we get to him. [[...]] I'm sorry. Rule 72, please. That's on page 25. This is under order number 1 at Article 72. So we're voting on this amendment. Of the 61 present, 37 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 72 has been adopted. Now we're going back to the other side of the amendment under order number six. We're voting, please. Of the 62 votes in favour, 41.3 were against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the sixth amendment to this Article has been adopted. We're moving on to the 7th Amendment. We're voting. Of the 62 present were 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to the eighth amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 62 present, 43 voted in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the eighth amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to the ninth amendment. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 43 voted in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the ninth amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to the tenth amendment. We're voting, please! Of the 62 present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the tenth amendment has been adopted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 38 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We're moving on to Section 4. We have three amendments under Article 4, and the second amendment is withdrawn. So, I am opening a debate on Article 4 and the amendments. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. So, I would like these amendments to stop a little bit and try to redevelop these amendments, namely Mr Rokavac's amendment, this is the third amendment to Article 4. Mr. Rokavec in his amendment - I thought he would explain it himself - suggests that in paragraph 10 of Article 10, the text of "indemnity of 16" should be deleted. Articles." So, Article 16, if you look at the draft law that we're considering, it's about issuing veterinary certificates. The diction of this amendment is that the issue of veterinary certificates would not be linked to the spatial distribution of concessions, but that the treating veterinarian could be said to be the veterinarian who chose him as a curativator in his animal, so that this veterinarian could at the same time issue veterinary certificates for animals on the market at the same time as the breeder. At the moment, this matter is in practice so regulated that concessions are granted for the issue of veterinary certificates and then it happens that the animal health veterinarian in an area cannot issue veterinary certificates in another area. Such a solution in practice seems good to me and, of course, represents an increase in costs, and also what I said earlier in the opening argument contributes to bureaucracy in this area. It would be very good if these third amendments were accepted. We have also tabled an amendment in Novi Slovenija, which is written under number 2, means the same solution, but we later withdrew it because we were convinced that Mr Rokavac's amendment as a coalition member has a greater chance of being admitted to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for the words. Mr Sok already beat me to the punch, and he's already explained something. But there is something else I would like to say to this amendment, or to this statement of this amendment, which I think may not actually be comprehensive. A colleague of Shirtz's has a first amendment and it would probably be good to accept it in order to open the article. In fact, I'm pointing to the following. In practice, the following problems will arise. In fact, so-called breeders of animals have a selected pet veterinarian for the basic treatment of animals. By granting a public network concession, however, there will be problems in areas where, for example, competition has already been introduced so far, another veterinary outpatient will issue a certificate in some way, but - of course - does not manage the basic health activity of the animal holder concerned. And there will be, in my opinion, conflicts or conditions by a veterinary clinic that will have concessions for these public powers. This is a key problem in this, the so-called sixth paragraph, which refers to the provision of Article 16 on the granting of health certificates. I therefore, in some ways, reiterate that it would be appropriate to reconsider this point until the third reading. Indeed, there will be conflicts, but I am sure that we have to unleash competition in the veterinary field in some way. Actually, I'm actually wondering where they're going to go then in some way, whether we're going to even allow new veterinarians who are going to be trained to have a fair lunch on the market and also on this part of the market. And there's another moment. I'm sure the pet veterinarian can best assess animal health correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In fact, Article 4 - I certainly hope to say that the Government supports it, although it has not stated here I apologize, the first amendment to Article 4 of the Third Amendment to Article 4, and I fear that this is a slightly different understanding. [[...]] [[...]] In fact, we feel differently as proposing. We believe that this is a health certificate which is linked to Article 10. Furthermore, a concession which can be granted on the basis of an order signed to that effect by the Minister is a concession whereby the Minister prescribes that those tasks referred to in Article 10 or that investigation, referred to in Article 10, may be carried out on the basis of a concession free of charge to producers for breeders. This means that, according to our understanding, if adopted, as proposed in the third amendment to Article 4, it would in fact be impossible to grant concessions and, in fact, all these investigations should be carried out on the basis of the services specifically paid by the user.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	That's all I'd explain. I'm not saying this is the best solution. However, I explained that there could be conflicts in practice with regard to the example I mentioned. And this is this fear, which in some ways also excused us to seek solutions in some way. But I'm not saying she's the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary is talking about a medical certificate. It's not a medical certificate, it's a veterinary certificate. But we're only going to get to this article. Look - it goes into practice, I'll try again to simplify the matter. In practice, some breeder chooses his own pet veterinarian. He's doing all of his veterinary procedures. However, if we adopt this article as proposed by this Act, this same veterinarian must not write it to him, although his animal, his breeding, is best known, must not write him a veterinary certificate, but a pamor for that measure should call another veterinarian who has a concession for the issue of veterinary certificates for that area. I think that such a bureaucratic solution is unnecessary and that by adopting this amendment, Mr Rokavac, we would actually do the greatest service to our farmers, our farmers on the ground. That's on one side. On the other hand, it would obviously reduce costs, as there would no longer be a need for you to go to the same yard as two veterinary doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with the opinion, in part I agree with the opinion delivered by Comrade Sok. In practice, however, we need to say how this is done. Look, someone who's a pet veterinarian -- as my colleague Sok said -- can't write a health certificate because he doesn't have a licence there. And then whoever has the concession, somehow, doesn't want him, or doesn't want to, says, "I can't write you a health certificate because I don't know what he's giving you, how that fellow who's healing you, what he did with the animal." By looking at it from this point of view; those who have concessions in an area have an insight into the results being carried out, i.e. those tests and analyses carried out on the basis of the concession, and no doubt have more information about the barn than is happening in the barn. I think that the matter that colleague Sok and colleague Rokavec wish to solve could be resolved in such a way that we could strictly prescribe a logbook in which all treating veterinarians should register an intervention in the yard or in the barn, and the logbook that is now prescribed, would then be the basis for the issue of a health certificate. If this can be done in this way - I don't know, the article is open anyway, perhaps the minister will be able to explain how we would do it, or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I propose that, despite everything that both of you are proposing a change until the third reading, we try to re-examine the open dilemma and perhaps evaluate it. If I may only point out, this is an animal health certificate and, in fact, conflict of interest is very common here; it is said to be a so-called domestic veterinarian and a certified veterinarian. In fact, it is the concessional veterinarian who is responsible for the State to write an independent animal health certificate on the basis of the concession. And there may be conflicts of interest in this case because it is also in the case of a domestic veterinarian in terms of some kind of economic interdependence. However, I really suggest that we look once again at the third reading with both groups and once again clean up that the solution that would have been adopted would have been as meaningful, pure and practical as possible, while at the same time preventing any incorrect implementation procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe help with further work on that law. I do not know if the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture informed this assembly that we have come up with a proposal whereby the debate and decision on this law, after a second hearing in a rapid procedure, should be suspended in order to prepare a copy of this law and any additional corrections, complemented by the law until further third reading in a rapid procedure. I would also like to say that we would not be looking at some solutions here at the assembly, but at least those that cannot be incorporated into the law at this time, and that the open questions that may arise after the adoption of the amendments that are before us are then we are trying to resolve until the third hearing, which is not actually possible today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You have this decision on page 34, and we have 30 pages to go. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on Article 4. We have two amendments to vote on. First amendment to Article 4. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 36.1 voted against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under order number 3 to Article 4. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 24, 17 voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we are voting on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 38, 2 votes. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 6. There is only one amendment to Article 6. Who wants to discuss this article and the amendment? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 6. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 38 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 6 has been adopted. Let us also vote on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 59 present, 39 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 6 has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 7. You have this amendment on a special sheet of paper, if you please look for it. This is the amendment of Mr Janko Vebra, Member of the United List, on 28 March. Did you manage to find this material? I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 7. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] May I close this debate on this amendment? I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 15, 16 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment has not been accepted. It's all about the 7th. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 35 votes against 1. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted I'm moving on to Article 8. We have six amendments to Article 8, with the fifth amendment withdrawn. I am opening the debate on Article 8 and the amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would like to explain the amendment tabled by our Group of Members to Article 8, paragraph 4. Article 8, paragraph 4, states "legal and natural persons engaged in breeding - etc. - must report this breed to the nearest veterinary organisation." With our amendment, we propose that, after these words, the breeders must report the breed, they should add "if they are sorting animals for public consumption". Why are we suggesting this? We propose that the fourth paragraph of this amendment be aligned in some way with the sixth paragraph, which already speaks of pet breeding. In practice, this would mean that if our amendment had been adopted, only those breeders who regulate animals for public consumption should be referred to as markets. We have, we need to know, large small breeds, which are even seasonal - I do not know the whole area of Slovenia, but I know the good area of the Slovenian mountains and Haloz. So, there are breeds of two pigs or some sheep or two goats or a pair of rabbits. It makes no sense for us to report all these breeds to the nearest veterinary organization. On the one hand, this would be a burden for these small breeds, and on the other hand, of course, also a burden for a veterinary organisation that could keep a register of all these breeds. These registers are changing, the breeds are changing, and if we want to simplify these matters a little bit, it would be good to accept this amendment. This would not endanger, I would say, this law, but not livestock, as such, because these little breeds of their animals still acquire in larger breeds, in breeds that line animals for the market, and through this, of course, control over all animals in countries would also be exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. This article, which we are talking about, essentially refers to animal infectious diseases under II. in the marriage. This is precisely why it is extremely demanding and important, which is why the Government considers that the fourth amendment to Article 8 cannot be confirmed in any way, since infectious diseases can occur anywhere, in any herd, in any breed and can endanger the entire population. This means that we are not talking about anything else here but the area of infectious animal diseases. And the most dangerous can be unregistered breeds, even if they are small and for themselves, for private use, because they can be a source of infectious diseases, unless they are in the system, like all other breeds. Although we believe that, and it is true that it can pose a problem for someone to carry out this procedure. However, we believe that it would be dangerous if we did not have proper control over these breeds. I am also only explaining to Article 5 why the Government does not support the fifth amendment to Article 8. [[A voice from behind.]] Is he retired? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sok and Mr. Juban then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	I thank the Minister for this additional explanation. I have to say that I actually agree with him that this is a problem. Only this legal provision, as it says, in practice, in my opinion - I say this from my experience, eight-year-olds - cannot be implemented in this way. We cannot expect and demand that all breeders who line up a pair of rabbits or two pigs or something like that report these breeds. It is true, however, that any animal can pose a threat to the spread of infectious diseases, including the lover’s disease set out in Article 6. And if, in Article 6, we have excluded from this declaration of breeding provision, I am personally convinced that without the risk of spreading infectious diseases, we can also eliminate those small breeds that produce or manage animals exclusively for themselves and do not place them on the market. Well, that's my opinion. Of course, we will not be sad, even if the amendment will not be adopted, but I am sure that such an article, as it is written in practice, in our livestock business, which I once again say is not possible to compare with livestock in some England or the Netherlands, that it is not possible to do so in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would gladly support this amendment, even if it is suggested by a veterinarian who probably knows the situation well in his own way in the environment in which he worked. However, the time in which we are currently living is very dangerous for the spread of certain infectious diseases and the stories we are pursuing in Europe can occur in the future. To the extent that we do not have this, we may later be able to correct the law in this direction in order to simplify things, especially because we have a lot of comments due to the high veterinary services in the field of animal rearing. At that time, however, I have not been able to support this and I would like the text to remain as it is in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Any other Members and Members? [[No one else.]] Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I come from the countryside myself, and it is quite clear to me that this is very difficult and people will take this very hard to accept and it will be difficult to accept. Only, for the first time, should, for example, for pigs, be legally designated by the EU by the end of 2002 - from then on - and all pigs should be marked in the same way as for bovine animals, which we have until 30.6. this year's transitional period. Another time. Small breeds of pigs are the main potential source of both foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever, as they are mainly fed by non-smokers, and this can be a potentially dangerous source. So we think it would make sense for everyone to make that application. At the final stage, the European Union will also commit us to this. If not right now, in a year and a half. I think that, as Mr Juban said, especially the danger of the moment and events in Europe is such that it in some way dictates the implementation of everything preventive, which is only possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else want words? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate by Article 8. We're moving to the vote. So, as we say, we have six amendments here, the fifth is withdrawn. We begin with the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The first amendment was adopted. The amendment is linked to the amendments under order number 2 and 3. We're voting on the second amendment. Of the 56 present, 37 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote on the third amendment. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 40 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to the fourth amendment. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 14 votes against 28. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the last amendment under order number six. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 40, 2 votes. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the sixth amendment has been adopted. We are now voting on Article 8 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 40 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 8 is fully adopted. We move on to article 11 where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. Of the 58 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 11 as a whole. Of the 58 present, 39 voted against, one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 11 has been adopted. We move on to Article 16, where we have three amendments. The first and third amendments have been withdrawn, leaving only one amendment to Article 16, and this is an amendment under order number 2. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok and Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Let me explain these amendments. We propose that the third paragraph delete the words "the animal’s health or certification shall be demonstrated by a veterinary certificate." We are convinced that the veterinary certificate is not a health document, but an identification document. We have written in the current law that when animals go on the market, a health certificate shall be issued for animals. With this law, which we are considering today, we return to what we had before 1994, that is to say that the animals on the market are accompanied by a veterinary certificate, or those who are older, you will remember that we sometimes called it the pet passport, or since the time of Mary Teresa forward, at least in our town they have said, 'fik post'. We are confident that the veterinary certificate as such cannot confirm the health status of animals, because if you want to confirm animal health by means of a veterinary certificate, then you should definitely carry out a clinical examination of animals, but also of certain laboratory tests. Only on such a basis could the veterinary certificate in fact be used to record the health status of this certificate. However, since this is not being done in practice, it seems to us that without the great harm this word "health status" under this Article would be drawn up and left only "veterinary certificate". Such a veterinary certificate could then be issued by a treating veterinarian or a certified veterinarian without a doubt, i.e. one who knows the epizootic situation in a particular barn could also issue at the seat of his veterinary organisation, which would undoubtedly lead to an appreciation of the costs of issuing veterinary certificates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Given that this amendment, which I have withdrawn, has been confirmed by my mother's working body, the government has not supported it, I would like a brief explanation, which is also valid for two other amendments, which were confirmed by my proposal by my mother's working body and not supported by the government. I decided to withdraw the amendments after a more detailed study of the problem along with the mags. The blacksmith who explained to me that the adoption of these amendments would jeopardize the integrity of the law and make it difficult to manage the issue in this area. On the other hand, I have been assured that the issue that I have been trying to address by introducing these amendments will be resolved in a different way, with instructions from the Minister and by means of sub-legislative acts. So I am giving this explanation because at the same time I am also thanking the support committee. And I owe this explanation why the amendments are withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Who wants a word? Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would also explain why the government does not support the second amendment to Article 29 because it is essentially a different perception of what we wanted to explain here. In fact, it is a health certificate that must be issued to every animal, and this health certificate essentially confirms that the animal is healthy. It's not a passport in the classical sense. In fact, it is possible to include in a health certificate diseases that do not prohibit transport. That's supposed to make a difference here. But they can be, say, a subject of affection for the breeders.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Well, I have to correct Mr. Minister. Well, I'm not talking about a medical certificate to tell you again. Article 16 after a new proposal for a law speaks of a veterinary certificate. And I understand a veterinary certificate different from a health certificate. The veterinary certificate is, in my profound belief - and here you will not be able to convince me of another - identification document confirming the origin of the animals is the right place, where the animals originate, and the identification marks of the animals. It's her ear number, or any other description. So that's what this is all about. And without prejudice, the word that animal health is certified by a veterinary certificate could be used to draw this out, which could also make the issue of veterinary certificates significantly cheaper. I also wanted to explain this to the committee, and I failed to explain. I hope that I will not be able to explain this in this national assembly, too, because I see that the Members of liberal democracy are not involved in this at all, they are always talking to each other, and it is also difficult to develop in this national council someone - I would say - a debate in which we would listen and "try" together to find out what is really true and what is not. I'll say it one more time and I won't talk about it again. The veterinary certificate does not at all confirm the health status of animals, as if animals were to be clinically examined and not only clinically, but also laboratoryly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I hope Mr Sok's criticism will linger a little. Mr. Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Since Mr Soko and I are colleagues, however, I must use this opportunity to explain to him that the veterinary certificate is a health certificate. And it has nothing to do with the passport issued when the animals are identified. It used to be, and the case is that they still have this system in Britain today, which is why they have problems. Since animals have not been medically checked and determined that they may have infectious diseases that could be transmitted, they have been transported far across the foothills and the foothills. It is already in force in the Republic of Slovenia to issue a health certificate, so it is also called a document confirming whether or not infectious diseases are present in the region. With the current dictatorship, we continue to endure this and that is also the purpose. We separate and will always separate the identification document which is prescribed for individual animal species at this time only for bovine animals, in the future also for pigs and sheep and goats, from the health certificate by which we confirm a completely different definition than identification and where the animal originates. These two documents will be separate because we have or do not have a passport or only get it when we are on our way. However, the health certificate may also be carried out for other purposes, and in this case I would like to point out that a health certificate may be issued even when milk is given from a particular property because it must be subject to medical examination or determination of health conditions and such a health certificate or veterinary certificate is also issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We can conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 16. As we know, we only have one amendment under order number two. So the debate is closed and we can vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 18 voted against 23 Members and Members. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] The amendment under order number two has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 58 present, 37 voted in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I'm moving on to Article 20. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	Again, thank you for your word. In the current veterinary law, we have a provision that animal veterinary checks should be carried out when the animal goes outside the administrative unit. That's not the best thing to do, though. Of course, it would be better if we already had regions in Slovenia at this time and were provided in the law that veterinary and sanitary supervision should be carried out in animals when they are on the market when outside certain regions. Why is that? Because the epidemiological situation regarding infectious diseases in the region is more or less similar. However, the current bill stipulates that veterinary and sanitary supervision should be carried out for each traffic. In practice, this will, of course, mean exhilaration and increased bureaucracy; and this is also one of the reasons why I initially said that this veterinary law is additionally bureaucratic. So the amendment has been tabled for this purpose if, of course, it were accepted that the situation in this area would remain about the same as in terms of costs, of course, as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you. It may look like the government is opposed to any proposal, but this has nothing to do with Mr Sok proposing it, but purely with other things. In fact, we believe that it is necessary not to support this amendment again, because essentially it is also within the administrative unit and within the administrative unit, for example, infectious diseases can also spread. The administrative units are simply some administrative division of the state for a special purpose, while the infectious disease can spread within one and the same village, and it would actually be too dangerous to delete any kind of obligation that this also applies to the movement of animals within the administrative unit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Just a brief replica of what Mr. Secretary said. I don't even understand that the government opposes what the opposition has proposed. That is just the position taken in this law. But I'm more concerned about the economic situation of our livestock farmers. Such measures undoubtedly undermine the economic situation of livestock farmers. If farmers on the one hand receive certain direct payments, which we are now introducing, and on the other hand we are receiving exacerbations through different laws, then you, Mr Minister, have to say that what you give them on the one hand, on the other hand, pull them back out of your pockets. That's the problem with the state! And if we do this in all areas, then I can tell you when Slovenia will be in the European Union, when we have all these thousands of regulations for this area, as far as we are concerned, then in Slovenia we will have 999 farmers, one rule more than farmers. And that should be the concern and concern of all of us, not just the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Any other Members and Members? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. This is an extremely professional law that has nothing to do with whether it proposes a position or opposition. The government does not support a whole bunch of Members' proposals, so this has nothing to do with it. If any marriage does not exist in these articles, which are extremely professional and can be viewed differently. But the fact is, in this law, it is possible for a minister to also prescribe a fully minimum cost of service for an area. This means that it can prescribe, by means of its document, such or different prices which are different. However, I would like to point out that what I have been saying over the last three months, the cheapest and most effective agricultural policy measure, is strictly preventive protection, even during this period, and it always turns out to be cheaper than anything else that needs to be done later. Also what we are doing now is preventive, and, say, the destruction of bone flour and the like, this is actually an extremely high cost for a country that we are not currently passing on to breeders, but I think it is better and cheaper than the long-term consequences that could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Slavko Sok, I know you've been dealing with these kinds of problems for a long time as a veterinary inspector, but I still couldn't agree with your explanation. You know, no disease knows where the boundaries of the administrative unit are, where the border of the region is, where the boundaries of the economic property are, or whatever you want. For purely professional reasons, I won't support it. I think that comparison with this, subsidies and this tax is not comparable, because if this regulation is adopted, this can be preventive, but if we accept this matter, we can cause very high costs elsewhere in this way. Because, for example, a neighbor in another administrative unit can have one infectious disease, and others who are neighbors can't and can't move this thing. That's purely professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] There's no more debate. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. So we're at Article 20, and we have one amendment. Let's vote on this amendment, please. Of the 60 present, 15, 27 voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the amendment to Article 20 has not been adopted. We still vote on the 20th Article in its entirety. Let's vote please. Of the 60 present, 36.8 votes. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 20 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 21. At article 21, we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 21. Let's vote please. Of the 60 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the 21st. That's right. This is said, since the article has been completely amended, we do not need to vote on Article 21 again. We're moving on to Article 24. Here are the three amendments. I am opening a debate on Article 24 and the amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 24. Let's vote please. Of the 59 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The first amendment was adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 41 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. And the third amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We still vote on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 41 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 24 is fully adopted. We're moving on to Article 29. We have two amendments here. If the first one is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. Who wants a word on Article 29? I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let us vote on the first amendment to Article 29. Let's vote please. Of the 60 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. So the vote on the other is irrelevant. In fact, Article 29 was also adopted, since the first amendment is written as follows: Article 29 is amended to read as follows: In fact, Article 29 is also adopted in its entirety and there is no need to vote on it. We're moving on to paragraph 30. We have two amendments here. As in the previous article, if the first amendment is adopted, the second amendment is irrelevant. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote first on the first amendment. Of the 60 present, 38 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that this first amendment has been adopted. The second is therefore irrelevant. As the proposal to delete the article does not require a vote on Article 30 either. We're moving on to the 31st. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate by article 31 and move on to the vote. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 31. Of the 60 present, 35 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] The amendment has been adopted with this. However, since this is a whole article, there is no need for a full vote on Article 31. We're moving on to the new 31st. I am opening the debate on this article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the new Article 31st. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 35 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 31 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 46. We have three amendments under Article 46, and the first amendment has been withdrawn. This is what we are saying, we are only talking about the second and third amendments to Article 46. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Retreat the second one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	Mr. Juban withdraws the second amendment. Thank you. So we're left with a third. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the third amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 35 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 46 as a whole. Of the 58 present, 28 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 47. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	We'll check the presence. I'd like you to look first at your neighbors, who aren't there, what's with the cards. Then we'll figure out what the presence is. So far, there are 46 and 44 of us. Let's look at colleagues who aren't, whether the cards are in or not, so we can figure out what the situation is. It's exactly 45 of us. If we get another card, we won't have to interrupt. 46. It's 45 again. Please, this is changing very quickly. Things are almost as good as bids now. If it changes that way, we're gonna have to stop this meeting for a few minutes. That's what it looks like. Let's first determine the presence of pressure on the voice button. Now the situation is changing again. Good. Let's just wait a minute. I find that there are 48 cards in the hall and I believe that we are final and that we can proceed. We stayed at 47. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word with this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment and move on to the vote on the first amendment to Article 47. Let's vote. Of the 48 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 47 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 29 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 29.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 47 is also fully adopted. Then we have an amendment that is linked to chapter V, one amendment. Who wants a word? Please, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the amendment to Chapter V, I personally believe that the solution proposed by the government proposal to introduce financing for animal health through fees and other costs is to introduce a so-called fund to finance the minimum level of animal health care and the public veterinary service, that this solution is, in fact, entirely in line with such arrangements in the European Union. Look, if I just tell you how it is with us now. The government has ensured to the veterinary institute that the tests on bovinospongeform and cephalopathy will be paid, but it has not, of course, done so yet or could not do so. If we had such a fund as is proposed here, we could, of course, finance such and such matters from this fund. There can also be a different situation when, in the interest of another country, such or similar matters relating to infectious diseases will be co-financed by other countries and probably no country will put these finances into the so-called integrated budget. This was a misunderstanding. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance insisted on this proposal and this proposal is here. Personally, I do not think we should support the amendment to the title and not this first amendment in order to delete Article 48. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. Who wants another word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. So, I kind of missed the connection, so it's the title and the 48th. I agree with what it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	And 49th, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	No, article 49 comes in later. We are now discussing the title to Chapter V or also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	About the title to Chapter V. However, you have a note stating that the amendment is related to the amendment to Article 48 under order number 1 and Article 49 under order number 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I agree with what the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has said. We have already had such a fund to finance animal health care. When we had this fund, these things were going on just like in some developed country. Since this fund is no longer available, there has been an eternal complication of payment appropriations, either compensation or the minimum level of animal health care. I also propose and urge myself to vote both against the draft title and the amendment to Article 48. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Chapter V, Title V of Chapter. There's an amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 15 voted against 26 Members and Members. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 26.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 48. There's only one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Except Mr. Anderlich, of course. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 48. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 9 votes against 28 Members and Members. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment to Article 48 is not accepted. We still vote on Article 48. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 31.4 voted against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against four.]] Article 48 is adopted. We're moving on to Article 49. We have an amendment here. I open the debate on Article 49. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 49 and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 49. We're voting! Of the 50 present, 27 voted against 11 Members and Members. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 49 as a whole. Of the 50 present, 29-12 voted against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that Article 49 is fully adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 50. If you remember, we have already voted on the amendment under order number one and adopted it. Now we are only voting on the 50th article in its entirety. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 40 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 50 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 52. Here we have four amendments, with the amendment under order number one withdrawn, so we will discuss and vote on the amendments under order numbers 2, 3 and 4. Amendments 2 and 3 shall also be excluded. I am opening the debate on Article 52. Who wants a word? Mr. Potts. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I will very briefly want to show you on a specific case where it leads and how precisely this law is prepared. In principle, two or three colleagues have already warned that this law leads to the full centralisation of the veterinary profession and to a substantial reduction in the possibility of veterinary activity being carried out as a market activity. Therefore, in line with the opinion of the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia, which has said this several times in writing and in communications, I support the amendment of Mrs Marie Possonec, which leaves at least a few more activities to repair by market principles, but not to increase the part of the activities that are the activities of the public veterinary service. On the one hand, in the first paragraph, with the support of the Government or at the request of the Government, we significantly strengthen activities that can be carried out by independent veterinarians. At the same time, the parent's body, and the government, indeed, does not, but the mother's working body, which would be understood to be truly harmonised in the coalition, but I hope that it is not, we support the amendments of Mr Geza Juban, who for all those activities that remain exceptionally in the capacity of independent veterinarians, we allow them to be carried out by farmers themselves. I will see how this law is accurate, read what can be done by farmers themselves after paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 52: provision of veterinary services; advice in animal health care, food pathology and animal rearing from a veterinary point of view; veterinary training and education of animal owners in relation to veterinary activities; examination of hygiene conditions of animal and hygiene establishments in other facilities and facilities in terms of animal and human health; hospital treatment of animals, the issuing of medicines and disinfectants, disinfection and deration. I hope you don't have to read any more. This law is about that precise. I have little hope that we will be able to fix it in the third reading. I must say, however, there is very little hope, for this law has been made in a way that laws should not be made. I do not say that we are primarily guilty of being Members of the National Assembly. At least because it is impossible to decide on such a professionally difficult law on the basis of this or another majority in the National Assembly. It is the government, the ministry and, above all, the veterinary administration that has drawn up a law that I think is unresistible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Mrs. Possonec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. When considering the law on the committee, I have always pointed out the non-compliance of this law, and I have tried to get support, which I have not received or very little. In this amendment too, I would point out that these activities can be carried out by veterinary organisations outside the public veterinary service, which is actually being carried out today. The intervention of the State in this area is completely unnecessary and only an additional administration. In accordance with European Union legislation, the authorisation to carry out this activity shall be issued by a decision of the Veterinary Chamber. Despite the anticipated change in the veterinary system, which will necessarily follow the entry into the European Union, the Code of Good Veterinary Practice will define the right to such a part in accordance with the guidelines. Thus, support for this amendment would be in line with European expectations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. See, in the introduction, it has been said and explained that the concept of this law is such that most veterinary activities are carried out under public authority. From the point of view of the user, it is therefore irrelevant whether these public powers are conferred on him by the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or by the Veterinary Chamber. So I'm speaking from the user's point of view. I think that the whole concept of this law is really under-appreciated by the user. This was somehow tried to correct Mr. Juban with his amendment - this is an amendment under number four. But I'm sure in this amendment he wrote too many powers. It would be much better if this Article, under Article 52, listed what activities animal owners can carry out on their own. Such activities are already some of them today, if listed, surely this is castration in pigs, in younger categories, then this is dehelmentation, it is true to eliminate parasites, it is also vitaminisation and ferromenisation in pig production. I think that the minister who is here could be affected and recommended that by the third reading of this law the government study and prepare a proposal in this direction so that this could be included, because otherwise this law will go completely past animal breeders. Actually, these are the ones that make this law work. Some are convinced that we are writing it because of the profession, but I think it should be written primarily because of the needs of the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Personally, I do not think that none of these four amendments proposed deserve the support of the National Assembly. Indeed, the fourth amendment was adopted by the Committee, which does not mean that it has to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment under order number four myself. I associate myself with those opinions that certain activities should be entrusted to the breeder. Some of the activities listed in the tables in these articles can best be carried out by the breeder. And do not increase the cost of breeding animals by unnecessary means. Here I see some feuds trying to protect themselves too much, too much to move on to certain things, if I say so, some things that the breeders knew and they know how to do very well. Personally, I think we should actually trust the foster father more and add some of the activities listed in the amendment under number 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Any other Members? Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I tabled the amendment on the basis of the various initiatives that I had announced when I was representing the Group of Members, and I said that the various stakeholders had contacted the Group of Members, members of the Committee or whatever else we called them. In this part - exactly what colleague Jerovšek mentioned before me - if we want to reduce costs, we can achieve exactly that with the fourth amendment. By reading consistently, this supplement, which states that "veterinary activities for which no public authority is required, may be carried out on their animals by the holder or by an employee, if he has adequate education and fulfils the conditions set by the Minister" and so on. This is said to be no fictitious matter, but precisely under the conditions prescribed and prescribed by the Minister, those who also prescribe conditions for the rest of the professional services. The fact is that some large companies that have many animals and have their own professional services, their veterinarians, will not see that someone for money will carry out activities that they can carry out on their own without harming anyone, to the contrary. And, of course, then veterinary technical and auxiliary works, including under the conditions prescribed by the Minister. Nothing to think of, nothing to pass, under controlled conditions, under prescribed conditions, as the Minister prescribes. This is not what we are dealing with today and will, of course, be left to the Minister, probably the veterinary administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm really not an expert on it myself, so I read the texts on purpose. What you gentlemen are telling me is something completely different. Mr Sok spoke of specific cases, I would hope to say that these cases were not envisaged at all as an opportunity for a farmer to carry out them because they belong to a part where only the public service could be. And that's the problem. What Mr. Juban is saying is not true. Here, the Minister merely determines what appropriate education and other conditions he must fulfil. I agree. But the cases are listed. I've read these cases, and I didn't want to read them to the end, which just shows how things are written badly, vaguely, and I'm going to say something worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	I don't know if I understand Mr. Potts correctly. He says that it would not be possible to carry out what is under Amendment 4. Is that what you were going to say? [[A voice from behind.]] That's what the amendment says. I consider it personal, but I also support the Ministry's professional solutions. However, what is mentioned in these two articles, 64 activities, I assure you that there is a lot of nonsense in here that irritates animal breeding. And that's unnecessary. This is similar to the one used to be for forestry and forestry companies had a protected activity described. And they were able to swear that this was all necessary. At the time, however, the timber was expensive, and when this changed, the price of wood fell and nothing was cut. And the farmers got a little more authority. Unfortunately, veterinarians make the same mistake of trying to determine for their own purposes what are purely normal works, which goes from generation to generation and people know very well and know their animals better than a veterinarian who is an expert. Until the third reading, we even need to consider which points are to be excluded. The veterinary feature must also be clear that it lives on from foster parents, as Mr Sok, who is also a veterinarian, said earlier. Don't think that the price of an animal has been transferred to the expense at the expense of that. The best breeders are always the ones that least need a veterinarian. I'm afraid that's the way it is or luckily it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Mr Juban's amendment, of course, wants to solve one situation, but I must say here that I agree with what Mr Ptrč said. This case, such as it is written down, blurs the matter and does not specify it. Perhaps it would be much better, Comrade Juban, if this amendment could be rectified because it is still possible, and in particular, what matters are those that breeders can carry out themselves on their own animals. That would mean a clear situation without, I would say, unnecessary complications. I think it would be possible to do this until the third reading. It would be right to write in the law exactly what those things are that the breeders themselves could do. There are not so many, nor do we have to imagine that in this area we will invent, I don't know, warm water or something, but simply write into the law what the breeders are doing on their own animals at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Please, Mr. Run!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Only the following to Mr Jerovsk, in addition to what Mr Sok has already said. In the present law, 65 activities are written as veterinary in Article 51. Of these, only fifteen of them can be carried out on a proposal from the government. Everything else is like a public service and it has to be a concession. You can't perform on your own. For these fifteen, of which I have listed, I have read something that is apparently such that it means something else. Of these fifteen, the amendment is now a proposal to be implemented by a farmer on his own animals, but they do not go. I'll say it again. I fully agree with Mr. Sok. If you have to write, and I'm not an expert, I don't know what. Whatever a farmer can and does now, let him write. It's just not those fifteen. This is something completely different and I fear, as the law states, that these activities which a farmer can carry out are not at all within the framework of these fifteen, which may also be carried out by non-concession veterinarians. Therefore, the law requires a thorough assessment, at this point certainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. Maybe the government representatives? Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'll be the first to address the second amendment to Article 52. Here we believe that the Veterinary Chamber cannot issue permits as the procedure is essentially the following: the conditions are laid down by the Minister, the Chamber checks them or verifies them, if and when it verifies them, then a concession is issued by the Veterinary Administration on this basis. We believe the procedure has been verified. As far as the third amendment is concerned, we believe that if this is accepted, then the duty of the State in certain areas may also be waived, since it means that in regions where there will be no economic interest of the veterinarians in the provision of certain services, veterinary services, for example, will not be carried out. This theoretical possibility exists. However, the state does not have to organise this, in this case. This means that this could be the result if the third amendment to Article 52 is adopted. As far as the fourth amendment is concerned, I would ask Mr Kovac to explain what the reasons were or why the government would not support it. I would add that I agree that if there are different views that could better resolve the issue, so that it can be discussed again and see what could possibly be stated differently and better arranged until the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today we are talking about the Veterinary Act and we have stopped at Article 51 and Article 52, where we are talking about veterinary activities. As the name just says, these activities are those that can be performed by someone who has completed a university or acquired the right to the title of Dr. Veterinary Medicine. They are not intended for those activities which breeders can carry out on their own animals for their own purposes. Nor do we limit treatment anywhere, but we limit surgical interventions that we believe can only be performed by doctors of veterinary medicine and by no means anyone else. And we're talking about veterinary activity. However, when we talk about the accession of the public veterinary service, this does not mean that veterinarians cannot perform the public veterinary service. This basically ensured for the breeders that the service and activity in a particular field, even if there is no economic interest, would actually be carried out. However, certain conditions must be met in order to fulfil the public veterinary service. These conditions will be checked by the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia, in accordance with public authority, as it will carry out verification of individual veterinary outpatients. The deletion laid down in the sense that this is not carried out as a public veterinary service does not mean the liberalisation of the market, nor does it involve any kind of liberalisation of the market. This means that, when there is no economic interest, this activity will not be abolished. If it is based solely on the economy and if the state does not have to intervene in this activity, it shall not be done if it is not economically expressed. I therefore reiterate that veterinary activities are those that can be performed by Dr. Veterinary Medicine and are therefore written as such. That's what makes you call it. However, we allow the possibility, and this is indicated in the terminator, a function of a veterinarian who may be a natural person, does not need any special education and carries out individual veterinary activities under veterinary supervision. On the basis of the instructions of the treating veterinarian, it is said that each service is provided. That's okay. The fear that animal owners should not carry out certain activities is being eliminated. But they can do it alone and only on the basis of instructions from the vets. But veterinary activity can only be performed by a veterinarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Mr Kovac thinks that with regard to paragraphs 51 and 52 and the amendments, at least with regard to the amendment under 4, they are logical and good. Most of all, Mr Kovac answers, is what he wants, not what he was asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Now the question was very clear. I hope that will be the answer, Mr Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	I will support the opinion already expressed by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and the opinions of the mother body. All amendments given to Article 52 are not necessary and the government as such does not support them, and I do not agree with them as a representative of the veterinary profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In Article 52, we first have the amendment under order number 2. We're voting, please. Of the 49 present, 8 voted against 28. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendment has not been adopted, the third amendment, amendment under order number 3, is irrelevant. We therefore move on to the vote on the amendment, which is recorded under order number 4. We're voting. Of the 54 present, 28 votes to 12. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we are voting on Article 52 as a whole. Of the 55 present, 34 votes against 3. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 52 is fully adopted. We move on to the 55th article, where we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 55. We're voting. Of the 55 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. Of the 55 present, 37 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We still vote on Article 55 as a whole. Of the 56 present, 37 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 55 is fully adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 57. In this article we have five amendments, the latter being the fifth amendment, withdrawn. So we're talking about four amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	President, thank you so much for your word. I believe that this article is also one of the essential articles of this law. In this Article, Members of the National Assembly shall act as a national veterinary institute with a great deal of competence. On the one hand, we acquire funds through concessions and, on the other hand, it provides certain services that may, if there is a mistake, be liable to the consequences of the action. As long as we are closed in our own market, these actions are likely to be fewer when the borders open, but these actions are likely to, as far as I know foreign capital, increasingly and this national institution will then be responsible for all the things it has done here. Therefore, I think it is essential that we place this national veterinary institute in such a way that we know who the founder is, that we know what kind of legal person he is, and that we know who is responsible for this work. It seems to me, Mr Kramberger, that you were wise to listen to the Ministry of Education, Science and Agriculture as well as to submit your amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, which the Government also supports and which was also coordinated by the Secretariat of the National Assembly. If this amendment of yours is voted, it seems to me that we have done at least now in second reading a good job and then all the other amendments that follow here, including mine, are irrelevant. But I would have said before that we would have tried on the basis of the various lobbyists who walked through the national assembly and the Members, some status quo, which is here with the amendments that follow, with the first signed letter that I respect, Pozsoncheva, and also my fellow Member and musical colleague, Gez Juban, that these amendments, which follow, are such that they walk into the accident of the university, on the one hand, on the other hand, they seem to me to be legally incomparable. As an example, I will borrow because it is better for me to borrow a man as a woman, the third amendment of Geze Jubana, where it says "national veterinary institute", not who establishes him, not what, it says, "as an organizational unit of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Ljubljana" We, a respected colleague who knows the 10th article of the law on higher education, knows what the university is, knows what the members are, who knows who the legal traffic is, and then who knows this act, which we have also adopted, is an act of reshaping the university in Ljubljana, its 16th article, and who knows the annex to this statute, which I can read to you - who knows the programme or statute of the University in Ljubljana, which you have adopted the administrative committee of the university and the Senate of the university in Ljubljana, its 16th article, and who knows the link to this statute, to which the university must give consent to which the founder is required, which the State of Slovenia may not establish its body as a national veterinarian, then set up to me as a university. This organisational unit in law means nothing. I would kindly ask you, given all that I have said, because this is the second treatment, let us support what the Kramberger Committee is proposing and what the government supports and what has been agreed on by the ministries, but not - forgive the expression, because I may ill say - this legal snag that is being ordered somewhere in the other two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. They want the word in order, first Mr Juban, then Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. When the Committee decided, it had not yet had a third amendment and could not decide on it. For the third amendment to this Article, there is the written agreement of the University of Ljubljana in the expert services of the Committee that it agrees with the above text. The text of this amendment was prepared by legal experts dealing with the reorganisation of the state administration. It was signed by fellow Members, who also formed higher education. One of these said about: two million of us, but now we will either continue to establish new public institutions or we will rationalise this country in this part, where the veterinary institute already exists within the veterinary college and we will complement it, as it says here, as an organisational unit, or we will establish a new institute as a public institution, with all the infrastructure that belongs to it, but we will then find out what now the college that no longer has an institute, and whether we will then establish two institutes for these, I do not know how many needs exist in the country of Slovenia. This was also the reason why we then went to look for another text with which the secretariat of the National Assembly also agreed. It is true that, I must admit, the claim that, of course, having a separate legal person, a special institution, a special public institution, was the purest but not the most rational in this country, because we seem to have too many irrational institutions and, unfortunately, we are still establishing them. That is why I will still support this solution. However, if certain matters, despite all the legal knowledge that has been present here, do not stand, even as the solutions that we have already adopted before, I am in favour of correcting them by the third reading in such a way that they will also stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	Mr. Mogue, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Comrade Juban, who refers to others, would like to point out that if he acts alone and signs himself, then let him defend this matter legally. And now, as he defended them himself, he basically shows he doesn't know this marriage. Comrade Juban, you said that the professional services, when you proposed this amendment, received the consent of the University of Ljubljana. The law stipulates that if you want to establish these things, this thing must go to the annexes to the university statute. However, the Annex to the Statute and the Statutes are confirmed, i.e. they do not change, for the first time in order to be able to give such permission to the Senate of the University, secondly, to the Management Board. If I do not offend you, I would read the first paragraph of Article 16, which reads: "In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 10 of the Higher Education Act and the first paragraph of Article 7 of the resolution on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana, a member of the University, with the consent of the founder, may also perform a second work." That's another job. This is not an educational work and research and other work. This means that if they want us to vote, they should also have the consent of the founder, that is, the governments or states of the Republic of Slovenia or the founding rights of the government. It is said that the government should put black on this in white and should be changed to these things; but not that we are now adopting something here, and whoever happens to be digging into it at the university will be able to challenge it legally, give this law to some opinion and to us as Members - and at least some real people - should not afford such unclean solutions. And once again, this is a second treatment, let's accept what the government has confirmed, what has been concluded, what the Kramberger Committee has confirmed, and let's try to solve these things. These things, through the adopted amendment that is here, have a final effect right to where colleague Juban intends. I agree that this should remain with the University of Ljubljana and this amendment, which the Committee proposes, requires. And the University of Ljubljana has scissors and canvas in the hands of which the institutes and to whom it will give it within the framework of the resources that it covers here somewhere from the biotechnological faculty to the veterinary faculty. And in the third reading, we can sharpen all these things. However, I find it inappropriate to accept things that are contrary to the legislation we have adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. This is one of those points where, in the introduction as a parliamentary group, we have warned that, of course, the law was not harmonised in the opinion of the veterinary profession. Of course, it is the fact that the government and veterinary administration have decided to abolish the veterinary institution and, of course, all these workers and institutions or laboratories should come to the National Veterinary Institute. The dangers involved in organizing this institute were foreshadowed. It's also about interfering with the autonomy of the university. And in all these debates and debates that have been, we have also somehow reached a conclusion on the committee that, however, it is the purest solution, the establishment of an independent institution. This institution establishes the Republic of Slovenia and the University of Ljubljana, by somehow reiterating the interest of the State, which has decided to abolish the Institute of Veterinary Medicine and not least the interest of the University, but to preserve the dynamics of development that has actually led the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine to this point. All this knowledge, all the equipment that has been purchased, is, of course, then properly transferred to this institution and can, perhaps, work quite independently and successfully forward, with close cooperation, again, colleges and all experts who will be involved in the national veterinary institute. Because it is also being transported, and the equipment and premises somehow do not hold up those claims that have been made, if that is why it will be necessary to build new facilities etc. In practice, the scope of people is the same, the activity is brought together in this institution and, of course, the seat is defined in one of the existing premises. So that some huge costs due to the operation of this institution, of course, will not be. These were also the reasons why we thought about which option we should support in the parliamentary group to support the decision of the government, which also supports the establishment of an institution as a separate legal person for the functioning of the national veterinary institute. We think that, of course, this solution is the one that is cleanest, most coordinated, including with all laws. It is likely that the purpose of the adoption of laws in the National Assembly is also to ensure that these laws are consistent with one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to discuss the first and third amendments. The first to be adopted by our committee and the third to be proposed by the Group of Members, with first-signed colleague Gez Juban, whom I have also signed. I think that this is, so, in the introduction, I have to say that both amendments are legally clean, according to the legal experts' assurances. [[...]] It stands both first and third. But we have to decide what we want. If we support the first amendment, then we create a new legal person outside - a new legal person - in which this part of the national - will be the veterinary institute, which is now in the veterinary college and part of the veterinary institution that we join. That's the first amendment. The third amendment, however, brings the rest of these laboratories from the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia to join the Veterinary Institute and the Institute of Veterinary Medicine, which is part of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, and this becomes a national veterinary institute. I think that this latter option is better mainly for this reason, because it will make more rational use of both personnel and equipment. In fact, I can't imagine how in one room there will be double staff: staff of the Institute and the University. It was mentioned earlier when the parliamentary groups represented the view of the law that we also have the position of the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Professor Jožet Mencinger. I have asked the Rector in writing for his position, and he notes that the activities and organisational form of the National Veterinary Institute have been carried out by the University of Ljubljana's Faculty of Veterinary Affairs for more than 20 years; it complements and increases the level of implementation of the pedagogical process. I think that we can agree with this that we will have to have pure wine in our country sooner or later. We do not have so much money and not so many capable people that in this case we will be able to fully equip the two institutions. We're going to have to make at least one and a half out of one person, simply put. Similar things are happening today in the area of education, where one and the same people are working on more - so this is regulated by another legislation - in several institutions. I think this thing is cleaner. After all, this regulation, as proposed by this third amendment, is a national institution within the university, a solution proposed by experts from Europe mainly for small countries; and such a solution is also recommended by Croatia and Macedonia in Finland, Norway. So I think it would be appropriate for this third amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	I would replicate in the part where Mr Kramberger had a dilemma or could not imagine how two legal persons could operate in the same premises. It is not the same place, the premises are divided because the co-establishment of the Republic of Slovenia and the University and, of course, these acts also provide for what remains for the needs of the university or college to continue, what is intended for the functioning of the National Veterinary Institute. So these spaces are very clearly distributed. In the end, something similar happened at the time of the establishment of local self - government, when we divided into administrative units and local communities or congregations, and that was when the premises were divided: something for the needs of the administrative unit, something for the needs of the congregation. And also in many cases it continues to work in the same building because until yesterday there was only one institution or before. So, of course, all these dilemmas can be defined very precisely in the founding act and procedures can then very easily move forward; the staff are practically the same. Indeed, some of the increased size or need for space, as well as for new staff, is not the number one amendment that speaks of a single institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Replica, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	I thank my colleague Kramberger because, as I understand him, he did in one part perform and defend what he was supposed to do as chairman of the committee, while in the other part he disagreed with what the committee had decided and acted on his behalf. He was saying what he did here as a signatory to the amendment, so it's essentially amphibious. However, these implementations are contrary to what Geza Juban said. Juban said that Ljubljana - in writing - gave in writing that it was established. You're saying that the rector gave you someone -- or not even you -- gave some of the services that I don't know -- assured me that these things were going to be done, but he didn't tell me that it was going to be established on what basis these things could be imposed on him. Now, if I understand exactly what you have asked for, this is the National Veterinary Institute as the organisational unit of this veterinary faculty of the University of Ljubljana. This is according to the status of the organisational unit, the organisational unit will set up a Senate, which even the board of directors does not have a veterinary faculty, will have to get an opinion from the administrative board of the university, then they will have to change the statutes, then they will have to go to the government and sort these things out. I do not believe that the Senate of the University will see this institution as a national institution alone, but through this institution will also try to solve its human resources problems, he will try to raise funds. I will not vote in favour of such an amendment that our National Veterinary Institute would put into the hands of the Senate of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. I don't think the government can agree with that either, and I think it's giving its opinion, so we also have a representative of the secretariat. I would call on her if, in this way, the organisation puts in a national veterinary institute as an organisational unit. If we accept this, is it even legal?But I think because of the "splitting" in this, - "splitting," some say, but in fact not, in one part of the space, in the other part, maybe a little with the frame - at such an institution in the long run can only bring loss and damage because it will not work properly. I would also like my government today, and our government, and then from other governments, to have the interference also as the founder of this institution, to write down in the founding act how it will be financed, who will be in it, who will name someone, how it will be composed, and how it will work in our country, even though it is young, and we will give a little more money than something that must be arranged in agriculture as elsewhere. That is why I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, to support the committee led by Kramberger and then to try to clean up these things that are in here until the third hearing. This seems clear to me, but I say from the point of adopting legally consistent solutions, and that these solutions would also be more quality living here, not falling - under the terms of "in some sparseness" you greatly facilitate the interests of a specific circle of people, a specific part of the University of Ljubljana, everything else, and that in this "sparing" you are making it impossible - however it seems - one normal government contact that should also be the founder of this if there is funding. Because since we have public powers with the first amendment to the initial article of the mandate, it will now only go to concessions. These concessions will be drawn from 14, 22, 23, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 42, 43, 46, 47, 80, 50, 55, 56, 58 and 58 points in the first paragraph of this Article. I don't think that we can play with this and that we have to give such a solution, no - which will - under the terms of saying - "with some sprawling" have some solutions that can give us as much headache in the far future and because, in my opinion, they don't allow the normal functioning of one national institution as they should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. Reploco has Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Once again, let me say that the committee could not decide on this solution, because when the committee decided on this, it had not yet had this text before it because it had come afterwards. For information. Then let's go. See, the basic text of the law, which says: the government's proposal - if the government supports it in one way or another. The Government's proposal was in the basic text: "The National Veterinary Institute is established within the University of Ljubljana as a separate special organizational unit of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine." This is the same as we suggest - it was already a proposal. However, in the second paragraph, if I were to be quickly accepted by the contested solution in the basic text of Article 57, it was disputed that the agreement of the chairpersons was given by the Director-General of the WURS. Only this was disputed in the basic text. And because of this disputed authority, we were looking for other solutions that are now ahead of us. One of these groups of Members also proposes, among which I am the first to be signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. Another replica. Excuse me, Mr Kramberger has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would suggest that if you agree with your colleagues that we can vote on these proposed amendments and then, in the third reading, we simply see and resolve the matter. Because otherwise, as we can see, we will be able to discuss the same thing for another hour. I wanted to have a second hearing today, but I do not hope to propose procedurally that we do so today. Please, if you could, if you'd agree with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	That was such a semi-procedural proposal. Call more somehow - if I understood correctly - to this I would be in favour of being rational as far as possible. [[...]] And not to repeat the debate. In addition, I would also ask that we do not initiate discussions on whether a situation is legal or not, because we have special services to do so, which will also respond as soon as they arrive. But if there's so many replicas, it's hard. Mr. Mogue has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	I would like to answer Mr President and Vice-President of the Committee that they are slightly "skinned". Firstly, because they both have scissors and canvas in their hands to convene a committee, they would have identified themselves in this regard. It's not like we're cleaning these things up here right now. And if they were so good that they invited my littleness to the board when it came to the issue of education law, in fact, the institutional activity with the law on higher education and all of them is now flowing here. Until we accepted this amendment with the ministers, until then I was good and then there was no. And that's why I think that these things are basically, excuse me, very abusive just for the interests, maybe, of the veterinary colleges in Ljubljana. And in this way - I think - we can't work. And once again I would like to invite you: to whom it is up to the welfare of Slovenia and to whom it is for us to maintain a good face, let us support this amendment, which the Committee proposes as such and in third reading, all members of the committee from all the members of the parliamentary groups will be able to have this amendment in the bailout and can supplement it and do what colleagues Kramberger has warned us about. I think she's a very serious and responsible person, and if he's signed and he's just given us a decision without having to - if he thought that this was a bad solution and that this better, that the committee called - he just has to attribute these things to himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	My colleague Rudy Mogo, I have to replicate this, because maybe my colleague Geza Juban will say something too, because I almost wouldn't allow it to be in public, that we're with the vice president of the veterinary college lobbyist. Indeed, some newspapers also write that way, but I can put another thesis that those who want another solution want to have their boss on a new legal person - but it's exactly the same lobbyist story then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. Now we're there! So, I'm sorry, this just slipped away. The next one wants to speak with you, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Mr. Gerencher is warning me to say something clever. It would be the wisest thing for you in the LDS to make a deal outside Parliament, not to come with two amendments. One defends one another and the other, and you replicate each other. So, as far as our Group is concerned, Parliament would reject all these four amendments and leave a basic version, as it was written in the bill itself. However, since this will obviously not be possible, we will only support the amendment under the number three amendment tabled by Mr Geza Juban. It's true what he said. So, it is disturbing in this Article 57, and this debate has also taken place on the committee, as is being developed here in Parliament today. It's just a matter of who appoints the director and who gives the consent. For me personally as a user of the services of the Institute, this veterinary national institute doesn't care, I really don't care who the director is, who's gonna appoint him. However, we advocate that the veterinary institute be formally organised within the university. And Mr Mogue, this is already today, the real veterinary institute is already operating within the faculty. At this point, we're just connecting these labs that are out in major places in Slovenia - I don't know how many of them - and it's completely illogical and unnecessary to set up a new veterinary institution in this area and spend money for this purpose. All together, both the government and Parliament should be in the interest that this matter is as cheap, rational and, of course, in the interest of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you. We have three replicas, Mrs Possonec, Mrs Simšič and Mr Moge, if we have recorded correctly. Please, Mrs. Possonchev. And Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'd give my support to Mr. Mohet. I believe that the man was a word and spoke in the interest of the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Mr. Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Well, I would like to replicate Mr Kramberger, and perhaps Mr Juban, in the part where they say that the committee has not even discussed the variant. Of course, the Committee has organised even the expert advice of all stakeholders to come to a solution. In fact, it all began because the basic text of the law provided for a very, very embarrassing solution; for both the Director of Veterinary Administration and the Minister of Agriculture had the opportunity under this law, following this proposal, to interfere with the independence of the university. This has also been very clearly stated in the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, and activities have been carried out from here to harmonise all these interests. So that was the reason for this in the basic text and the secretariat's warning and later in all the interested parties who later came up with a solution, which the Committee also took over and the government did not lastly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Well, that's all I want to say to my colleague. He says we're not setting up new institutes. We're setting up a whole new Slovenia, not an old one. And we also set up new institutes, more quality institutes than those who were, and we once regulate legislation ten, fifteen years in advance. As a result, it seems to me that, if we have, therefore, gathered ourselves to do these things responsibly - like everyone, but understands and tries to resolve legally - I have therefore, colleagues, also made amendments if you look under number 4 and then on, because I have seen that these articles are in conflict with the law on higher education. I've quoted the articles, and I can quote them again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	You shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	No, but I mean for that, because then on the board they saw that I had tabled these amendments, and then they invited me and we sat together repeatedly with the ministers, with everyone, and we came up with this decision that, under the terms of "drinks water". This thing here, as you say, has two points: one is that it will be cheap, the other is, if we already have an old one that we keep old; and with this certain quality for some money we give up, some transparency, and that we would really have such an institution that we could be proud of. Why, if something goes wrong, we're going to say, "I'm sorry about the expression, you fucking vet college, this is all because she's the founder of this." And I don't know how the minister and the government will feel when they want to go to college as a legal person in this case or then go to university to talk about how concession contracts and all the other things are going to happen, because the organisational unit will certainly not sign this because it's not a legal person.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	I'm sorry, but the replicas are repeating themselves. So Mr. Sok has a replica, and I hope you'll say something new about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	Just for a moment, Mr. Mohet, who says we're setting up a new Slovenia. Given the discussions that are taking place here, it is a shame that this new Slovenia does not have 34 Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	Mr. Sušnik has a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	I have already announced in the introductory explanation on behalf of the Group of Members that we do not agree with any amendments to Article 57 and that we will oppose the changes. See, already the debate on the amendments to Articles 4, 20, 29, 31a, 31a, 49., 52. which were discussed by all parliamentary groups has confirmed our expressed fear that the implementation of this Act will have serious financial implications for users of veterinary services. [[...]] We are of the opinion that this is enough already to avoid the need for additional financial implications on the budget, which would logically follow the establishment of a separate institution or a new institution to act as a national veterinary institute. Because then it's too much. In addition, I would say that such an opinion should be taken into account by the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Mr Mencinger, who makes it clear that no intervention in the autonomy of the university has been made with the proposed solution. However, I would also like to draw attention to the words of the Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, who points out that the education process in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, as well as the scientific research activity, would be substantially distorted. These are the things that have been declared or written down by the most responsible in the field of veterinary colleges and universities. And that is why we in the Socialist Party's Group are opposed to any changes - or, in the extreme phase, we will support the amendment under number 3, which actually resolves the dilemma of the second paragraph of Article 57 of the proposed law, which could be inconsistent or controversial. This provision, however, refers to the appointment of the chairman in prior agreement to be appointed by the Director-General of VURS. By no means will we be here, I will say, serving any demands or further planned human resources solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	Mr. Mogue, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	I, my colleague, would like to repeat to you that you spoke confusedly because at first you said that the Social Democratic Party would not support any amendment and that it seemed pointless for you to support these things. Now, in the end, you said that you support, so the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia supports the amendment of the first-signed Member of Gez Juban, who defines just as it is written here that the National Veterinary Institute is an organisational unit of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Ljubljana. I would procedurally suggest that we not talk, Presidents, to get the letters mentioned here, from the Rector and all the other institutions that follow this, to the bench when we decide. I would ask procedurally if the secretariat could explain certain dilemmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	The secretariat's been on this opportunity for some time. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A respected choir! In fact, from the point of view of the Secretariat, it was most controversial that the basic proposed solutions, following our assessment, which they also agreed to at the competent ministry, reached into the autonomy of the university by determining, I will say, the competence of the director of the VURS, to appoint the head of the university institute, and by providing for a consensus on the university programme for the field of veterinary study in article 70. Article 70 is proposed, as I have been informed, for deletion. As far as Article 57 is concerned, we have, of course, warned that it is actually possible for multiple options to come to a solution, but for anyone who is legally — let us say — to be justified and for everyone to know, in fact, whether the objectives pursued with regard to carrying out the activities expected of this - and now I will say - entities that have been realized, and, of course, how much this will cost in real life, which we do not have and cannot judge. We certainly believe that the establishment of a specific legal person to carry out certain tasks, I will say, matters, as part of the public service or even as a given public authority - depending on the activity - are a very clear solution to the position of the Secretariat. We believe - in fact, we suppose, although we cannot give guarantees here of course - that it would not cost much - because it would actually result in the pooling of the staff and assets of the two institutions that have existed so far; this is the institute within the faculty and the veterinary institute that has in its own, I will say, the functioning of the organised field laboratory or - as they are called - regional laboratories. We considered that this could be done as a joint establishment of the University of Ljubljana and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the State of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is true that we considered that, of course, under the conditions of functioning of higher education institutions, it is possible, of course, to ensure, under certain pre-conditions, that - now I will say - the University of Ljubljana of Veterinary Faculty, the National Veterinary Institute performs, under a given public authority or concession for a country, certain high-quality services which fall within the framework or public powers or public veterinary service. However, of course, such arrangements fall under this regime, which governs the management of other activities in the field of higher education. The statute, which was recently adopted, also provides for a special consensus, which is not yet in place at this time, because the agreement on the Statute has not been given yet, and from this point of view this is - I will say - an pending procedure. That's how much we can explain right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Petan, you have a replica, if that's what I saw.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you. So, I'm not going to go into the professional part of this problem, either way. However, there is something else that has stabbed me, that is, I am replicating to Mr Mohet. I don't know if he's engaged or if he really thinks so. He said, "If we accept this amendment," I don't know which one, "then we'll have to change the law on higher education." Look, this law is about legalizing the functioning of the veterinary profession. I think that functioning in this sense, which will also be verified by the European Union or recognised by the European Union. If we do so, then it does not matter if we have to change another law; for things that are not now functioning and law - abiding are certain that we can also run into something that will need to be changed by another law. Now let me remind you of something and support this claim. You probably all remember the threat of the European Union to ban imports of meat from Slovenia - I think it was red meat. If there's another term, please correct me. And as far as I can remember, we've set up a hierarchy in the veterinary profession in Slovenia, because we didn't have it before, because we had dualism, and in fact it was the same institutions that controlled themselves, that's why we changed one law. That's what they say. We shouldn't change any law. It is said that this thinking does not go together, and if the solution is that the vet works well, that the hierarchy works and that it does, that we have to change another law, we will change it. And I think it's a better solution than saying "no, but here we'll find some solution, whatever it is, just so we don't change any other law." And that's what's bothering us. And I don't think it's right to think like that. But I don't go into content. I'm just trying to think logically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	Replica, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Good-bye, so-called Rudy. But I was misunderstood. We will not change the law on higher education, but there are three or four acts. First, the law on higher education, which now applies and gives the university autonomy. This law on higher education - I will not tire you and refer to articles - says that it is possible to arrange with other acts that members who are not legal persons; this means: colleges, probably veterinary colleges, can have their own giro bill. Then the second act, followed by the second act, is this decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, which we have also adopted. This Decision also provides that the members of the University may, on their own behalf, carry out educational work at the expense of the study areas of the preceding Article and so on. Members may carry out their activities and a member of the University may have his giro account. But it's not like he's re-establishing new people in between. On the basis of this article, a third act will be adopted, namely the Statute of the University of Ljubljana, which also defines in article 16 what the Secretariat is in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 10 of the Higher Education Act, which I cited, and paragraph 7 of Article 7 of the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, which is open to a member of the University with the consent of the founders - the founder is the Government of the University. Therefore, this act has not yet been published in the Official Journal because the university has not received the annexes to this act, but will determine what members can do to prevent members from becoming "factories" instead of an educational organisation, because they will only pursue profits. When this is done, then we have the basis - and if we get a green light from all these organs, then we could write here that the National Veterinary Institute as the organizational unit of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Ljubljana. This means that the University of Veterinary Affairs in Ljubljana would be the founder, giving a founding act for its unit. But to me, it seems more pure and "magari", my fellow Kramberger, this article can be corrected. For example, the first is the National Veterinary Public Institute, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia and the University of Ljubljana. You can find another organizational form instead of a public institution. But I would certainly stand on whether it is national and if it is veterinary, not to set up a university, but to set up a government - if it is national - and to establish it, even if we have decided so, within the framework of our university in Ljubljana, and then these are pure solutions. We know who drinks, who pays, and in their founding act, these founders will tell what this thing has to do, then the National Veterinary Institute will adopt the statute, and then it will function to the extent that everyone knows where the duties are or what is responsible. That seems like a clean solution to me. That's all I'm calling for. This is a second treatment. But it seems to me that if there is - well, I see that there will be parliamentary groups, but they have been defined - two of them, one of them is not - for the third amendment. It seems to me that this amendment, not on the legal footing, as Mrs Bitenchev said earlier, is not on the substantive side - at least they are not acceptable to me personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Look. In fact, this is a matter for Members to decide. The position of the government is quite clear. We have proposed a solution as it is written, although in the first version we had a solution, as proposed by the Group of Members or by Mr Juban, and it was precisely for the reasons mentioned, then also amended. Contentually - I am not going into a legal matter - we believe that one or the other is possible. Everyone's got good and bad sides. Good in the case of the amendment proposed by Mr Juban, the fact that the Institute in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine is also useful for obtaining certain other positive effects in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, good other solutions or government solutions, is significantly more transparent. There's nothing to add here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you. I suggest that Mr Moge is now as short as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Presidents, I think this thing is very important; this will give quality to the legality of the work of this institution. Now, Mr. Minister, you've done little like an amphibious act, because you probably didn't consider this third amendment in the government or you rejected it, if I saw it right - look here! - You turned him down, you don't support him. But you support the first amendment, don't you? Now you said: the first is good and the second is good, well, if the first is not good, the second is good, but the opinion of the government is [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? I'll find these things, and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	Mr. Secretary will be able to answer because he's here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	Yes, but now, if this is a dilemma, and if you haven't dealt with it, at least in a hurry, we can stop it, let the government meet and let it know clearly what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. The government's position is clear and you have it in front of you. So the government's position is clear. That's it. And I just added a little broader explanation myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Does this mean that we can conclude the debate on this Article 57? Please, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	I mean, because my colleague broke up with me. Here I have a government opinion of 27.2. where the support of the government is the following amendments - if I have seen this correctly - but the government does not support amendments under number 13, the government does not support - explicitly writes - the amendment of Geza Juban to Article 57, paragraph 6, because it supports the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which amends Article 57 in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. So all the amendments we have are exclusive, they exclude each other; if it's adopted first, we don't vote ahead, if it isn't, we move on. So first, we will vote on the first amendment to Article 57. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 26 votes to 20. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; therefore, we will not vote on the remaining amendments to this article because they have become irrelevant. Wait a minute! Because we have accepted this amendment, please take a look at page 32, which is paragraph 101. Article 101 is related to Article 57. In the case of Article 101, please refer to point 1. And only this point 1 would be voted on now or we will now vote. So, we vote on the first point, the first amendment to Article 101. Of the 56 present, 22 votes against 3. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against three.]] That's what you call an amendment accepted. Since this amendment has been adopted, the second amendment to Article 101 is irrelevant. We are now voting on Article 57 as a whole. I apologize for replacing it with text, I forgive myself, it took a little while, because we adopted Article 1 in full - the first amendment - the article was also adopted. And we can proceed with Article 58. We have six amendments under Article 58, with the sixth amendment withdrawn. I open the debate on Article 58. Who wants a word? Nobody wants a word. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 58. Of the 55 present, 16 voted against 22. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the second amendment to Article 58. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 12 voted against 32. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Third Amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 45.1 voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. And we're moving to a vote on the fourth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 34 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] So we've accepted the fourth amendment. That is why we must now jump to page 25, to the new 72a, which is related to this - this is the world of users, by the way. This is said to be a vote on the new Article 72a. Let's vote, please! Of the 51 present, 21,15 voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 15.]] The new Article 72a is adopted. Now back to page 19, to the fifth amendment to Article 58. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the fifth amendment has been adopted. We are now voting on Article 58 as a whole. Of the 51 present, 37 voted in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] The 58th article was adopted with this. We're moving on to paragraph 59. We have five amendments under Article 59. Under order number one, we have an amendment to the government's amendment, and then forward, as you can see, in a row. I am opening the debate on these amendments to Article 59. Mr. Minister wanted the word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you. Only the first amendment to the government's amendment would be withdrawn because it was essentially a mistake. We propose not to support it because it is proposed by the Committee. Because it's a mistake. Actually, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-05-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	Now, to be clear, Mr. Secretary. So, at the first amendment, you say the government doesn't support it. That was your opinion? So, in that word below, "government:", where it says "support", should say "support". Is that what you thought? Okay. I'm opening a debate or, please, who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We begin with amendment number one to article 59. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 14 votes in favour, 22 in favour, and 22 in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. Of the 49 present, 37 votes against 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. This makes amendments 3, 4 and 5 irrelevant, and we do not vote on them. Since the second amendment is written - if you look at it this way: "Article 59 is amended to read..." we have also adopted Article 59 by adopting the amendment and voting on it is no longer necessary. Another 60. We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we vote? [[Yeah.]] We're voting, please. Of the 50 present, 37 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 60 as a whole. Of the 50 present 36 voted in favour, 1 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 60 has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 6:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the session. We will continue the meeting on Tuesday, 10 April at 2.00 p.m. with the hearing adjourned, so first we will proceed with [[...]] [[A voice from the background.]] We've announced it! [[...]] All right, we'll continue with the 17th. Then we will move on to the consideration of this point, which is the law that we are considering today. Then on the 11th and 12th and on the agenda. With regard to the 13th item, we will continue the third consideration of the proposal for a Telecommunications Act within the framework of the rapid procedure. The deadline for the submission of amendments to qualified applicants is open. Thank you so much for today. See you Tuesday.
