ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The expert services of the Finance Board are working extremely hard to prepare a report. Given that all the articles have been amended, I ask for a little patience. Fifteen to five o'clock is expected to be on your bench. Thank you so much for understanding. Mr. Jakich, that's the only explanation. The chairman of the committee has not yet signed the report and asked if we could wait fifteen to five o'clock. I think we can be so considerate of our jobs because there are no reports yet in hand, but he will present the report to the National Assembly. Thanks again for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened on the basis of Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members of Parliament: Jelko Kacin, Dr. Michael Brejc, Anton Delak, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Janez Kramberger, Janko Weber, Franc Kangler, Stanislav Brenčič, Maria Possonec, Branko Kelemina, Franz Pukšič, Ferry Horvat, Andrej Fabian and Bogomier Vnučec. We will determine the presence in the hall, so I politely ask you to press the button on the quorum to determine the presence! [[...]] There are 58 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, so I welcome them very much among us. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. An extraordinary meeting is convened on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. You received the draft agenda today with a reference to the proposed single agenda item - addressing the proposal of the guarantee law for insurance coverage of air carriers, the rapid procedure. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. Anybody want a word about enlargements? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a fast-track law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a guarantee of insurance coverage for air carriers for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? Minister, Dr. Pavel Gantar, please. Dear Mr. Secretary! Right now, we're deciding on a quick procedure. If you'd like to talk about a proposal for a quick procedure? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I therefore propose for today's agenda session, which you have received with reference, with a follow-up to this. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We are moving on to the only item on the agenda, which is on the defensive proposal of the guarantee law for the insurance cover of air carriers, a rapid procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, and I am now asking the representative of the Government, Minister, Mr Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll try to be as short as I can, but I'll just have to say a few words. The fact is that, as a result of the terrorist attacks of 11.9.2001 in the United States, aircraft insurers reduced the guarantee for damage caused to third parties on earth due to the risks of war and terrorism. By 10.9 they could say that all insurance companies with airlines had insurance contracts for damage caused to third parties on the ground by the limits of insurance contracts, depending on the size of the companies. Thus, Adria Airways had 750, and some of the larger airlines, of course, had significantly larger sums. After this period, insurance companies reduced this liability for damages, guaranteeing $50 million. This has put airlines in such an impossible position. Because, according to the rules, this guarantee should, of course, be provided in the sum of the insurance policy for these cases, as stated above.In Europe where they have occurred, they have begun to think bitterly and to act on how to do this, how to bridge this difference. Because if it wasn't, the airline would, of course, stay on the ground and not fly. The conclusions adopted by the European governments and governments in the European Union related to, were the government's conclusions for guarantees, for these damaging events ranging from $50 million to the amount of the air carriers in their shelves. These decisions have been issued by Governments and are valid for a certain period, mostly a month. Of course, Slovenia is also faced with this issue, but it has become evident that the Slovenian Government cannot issue such a decision on this guarantee, of course, has no legal basis for it. Only Parliament can do this or such a guarantee can only be given by Parliament. And that is why, of course, we brought this law into the national assembly. We acted as fast as we could. We received a document on these matters on Wednesday and, of course, on Thursday we were at the government and then we took action. I would like to say in particular this and, above all, I would like to make it very clear that what we are talking about today is a guarantee relating to the damage caused to third parties on earth by the risks of war and terrorism. This is not about other guarantees and insurance elements in the shelves held by these airlines. So, let's say, in the case of Adrie Airways' cover, to which this law actually applies, the cover of the aircraft's helmet due to military risks costs in full, but, of course, at the premium, at the premium rate of 0.05 percent of the fleet's value, which means that Adria will pay $82,000 more. There is also still coverage of liability insurance for damage caused by war risks for payment of $1.25 per passenger transported. The liability for passengers is also covered in the case of war risks. Only up to 50 million of them are covered by damage caused to thirds on earth, which means, literally, if I may say so, when the aircraft is used as a weapon in some kind of terrorist or war attack. That's all this is about this marriage. This is also an answer to those who repeatedly ask if this does not allow the state to go into a very large area of guarantee, but would simply say that the risk of such an event is extremely small, that it should not be, especially after these events that have occurred. However, of course, insurance law and airport creditors require such guarantees. What's going to happen next? First of all, it is likely that in a month or two, three will find appropriate solutions, perhaps with insurance companies, in order to provide adequate guarantees for this as well. However, between then and then, they guarantee this liability from 50 million to the level of the insurance policy, of course for these cases of liability to third parties, but in the cases I mentioned, of course, to governments. Such conclusions were issued by all the governments of the European Union, all the governments of associated members, except Slovenia and Slovakia, including Croatia and some others. If we don't turn this in, it could happen that Adria won't be able to fly. Since it was clearly stated yesterday that the law could not be adopted, even though it would not have been valid, but it would have been a very strong commitment, we have found that there is direct damage of $87 million, because the creditors of Adria, because they no longer have the risk of being fully insured in this case, could have demanded repayment of the loans. We immediately imposed a decision through the Supervisory Board on the Management Board of the Slovenian Development Society, by which the Slovenian Development Company accepted the guarantee for this sum until the law was implemented. This decision is currently in effect, if I may say so, aircraft are in the air, flying, but this is an unusual solution that other countries do not have in this case. We believe that she will keep the law in force, and then it will continue as I have written. In order not to advertise too much, I would like to stress in particular that I thank both the legislative service and the Committee on Finance and the Council of State for their useful comments, which have made nomological and otherwise improved the law, for which I acknowledge that it was written in haste and had a number of things not clearly written enough. The text is now significantly better. And I simply say, although I do not yet have a report before me, if the report is as we agreed, the government agrees with all the amendments mentioned in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! This law was discussed by the Committee at its 14th extraordinary meeting this afternoon, and after a rather extensive and substantive discussion, it drafted amendments to three of the four articles of the law and to the title of the law. In doing so, we have taken into account all comments of a substantive nature made by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and most of the comments made by the opinion of the Council of State. We have also taken into account one of the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group until then. In this context, I propose that a specific debate on individual articles be held at a time when an examination of the amendments will be given so that there is no unnecessary discussion of the text of the law which will be obtained at the final stage, according to the Committee, of a completely different content. That is why I believe that if the debate draws to a close before the amendment is delivered to the bench, that at that moment the presiding lady will interrupt the debate or this item for a few minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, other members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we got to the table, at about this time we did have a version of the law that has been substantially amended today, but we support solutions in our parliamentary group, because we believe that our air carrier must fly. However, we do have a point on the text. In doing so, in fact, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to commend our professional services, who have written and drafted a new text of the law, which we will get on the table, and we will also deal with it afterwards. Since I was a member of the Finance and Monetary Policy Commission, I understand that, so I hope to speak on behalf of the Group of Members about this law. Little bothers us that we do not have a thorough analysis of how other countries have reacted to the issue of the cancellation of reinsurance contracts. But, as I said, for three months, as long as this law is supposed to apply, we think we just have to adopt the law quickly. We have a lot of comments on that chapter on foreign air carriers, from several perspectives. We are talking only about certain weights of these aircraft, but not about smaller aircraft and other helicopter units, which can also fly across our national borders, which are also not dealt with in this law. In fact, it is only our national airline that is being considered, to be discovered. We were interested, and we are still talking about how we actually have our borders protected against the incursions of such terrorist aircraft, which would be smaller than these, and how the security of our citizens is protected, say, water resources, other facilities, because this is not yet defined in this law. I think that's precisely why, otherwise, on the Finance and Monetary Policy Commission, we've deleted the notion of similar actions that could have happened in addition to terrorist acts, which is exactly what we're thinking about, what's left of smaller aircraft, and other units that can cross the state border are causing a major accident. That's not what this law solves. At least that's what we think. And second. In fact, we have little interest in who benefits from this law. The state itself. Okay. We own 91%, so this is the country, our national air carrier. Probably in the other 9% of the countries are involved in some way also via the Ljubljana Bank. This will also make us happy to examine our national carrier's annual business report, because in our country, companies that also operate for people do a lot for the country, but we do not help them so generously. As I said in the introduction, our Group of Members will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. In the Slovenian National Party, from yesterday, from the moment we spoke, we stopped the meeting, we met with the President of the National Assembly, we talked a lot. There's three things I'd like to point out. For the first time, as a member of such a parental committee and of this national assembly, I felt some consensus, i.e. consensus between not only political parties within the national assembly, but also some consensus between the national assembly and the state council, and not least between the common interests which this country has in certain respects. The facts were clear whether the aircraft would land and carry such or otherwise damage, or whether they would fly. We also agreed that there were suddenly a lot of questions about the legal and regulatory positions and opinions of the insurance business in the Republic of Slovenia. I am confident that these questions will remain open and that the rights of insurance companies to the amounts we are talking about will still be discussed. We have also heard views that we can discuss today. Other governments had the opportunity to adopt specific legislation so that their airlines would fly. The government didn't have that option with us. We have heard, we know that Sid Slovenian Investment Company does not have this option either, because it is not registered for this activity. The solution was found, as far as we were informed, at the Srd, but this national assembly is today before adopting a law that will guarantee to the Slovenian air carrier for three months that it will fly smoothly and carry out its work. I repeat, the questions that have opened will remain open, and if the young colleagues do, I think that, both opposition and positional, will not open questions, we will. On behalf of the members of the home committee, I would like to express to my colleagues in the National Assembly the conviction that we have taken into account the opinions of both of us, that we have worked constructively, and I am convinced that, even when the title of the law is changed, we have drawn up such a law, which I do not believe is a big word and which we can, with all confidence, for a period of three months, that is, a guarantee for a period of three months, we all accept together. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Honourable Vice-President, Minister, Government Representative, Honourable colleague and colleague. In considering the proposal of this law, we considered it important in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to be slightly more precise than in the basic text, to clarify the individual categories, the role of individual factors in this business. In short, the role of the state, in two ways. The role of the country first of all as a anchor of the institutional framework, which represents a positive business environment and behaves in a manner similar to that of other comparable countries. Secondly, the countries as well as the owner, both in the role it plays directly in Adria and also in the role it plays in the SRD and in the New Ljubljana Bank. It is therefore necessary to define the role of insurance companies in this business more precisely, to define reinsurance undertakings sufficiently, to define the role of the Slovenian airline Adrie Airways and, of course, the role of foreign carriers. All of this was important to include in the debate and in a sufficiently precise definition, both the title of the law and the individual articles. It is important to underline that this law governs both the position of the Slovenian national airline and of foreign airlines flying to or leaving the airspace of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it was also necessary to find agreement in the discussion on the precise and sufficiently consistent delimitation of the three separate branches of government. That is why we did not define ourselves as the proposals that went towards imposing concrete measures of an entrepreneurial nature on the Slovenian airline, but we have only retained ourselves in the role we also have in the legislative role. Let me conclude by thinking that the adoption of this law will take us three months, presumably, to a role similar to that of Slovenia and, as a rule, significantly larger countries. That is why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Madam President, Minister! We had, as has already been said, a very good meeting of the financial committee and we have resolved most of the issues at stake. Here is the main thanks for the comments made by the State Council and the secretariat for legislation. The amendment of our New Slovenia Group was also accepted to shorten the guarantee or guarantee to three months. We think that this is a very reasonable deadline, because if we look at what governments around the world have done to help airlines in this disaster, we can see that there were very few governments that went over this deadline, and most of the time there was no deadline at all. Indeed, the countries have focused on giving airlines the opportunity to regulate their situation with insurance companies and, of course, if this does not work, they will have to cut down on other measures. We also proposed that the State should not guarantee directly to Adria or to our only air carrier, but that this guarantee would go to our carrier's existing insurance company and that the guarantee would be between $50 million and 750 million, and that it would then also cover reinsurance activities. We do not quite understand who Triglav’s reinsurance company was and how it came to be that he suddenly cancelled his insurance. Of course, we understand that other societies have done so a little earlier. We think I should repeat that this transaction should take place between the government and the insurance company. I'll tell you what we said in our explanation. With the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to take all the risk of this accident from the insurance company to the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Insurance companies collect premiums precisely for the purpose of taking on contractual burdens in the event of an adverse event. In a specific case, insurance undertakings are liable to any burden, both as regards the choice of a foreign reinsurance undertaking and as regards the contract concluded with that foreign reinsurance undertaking, and also as regards the risk they took with insurance contracts. Here's where I'm supposed to do an intermec. I agree with those who say that this is just one fire that needs to be put out, and that we will have some issues that arise in this regard, such as the business of Adrie Airways and the kind of contract that the government is proposing now to guarantee our air carrier that we will leave it on the side for now. However, as we have seen on the Committee on Finance, we will try to follow this and we will also receive reports on this matter. Let me finish this explanation. At the same time, insurance companies must pay a guarantee premium to be accepted by the Republic of Slovenia until they conclude new contracts with a foreign reinsurance undertaking. The amount of this premium will be determined on the basis of a negotiation between the insurance undertaking and the competent ministry, taking into account the amount of premiums paid for comparable guarantees by insurance undertakings abroad. It is essential that the amount of the premium is fixed, even though the law does not explicitly specify the amount of the premium. I'd like to say one more personal opinion here. It is far more prudent for the government to guarantee the insurance companies that are in this business and who will be able to better control, firstly, the contract, the conclusion of the contract and then the implementation of the contract, if necessary. I think that this practice is economic, economic and that the market laws we are trying to introduce in our country will also have to apply here. So, again, thank you to all those who have participated in this treaty, to draw up this treaty. Nevertheless, it seems a little strange to me that the government of some things has not thought through enough, even though I understand the difficulties that it has been, but I think we have good lawyers who might be able to solve some of the problems that we have to deal with on the committee ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we received a guarantee bill yesterday for the insurance coverage of air carriers, we in the UK Group of Social Democrats found that this is the right and only way to continue with Adria Airways and other Slovenian airlines, in view of the known events, with this activity of the air carrier and, of course, they also continue to meet the obligations of compulsory insurance against third parties. It was also acceptable to us both the objectives and principles of the law as defined in this proposal, because, last but not least, the failure to adopt such a law would also result in the collapse of Adrié Airways and, in fact, prevented the work of other Slovenian air carriers with a view to carrying out air transport operations of the transport category in the future. Surely we have also been extremely attentive to the third part of the law, which deals with the financial consequences. We have also thought about a number of things, but not least in the light of the events that took place on 10 September this year, we considered this to be the only right way, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done and proposed the adoption of an appropriate law. Mr Ferri, with whom we are working on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and we have also agreed together on which positions to put into effect, because we have also assessed that the law's precisely dictates are not accurate enough. However, I think that this was a meeting of the committee, including with a great deal of help in view of the meeting of the Council of State today, and of course also with the views of the secretariat for legislation, I think that the law is clear and understandable enough. In particular, we have supported the proposal that this law will not only be in this part of the adoption, i.e. for a period of three months, but after this month, the concerns expressed in this way on the committee and probably today will try to, say, resolve. However, we are, of course, although I must also openly admit that I would also agree to this transitional period of up to one year. The proposed amendments, which we will look at together if they are as designed as they were on the committee - we have also agreed on the Group of Members to give them full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, respected Acting Director of Adria Airways, colleague and colleague, hello! In the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we welcome the purpose of the law, as it is actually intended to enable our only air carrier to continue operating and also to exist. In this respect, we fully support the purpose and objectives of this law and, of course, cannot be contradicted or supported by this aspect and this point of view. I regret to say, however, that once again, as often, the government, or in this case, the Ministry of Transport, has put into the National Assembly a rather flawed text, and we have practically spent the whole day together with our services, with the Council of State and, of course, with the contributions of individual Members and Members, in my opinion, quite a good text. It has to be said that I feel that today this has not been said, that with this law the Republic of Slovenia has assumed a guarantee of approximately one annual Slovenian budget. This is a serious figure and at this sum it is worth imagining and also, of course, adopting such rules of the game as well as such circumstances and provisions in the law, that they are unequivocal, that they are clear and that is exactly what it was to the government when it submitted this law to the National Assembly. In this context, in the Social Democratic Party, we have also proposed a proposal for an additional decision, because if we are already taking such high risks, it is necessary, in our opinion, to ensure as wide and as wide a range of measures as possible to reduce or prevent these risks. We therefore propose to both the government and all entities responsible for air safety to provide, as soon as possible, all additional and modern counter-terrorism measures, both at Slovenian civilian airports and public transport aircraft. I think that these measures can significantly reduce risks, not only for this guarantee, but also for the most part, this is for the lives of passengers and, of course, the safety of movable property and property. In the end, I would ask the government one more of the key questions that arise to us in doing so, and unfortunately, somehow we were unable to get an answer. This question is: Is $750 million for the damage case really the lowest possible sum of guarantees, that is to say, is it not possible for a particular damage case of a lower guarantee? In view of the fact that the Minister has said that this guarantee binds to already concluded insurance transactions, I am still asking whether such a pattern has been applied to other airlines across Europe and, of course, around the world, or whether it is not just us. That's why this is a question to the Minister, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary and a member of the government. Yesterday we met with a problem and were probably ready for everyone else to help the government solve this problem that was created for our only air carrier. It seemed to us that the law was acceptable and that it did not hide such traps as the members of the Council of State and the professional service later found, our Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. That is why today, on the Committee on Finance, the debate and the law were almost completely recast. I wouldn't repeat everything my predecessors have already said we're not wasting time. I would like to say that, with the content now proposed by the amendments, we agree and that we will also support it. However, we also agree with those proposals that the problem is not so small, although we have a relative European criteria for a small carrier with seven aircraft, that the most extreme black scenario would be, say, these aircraft are also given hostile action, kidnapping and so on, could become a huge financial contribution for Slovenia if, of course, something like this happened in America also happened between our aircraft. We will support this bill with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to government representatives and everyone else. In our SMS, we will supplement the law with the amendments of the committee. I'm not going to repeat the things and the facts that everyone else has been talking about. However, I hope to risk the assessment that after three months we will meet again with the same law, given the known facts that are happening in relation to past events. I am also afraid that the State guarantee will also be a practice in other countries for some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. They presented their opinions to all parliamentary groups. I now give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. As I have not received written submissions to the debate, the debate on possible debates is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I myself attended the last part of the debate, which took place in our Committee on Public Finance and Monetary Policy. I would like to ask the Minister a question, because I really do not understand it, and this is also the basis for this amendment, which our Group of Members has proposed and has not been definitively adopted by the Committee. That's what this is about. As I understand how this thing works, there's actually a contract between Adrio Airways and Triglav Insurance. In part, the insurance company Triglav gives it to another institution, which we now know is somewhere in London -- and as others around the world, it has declared unilaterally that it will not cover these possible damage of over $50 million. That's how I understand it. If that is the case, I would also like to know if it will actually be because Adria Airways is state owned, 91% directly, and then via the New Ljubljana Bank almost remains. I would like to know why the government has decided to actually do or decide to take such an approach, to conclude a contract under this law directly with Adria Airways and not with our insurance company that has already carried out this business. Also, this issue is not just from a formal point of view of cosmetics. There is also what happens, and we all hope that this risk will not actually materially happen, but we must also anticipate it. It is not the same if the State has a contract with Adria Airways or a contract with an insurance company. If there are actual accidents, then as a country, we will also assume responsibility for the implementation of all that is associated with such disasters. Well, it's not easy what the original situation is. If it is our contract, Adria Airways, which is finally also in state hands, whether it is directly the insurance company Triglav and then the insurance company Triglav with that company in London, or whether it was two different contracts. If it's the first one, then we'll have to look at this contract just so we don't pay for things we won't achieve. And if it is also in your decision, you predicted consequences in a particular case if materialisation of the injury actually occurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, if you'll excuse me, I would ask the other Members and Members to give their views in the general debate, and then I would give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'll explain part of it, part of it to my colleague, Minister Rob. As you say, your reasoning is going this way. About what happened. When insurance companies and reinsurance companies withdrew and limited to only a limit of $50 million, of course, the bitter search for the right solution began, as I mentioned earlier. Until the right solution is found, which is likely to be a combination of insurance companies, countries, probably even passenger crossings, and by that time, governments have taken on a direct guarantee for that time, a shorter time: a month or more. And that's what we're talking about. Once again, other governments have done so simply with their decision, while the Slovenian government must therefore come to Parliament. The next thing that matters here is that there will certainly be a lot going on at this time. We have an article in this law that says that this guarantee is now valid for a time until the change in international insurance and reinsurance conditions to cover these risks or for a maximum of three months. Of course, isn't it? Just until we make a deal or we make a deal and we make a deal on these matters. These are the solutions that European governments and neighbours have chosen. Why not, I can only assume; the financiers may know this better. Even if we are trying to conclude this with an insurance company, say, Triglav, the question is whether this reinsurance will be taken into account then forward, and so on and so forth. That is why this is the most, I would say, simple and, clearly, also a transitional solution. The answer to the question put by Mr Vizjak whether a similar sample was elsewhere, or whether it would not suggest a reduction. No, these matters go to the insurance policies that were at the level of the amounts entered into on 10.9.2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'm just helping out a little bit with that answer. It should be known that Adria Airways has an insurance contract for such risks up to $750 million with insurance company Triglav alone. That's perfectly clear. Within the global reinsurance market, insurance company Triglav reinsuranceed this business to this amount. There has been a change in the global reinsurance market. The reinsurance company, which actually re-insured the risk to Triglav, limited, like all other insurance companies around the world, the scope of this insurance and is only possible up to $50 million. The insurance company Triglav has taken this into account and does not cover more than $50 million at this premium. Of course, they said that insurance company Triglav even increased its premium. This means that we now have a problem in the global reinsurance market, which is currently at this stage of blocking up to $50 million. As you know, foreign governments, for example, in English, have decided to give all airlines time at a certain time to agree with insurance companies and these with reinsurance undertakings for additional insurance. This means, of course, what we all know is that insurance premiums will increase, that the price of transport will increase, and that this will eventually shift to the end user. What I think we can do is we try to monitor the events and that, at the moment that we find that such contracts have begun to be concluded and costs outweighed, if I may say so, from countries, the potential costs from countries to insurance companies and also to airlines, at the end of the day, we react and ask Adria to do the same and to do so under competitive conditions on the world market. Therefore, I think that the most we can do in this case is to ask Adria - and we can do this as a majority owner - to report regularly to us on what kind of transactions she decides and what she is doing with the contract and also to check that these insurance conditions are then as internationally comparable and competitive as they are. In this sense, of course, it is possible to also notify the National Assembly and these treaties will be concluded by the end. Otherwise, it's perfectly clear. The contract is with insurance company Triglav.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you both ladies and gentlemen very much for your answers. We are truly clear on what this is all about. In this situation, this government must take over the role of the institution, which takes place in the second stage of the insurance contract - that is, reinsurance. Just because we're taking this role, we're actually going to play the role that this institution has played in London so far. I don't know the name, because it doesn't really matter, because they're all doing the same thing now. So, it's a real question, and why we decide to take on the role of a 50 million-dollar direct insurer, not the same as if we take on the responsibility of being 50 million-dollar re-insurers, because it also has consequences if you let me do it if there is actual materialisation of the damage. Then the role of the reinsurance undertaking is not the same as that of the insurance company at the original level. That's some logical question. We have identified ourselves and have therefore proposed such an amendment, where the government and therefore the state under this law should have taken over this role, which has so far been played by the reinsurance company, which has been unilaterally, as for everyone else in the world, also for our Adrio Airways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Minister Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Look. I can tell you that we've looked into these cases. We also have specific cases, for example in the case of Austria and similar, where it is quite clear that countries have jumped into this situation temporarily and temporarily covered the insurance and, of course, did not act as reinsurance undertakings and began to conclude with the insurance companies of the contract. Simply in all the cases that we know and have looked at the cases in England, I think that the Netherlands was, that Austria was, too, the country went right into the hands of the air carriers and, I would say, eased that part of the burden in the meantime. Otherwise, this would mean that, at a time when the situation is relatively poor and, of course, the number of passengers is also decreasing, this would immediately affect the rapid rise in ticket prices and costs as well as everything else. I think it is right to give the market time to consolidate and not to overwhelm these costs immediately on transport and on air transport. I'm sure this one's gonna get irritated anyway. At this point, it would probably be the worst situation to get through this right away. And that would, in fact, mean what you're suggesting right now. First of all, it would take a relatively long time, some additional time to conclude contracts with insurance companies, should appear as a state, as a reinsurance undertaking, insurance undertakings, should conclude a contract with the insurance undertaking, and then, of course, the insurance undertaking should conclude an additional contract with the airline and, of course, raise the insurance premium and, of course, go to the ticket price, meaning that at this point Adria would be less competitive on the world market than other airlines which could have concluded such a contract with the countries or governments directly. This would in particular mean only higher prices and higher costs of air transport in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick. Here you go, then, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Madam President, I think we are debating some things and we are not getting a clear answer. First of all, let me say what I forgot before that we are all aware of the importance of our only air carrier. The importance of this carrier for our reputation in the world and for our economy. There's no question. However, it seems to me that what Minister Rob just explained is something I would like to know. The insurance company Triglav will still cover up to 50 million, if I understand correctly, US dollars. That is to say, if she's bound to have up to 50 million, then why don't she take over the rest. I understand that it might be more time-consuming and so on, but that's the logical conclusion. In fact, in these three months, I am sure that if insurance company Triglav will not do anything and the government will not do anything in this direction to put again in insurance capital, it will take some time, but I think this is the only right solution. Nowhere is it said that some countries in Europe have not done just that, so that they may have given direct guarantees to companies for a short time, but I doubt it, it is more likely that they have helped regulate this through insurance companies. And that's where development goes, as far as I can tell, around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! It's actually hard for me to understand your argument about possible complications if we go another way, because I imagine the opposite. The treaty exists as we already know it. There's a contract between Adrio Airways and the Triglav insurance company. This contract certainly includes all that someone else is supposed to assume the responsibility of reinsurance undertakings by a third institution. It would be much easier if the existing treaty remained to be signed immediately, even this afternoon when this is once adopted, and I know it is very necessary for us to make it. Don't think I'm going to challenge you or that I want to reduce the urgency in any way. I'm aware of that. However, I think it would be much easier to actually conclude a contract with insurance company Triglav and assume the responsibility she had until September 17 or 24, when they declared that they would no longer take this responsibility for 90 days. This is much easier than starting a new contract. I really think it's just that I don't know why the Austrians made up their minds, but they're not known all over the world for the simplest people, but they like to complicate things. [[...]] I don't know. I think the path would be much clearer. The premiums should not change, but the premiums should remain. What Insurance Triglav paid in London, but at least that much should be paid to the state now. And it's all going on for 90 days until the situation is cleared up. I am not saying that terrorism is much more developed in the United States, where there is much more experience with such things, but it is much more developed in this industry, and it is larger, as regards insurance companies, that Exim has taken on all these responsibilities for seven days, in one week, in the hope that they will now be in the market, that is, all these institutions that are participating in this market, in order to reach an agreement and that this will be clarified once and for all. I think it would be much more appropriate not to assume the role of an insurance company, but only to assume the role of a second level, because otherwise, even if we actually do happen to have to do so, it is not the same if we have the role that this institution would have in London, but if we are the primary insurer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Dear Dr. Bayuk. I'll try to answer with the case of Great Britain. The Government of Great Britain, together with the London Insurance Market, has agreed to provide insurance for damage caused to third parties on earth in the event of a war or terrorist attack exceeding $50 million, as currently provided by the level of insurance companies. They also agreed that in the first 30 days, we have implicit 3 months, not necessarily, in the 30 days in which insurance companies were to settle a new status, British carriers would not pay any premium. That's the key. That's what I wanted to tell you earlier. As a government in a contract we will conclude with Adria, we can also set a premium. I want to tell you, even in the case of the Netherlands, the government has given it directly. We can charge the premium, directly, it's the easiest. I suggest that we do not charge the premium immediately, nor do we immediately overrun the costs of Adrio. I think this is the best way; it has been done by other countries and I suggest that we do the same in Slovenia. This law gives us the right, in fact, to conclude such a contract for just three months. In fact, we are not specifically talking about the bonus in this law, but we can give and charge the bonus at a certain time. However, I would not give them the premiums that other countries give them and therefore make them less competitive. That, I think, makes sense. I don't think it's necessary for us to identify new forms of insurance in these cases, but let's do what these most developed European countries have done. Of course, this is taking part in this risk in a relatively very difficult situation in which carriers are.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u39	If I may, even less than three months, changes to international insurance and reinsurance conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sorry to have to call you back. I really didn't understand, Mr. Secretary, what you were going to say earlier. But with what you've just said, I have even bigger problems, of course. In fact, our proposal completely simplifies things. We did not say anything to calculate the new premiums, but I would only expect that insurance company Triglav, once restricted, unilaterally withdrew, the reinsurance institution in England has resigned from paying them the same premium. This isn't no Well, unless we charge at least what they used to pay, and then we create some support for Adria Airways today, which is really not necessary. [[...]] Or maybe we're taking some responsibility because insurance company Triglav's already raised it a little bit. Let Adria Airways decide that, and one way or another, we'll demand that they explain it to us because they're working with public funds. But -- and I want to end with this -- I don't think you really understand what I'm trying to suggest. In no way would we assume any new obligations, only those that already exist, to the same extent as they have been. So it's not that we're against the competitiveness of our Adrie Airways, "au contraire, monsieur", just the opposite. It is about keeping the situation as it is, that the state will not want to create some profits on its own right now, because we are in such a period because the risks are considered to be greater than they were before 11 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Mr. Petty Officer, please, then Minister Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. If we take into account the information provided by Minister Rob, then the matter changes a little bit. In fact, this has also been happening as soon as these tragic victims and this excess have occurred. Indeed, reinsurance companies have essentially ceased to guarantee and guarantee over 50 million in that amount. This will immediately establish a new relationship so that no more premiums will have to be paid. In this new situation, governments, due to this financial blow, in some way, wanted to help, of course, prices would have been raised in such a way that they assumed the guarantee themselves and did not require a short period of payment of the premiums. However, after this month, a relationship will have to be established, and governments will not continue to do so. This is also the case in these documents - until a balance is established. So, the balance between the premium payment and the insurance. When this reinsurance ceased, there was virtually a reduction in premiums, but this is only apparent. It will be necessary to establish a balance over the longer term and also to pay for these premiums, which will significantly increase the amount of damage such as $750 million. This will, of course, mean more expensive transport and increased costs for a longer period of time. That is why our proposal is all the more justified and is also related to the issue of payment of premiums, obligations. What Nova Slovenije has also requested is clearly defined. Of course, this is also a matter for Parliament to decide, but in the first month this air carrier may not have to pay the premium, either through the premium via the insurance company Triglav or directly if direct insurance is concluded with Adrio or the guarantee is taken over by the airline. This is an explanation of this story that we would like to see in New Slovenia clear and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Minister Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Look. That's all I'd say. This proposal, which has been proposed here and has also been adopted by the Committee on Finance, I think it has been corrected, I think it is internationally comparable, as it is known in other European countries. It provides in a relatively difficult situation for airlines across Europe a normal transition to significantly more difficult operating conditions, followed by an increase in insurance premiums. There is nothing new, it is comparable, so I think that this proposal, which is here in the original, needs to be adopted. I think that this proposal, which you are proposing with the amendment, would completely unnecessarily complicate the insurance procedure, probably extend the insurance deadlines, but in particular increase the costs, undoubtedly, and reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian air carrier. I am sure that in one month, two or three, no one will realize such profits from this title so that someone in particular may have a headache. On the contrary, I think that in the coming months, the situation in Europe is relatively difficult, and I think that this is not such and so much support that we should be particularly concerned about it, but, I think, something normal, something comparable, so I suggest that you accept the original proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the report of the parent working body. The report on page 3 contains the content of the amendments adopted by the Committee. However, you also have the amendments tabled in Article 2 of the Code on the bench. [[...]] We'll do it in a row. The law has four articles, three are amended. I am putting Article 1 and an amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. This is the amendment of the Finance Committee, which also amends the Article entirely. I am opening a debate on Article 1 and on this amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 1 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 in which we have an amendment of the Committee, which amends the whole article, and an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 of which the New Slovenia Group is proposing. Anybody want to talk? However, we have another amendment from the New Slovenia Group, which is summarized in paragraph 3 of the amendment of the Committee. The amendment to the amendment to Article 2 of the Committee was subsequently tabled by the New Slovenia Group. You don't have it on the bench yet. I'll read it. At that time, I would ask the services to reproduce and make amendments to the amendments to the Members of Parliament on the bench. The amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 reads as follows: The text of paragraph 4 shall be amended to read: "The Ministry of Transport shall, on the one hand, conclude with the insurance undertakings covered by the Slovenian air carriers, the contract governing the rights and obligations of the insurance undertakings, of the one part, and the Republic of Slovenia, of the other part, the contract relationship concluded for the guarantee of the State under this Act. Insurance undertakings shall conclude a contract within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. Insurance companies are obliged by the Republic of Slovenia for the entire period during which they guarantee the coverage of the damage, to pay the corresponding premiums. If the contract is not concluded within 30 days, the Republic of Slovenia shall not guarantee obligations under this law." Explanation. By means of the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to overcome the entire risk of altered market relations between insurance undertakings on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers, insurance companies are collecting premiums precisely for the reason that, in the event of a damaging event, they will assume their contractual burdens. In a specific case, insurance undertakings shall be liable to any burden by selecting foreign reinsurance undertakings as well as the contract concluded with a foreign reinsurance undertaking, and also with respect to the risk they have taken with insurance contracts. On the basis of this amendment, it follows without a doubt that insurance companies must pay the guarantee premium to be taken over by the Republic of Slovenia until they conclude new contracts with the foreign reinsurance undertaking. The amount of this premium will be determined on the basis of a negotiation between the insurance undertaking and the competent ministry, taking into account the amount of premiums paid for comparable guarantees by insurance undertakings abroad. Mr Pucko, I think you know the text of this amendment, whether the drafter himself is the basic text that you have discussed and voted on on the committee, so the Members already have before them, or whether the text has been amended. It's changed a little bit. That's how they tell me jobs. I would open a debate on the amendment of the Committee, which amends the whole article. And we'll discuss the amendment to the amendment when we get the amendment to the bench. You have just received on the table an amendment to the amendment of the committee, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group. I am opening a debate on Article 2, the amendment of the Committee and the amendment to the amendment of the Committee. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Just one fix. Here I think it was wrong for the Ministry of Transport to decide that, in fact, we thought the Ministry of Finance was responsible. So please take note of this correction. There's a mistake. On the other hand, I would like to add to this explanation that by making the contract, as we propose here, the state would not assume the primary insurer's responsibility in the event that there is a real realization of any tragedy in our case. So please take note of this, too. Besides, we've discussed this a lot and I wouldn't have anything else to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 2 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 3. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. An amendment of the committee was tabled to the title of the law. I'm putting an amendment to the title of the law in the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the title of the law has been completely amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading of the draft law or the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 have been adopted. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so, and before asking if anyone wants to discuss the proposal in full. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Madam President and colleagues, but I was present at the meeting of the committee and the government representative submitted one correction to Article 4, namely, there was a text, "entering into Slovenian airspace", he said, "which they use". However, this has not been corrected in Article 1. That's all I'm saying. It's actually editorial, but memory doesn't fool me, I think the government has suggested it. If you read Article 1, here is one mistake before going to the third debate to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Would anyone else like to discuss the bill in its entirety until the professional services have identified themselves to this warning? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Look. When I follow and listen to this debate, I think we are really making a very quick and simple decision on one very big issue. I think we're all adopting this law together under one assumption that nothing can happen. If we accept it under such an assumption, then we can really easily press these keys and vote in favour. What if we reverse the situation of adopting this law under the assumption that something happens and then we multiply the sums from this title by a few numbers? Can you imagine what would happen? Could the state, I ask ministers, because of one such law, which we so quickly adopt and compare, I don't know, with England and I don't know which country, we could go bankrupt. I propose that you consider once again this amendment to the amendment to Article 2, what it actually means. I think Dr. Bayuk explained what it meant. But I don't know if you've all listened to him exactly what he said, what happens if a crash like this happens. We all see how this ring ends, what's going on, what can happen tomorrow, no one knows. This is what I would suggest that we may suspend the meeting for five, ten minutes before the third hearing and that this amendment to the amendment to Article 2 should be reconsidered. The minister's nodding. Good. Let's at least keep what I said in the record. I'm saying, I come from some assumption that tomorrow can happen in Europe, what happened in America. If the insurance company carries the weight of the burden, it is something purely different than if it carries the weight of the burden of the state. These two are completely different concepts. I don't know, I'm not a banker, but this situation doesn't seem so simple to me, and the weight of these millions is so great that at one extraordinary meeting in an hour we solve all of this, and I am really questioning the seriousness of the work of this national assembly. I'm saying, if you're up for it, think again and study what this amendment to the amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u53	I am very sorry, but I must say that even if you did what you say in terms of the State's obligation, it would not change anything. If the State were to actually re-insurance this business and something like this happened by accident, the whole amount should also be paid. The problem, of course, is premium. Who and how he pays the premiums. But as for the whole obligation and everything you're talking about, it doesn't change anything. That is why I propose that we move forward and that the law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u55	I'd have a short replica of my colleague Sok. I take his warning as very well-intentioned, but I think that when dealing with this issue, however, it is necessary to realize that it is essentially life-threatening. In fact, we are not talking about how to protect the problems caused by Adria Airways, but how to protect the problems caused by global terrorism. The problem of this nature goes beyond the possibility of corporate governance. Even at the international entrepreneurship level. It exceeds the dimension of air carrier control, the dimension of insurance and reinsurance management. Therefore, by analogy, our debate has been decided in a number of other countries to deal with this problem with the active role of the country, which is expected to be a transitional country. That is why I would like to remind my colleague Sok in this sense that I am probably one of those who are very thorough and with great seriousness and great concern and also with regard to calculating the details of this law and the situation, and we are consciously deciding that this proposal of this law is supported and that we do not support the law tabled by the New Slovenia Group, because this amendment would, of course, eliminate the essence of this law and would in fact completely miss its purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded the debate at the third reading, Dr. Bayuk, allow me to explain to you, the representatives of the secretariat have made it clear that the amendment of editorial nature will remove these two dilemmas. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc Peng.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I say that mutual compliance with the amendments adopted is not violated. However, I say that the secretariat will correct the text of the final text and, as Mr Bajuk has pointed out, correct the text in Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 54 votes to 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, we have two proposals for additional decisions that you have on the bench, namely a proposal for an additional decision by the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group of Members and a proposal by the New Slovenia Group of Members. First of all, I am putting forward a proposal for an additional decision, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would only briefly explain the purpose and purpose of the proposal for an additional decision, which was transmitted or submitted by our Group of Members. Given that the National Assembly adopts this law, under which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the risks of domestic air carriers in cases of war and terrorism for increased damage to third parties, it is necessary to ensure certain measures, in particular that we think of additional superstandard and modern measures to reduce these risks. This is very much in the concept of this law, so I believe that it is in the spirit of risk reduction that this conclusion is, and I hope that the government does not oppose it, so I ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision by the Slovenian Socialist Group. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 18. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate and decision on a proposal for an additional decision, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have decided on one fundamental matter, which also needed quick conclusions. Otherwise, I had different views on one paragraph of Article 3, which you already know. However, despite this crisis, which we have found such a response as we had to find together, I would only suggest that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report as soon as possible to the National Chamber of Operations, from its recovery to today, on the basis of the data from the audited accounts and this year's unaudited half-yearly business account. Otherwise, 91% of this facility is owned by the state, and directly via the New Ljubljana Bank the remaining 9%. It is therefore necessary for Members to be aware of the operation of the entity for which we guarantee. This is all the more necessary, and I would like to point out here that today's newspaper is saying that Adria Airways and the European Development Bank are talking about some recapitalisation of $20 million to $40 million. I think that's why it's absolutely necessary for the National Assembly to know what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u63	I oppose the adoption of such a decision, because the State assembly will monitor the balance sheets of all companies owned by the State does not go anywhere. The custodian of state property is established by law and is also monitoring this business. The National Assembly is for the adoption of laws. Your committee or commission is to monitor the use of public funds and so on. However, if we are going to deal with the annual accounts of all companies in the National Assembly, I do not know where this arrangement is going. And I firmly believe that the National Assembly is not here to review the operations of companies owned by the State, but others are empowered to do so. And you know that, too. I am, of course, opposed to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Mr Anderlich, we will not review the balance sheets of any state-owned enterprise or wherever they are. But for those companies we're vouching for, that's guarantees from this national council. But you know, even by a farmer's logic, if I'm going to someone's wedding, I need to know what's wrong with him. There's nothing else in the business world. That is why we also demanded this because the National Assembly directly guarantees these risks.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, did you both report for the replica? Dr. Bayuk, please, then replica sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd answer my colleague Anderlich very briefly where this is taking us. To understand clarity and responsible decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar and Mr Anderlich have the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Look. So we don't mix things up. We did not provide guarantees for Adria's business, we gave a guarantee for a completely specific story, but with business in this case, of course, there is absolutely no connection. I'm sure you don't. As colleague Anderlič has already said, business is from another story and is controlled as it should be controlled. The guarantee of Adrie Airways' business has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. You're giving up the replica. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. I didn't mean to call, but I'm still going to replicate Mr. Anderlich. I agree with him that it really doesn't make sense to monitor the business of all companies whose ownership is the state - this absolutely. However, I do not think we are aware of what we have accepted today. This amount of up to 750 million, for which we guarantee the risk, may or may not happen, of course, we all hope not, but after the adverse event, 750 is after the adverse event and we know that an adverse event can happen with one vessel, aircraft, or one aircraft. That's saying, Adria, as far as I know, there are seven or eight planes, 7 times 750 million, that's five billion dollars. Five billion dollars is exactly one Slovenian budget. For one Slovenian budget, however, it is probably no big deal if we get a bunch of paper, even if this paper is one kilogram and we are informed. That's what this is about. Not because we might actually be monitoring every company. But since it's one Slovenian budget, that's why we typed today. I voted in favour, too, and I don't mind giving this guarantee because we had to. But it's such a big asset, and I think there's a lot of people at that point that he didn't even realize it. It's a Slovenian budget. That is why I will support this proposal because it is such a huge asset. We have been discussing the budget for three months, even after a reduced procedure, and we have accepted it very quickly and that is why this is happening. That is why I think that such a security measure is fully justified, and that is why I will support this proposal, as I have supported the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision by the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 32. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposed additional decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the government, representatives of the secretariat, the services of the National Assembly and you, Members and Members of Parliament, thank you very much and good night.
