ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Bogdan Barovič, Franc Čebulj, Rudolf Petan until 4 p.m., Janez Janša from 4 p.m. onwards, Vojko Čeligoj, Leopold Grošelj, Aurelio Juri, Maria Possonec, Aloise Peterle and Dr. Joseph Bernik. We're picking up the presence in the hall, so I'm asking you politely to insert the cards. I'm picking up the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I welcome them all very much. Before we move on to the agenda, we will have a hearing and a decision on the proposal to appoint a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member who has taken office in the government. The Republican Electoral Commission forwarded the Council with a statement on the appointment of a candidate to replace the MP who took office in the government. The findings were addressed by the Mandated Immunity Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Your Honor! I ask politely for a little peace in the Chamber, because even those Members who want to hear the opening part cannot hear it. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the secretariat for legislation? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I give my word to the Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are going to the vote. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, we are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Until Member Janez Drnovšek, who has been elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today, Mr Jaša Zlobec Lukič, born on 21 January 1951, residing on Vilharjeva Street 9, Piran. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and I sincerely congratulate Mr Jaša Evil Man and invite him to join us. With regard to the report of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 30.5.1996, I propose that the Council decide on the next proposal for a decision. Nice greeting, Mr. Yasha Naughty. With regard to the report of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 30.5.1996, I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following proposal for a decision: "To the extent possible changes in the composition of working bodies, Member Yaša Zlobec Lukič shall act as a member in all working bodies, whose member or alternate member was Member of Borut Suklje, who has ceased to serve as a Member." Does anyone want a word about this? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on it. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 4th session and the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. Does anyone require amendment or addition or any other comment on the minutes? [[No, no, ……]] Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. As there are no comments to the minutes of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 15 May 2001. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, we are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of matters from the agenda. The Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Mr Jelko Kacin, informed me that the Committee, due to its disagreement with the title and the text of the original agreement, had invited the Government to amend the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Community on the cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Information and Communication Network, in accordance with those comments. The Chairman of the Committee also proposed that the draft law should be withdrawn from the agenda of the 6th meeting. Does the motioner want to withdraw his word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It's 36 votes against 9. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda has been adopted. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Ciril Pucko, informed me that the Committee had decided, at the time of its consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on auditing, to carry out a public presentation of opinions. As that presentation will take place in early June, the chairman of the committee proposed that that law be withdrawn from the agenda of the 6th meeting of the assembly and postponed to the June meeting. Does the motioner want to withdraw his word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the bill's proponents? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda has been adopted. We have not received any other proposals for withdrawal. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. We have not received any proposals for enlargement. Does anyone want a word about this? Mr. Auschwitz, allow me to explain. Your proposal for an extension of the agenda Allow me to make a proposal first and then I will give you an explanation of the college. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. I was already afraid that he did not go to the right address of my proposal to extend the agenda relating to the ratification of the low-cost transport cooperation agreement with the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia. This agenda item has already been discussed in the previous mandate and has also been suspended for various reasons, especially because we were not united, whether this agreement is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or not. It was a series of attempts to ratify the agreement. For the first time, in 1998, and in five sequels. However, after some of us have found that we supported this agreement, that this political will will not be done until we have an adequate opinion on its constitutional dispute or non-controversy, in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of 30 Members suggested to the Constitutional Court that it should give an opinion on this agreement, if it is in accordance with the Constitution and also with the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence of Slovenia. We did this on January 25th last year. After almost a year and a half today as the first-signed Member, I received the opinion of the Constitutional Court on this initiative, which says that the agreement is not contrary to the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia and not to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Since this agreement was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly and since this agreement was also addressed in the previous reference by the Committee on International Relations, it was then called, I think that there are no longer any legal reservations, not in the sense of our Rules of Procedure laid down in Article 302 so that, following the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it can continue ratification or ratification procedure. I therefore believe that it would be possible to put this item on the agenda at this meeting, as there is every possibility of doing so under the terms of the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Thus, Mr Jože Ašič proposes that the agenda be extended also by means of a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border transport and cooperation. Mr Ašič, as chairman, I apologize to you for wanting to clarify the position of the College before you could form your proposal. The College of the National Assembly also took note of your proposal today. I would like to explain to you that two concerns have been raised. First, that the members of the opinion of the Constitutional Court have not yet received an official opinion, there has not yet been an opinion in the National Assembly. Secondly, according to the proposal, the representative of the government at the college also decided unanimously to consider the agreement at the 7th regular meeting, i.e. the June meeting, and, in view of your proposal for extension, placed this point on the previous occasion of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. If, Mr Ašič, you insist, the National Assembly will decide on your proposal for extension and I have given you an explanation of how the College decided on your proposal for extension, which I took note of today at the College in point Razna. Mr. Aishovich, please. Just let me know if you insist or don't insist on making that decision, according to my explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	The fact is that, as the first to sign, I was probably the only one to receive this morning's decision with complementary opinions. It would probably not be right to torture the procedure today in Parliament by insisting on the proposal. Of course, I agree with the inclusion in the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly. If we've waited so many years, we can wait another month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Auschwitz. This means that you do not suggest that we extend the agenda by means of a bill. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on external matters for consideration by the Assembly and proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members of Parliament. For vote 39, against 16. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on free legal aid and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 6. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Act on the amount of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits and proposed to the assembly that it should be adopted in accordance with a rapid procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on the use of long-term eco-reservations and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the property ownership of social property and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 36 votes against none. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws following a reduced procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wages Act, on how to harmonise wages and on the Regression for annual leave during the period 1999-2001 and proposes that it be adopted by the assembly following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Vizjak submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law for consideration by the assembly following a rapid procedure. He later proposed a law to replace it with a new text and proposed to the assembly that it should be adopted after a reduced procedure. Does the bill's proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're closing the debate. Before we move on to a decision, I reiterate that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on earthquake restoration and promotion of development in Posoča for consideration by the Council. It proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We're closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act for consideration by the Assembly and proposes that it be adopted after a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present.We vote. There are 72 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on High Schools and proposes to the assembly to adopt it following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management and proposes to the assembly to adopt it following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least a third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose today's agenda session, as you have received by reference, with amendments and additions adopted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. Allow me to provide you with a notice sent to the heads of the national assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups: "We inform you that from the Radiotelevisions programme Slovenia has announced that today's session of the national assembly will be fully recorded with two cameras and that there will be no direct transmission. They're going to use it on information shows." This is a notice from our information department. Your Honor! On the agenda of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will start on 22 May 2001, the draft law on external matters is included in item 10. Given that a large number of international visits abroad and in Slovenia are foreseen in the next 14 days, the government is asking us to address this point, i.e. on Thursday, 24.5.2001 at 2.30 p.m. This would allow Dr Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to present the law and participate in the debate. I therefore make a proposal for a decision to be made to the Chamber of State. We are voting on the government's proposal that the 10th item of the agenda be considered Thursday at 2.30 p.m. on the basis of the explanation and the Government's proposal that I have just read. We are voting on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and will be on the 10th agenda on Thursday, 24.5.2001, at 2.30 p.m. With the first item on the agenda, these are questions and initiatives from Members and Members of Parliament, we will continue in 15 minutes, which means at 2.55 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to one. This is the question point of the day and wakes up the Members and Members of Parliament. Allow us to be present before this, so I respectfully ask you to insert the cards. We're picking up the presence! There are 68 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. In our midst, I warmly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, all present ministers, state secretaries, and welcome. The following ministers and Minister of Culture Andreja Richtar, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags, apologized for this point. Franci Booth and Minister of Finance Mag. Anton Rop. Instead, the State secretaries of these ministries are present at the meeting. During the business period one day before the meeting, we received written statements of questions and initiatives sent. The order for asking questions and initiatives is laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the first three questions or initiatives are posed by members of the opposition and then by a number of Members from the various parliamentary groups by order of application. The order for asking the first three questions and initiatives is in line with the agreement of the opposition parliamentary groups, taking into account the principle of fluctuation. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question referred must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clearly visible. The oral question or initiative should not last more than 3 minutes, the answer should normally not last more than 10 minutes and the additional question of the Member should not exceed 2 minutes. The first three parliamentary questions will be answered by Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek. The first three questions will be asked by Mr Janez Janša, then by Mr Bogomir Vnučec and then by Mrs Majda Zupan. The first question will therefore be asked by Mr Mamič in the Procedural proposal. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	I suggest that you first answer the questions that have already been asked two, three, four months ago. Let these questions be answered first. Then please, if, for the rest of the session, the ministers remain in session so that we can ask them questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	You must have thought of the answers to the questions put in writing by Mr Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	It's the lips, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	There can be no other way, since the answers to the parliamentary questions that we are addressing at the meeting can be found in oral form or the government representative commits himself to conveying the answer in writing to you. So that there can be no unanswered things from the previous session, initiatives and questions. However, I can assess that you have not received any reply, in writing, from the Government and now remind them to give you a written response.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	I asked oral questions and the ministers said they would answer in writing; neither verbal nor written answers. That's why I suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Mamic. If you add further, you can tell which question you have not received the answer, and we will ask the Prime Minister or the Secretary-General to remind the competent minister that he will provide you with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	My first question was asked in January about the gas toll.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Just, who else?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Good. I orally asked a question in February of the month when they would get paid for the land that had become vacant in the Vipavska Valley, when a fast road was built through it, opened three years ago. On this question, Mr President told me that he would give the answer in writing, and there is no answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In this way, we ask the Minister to answer questions that have not been answered, or I would like to remind Mr President and all other ministers that they are obliged to give the answers they promise to be given by the next meeting of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Janez Janša, Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Mr. Janez Janša, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to express my appreciation to the Prime Minister and also to Slovenian diplomacy for the exceptional opportunity that Slovenia has received with the possibility of organising a visit or a joint meeting of the American and Russian President. At the same time, allow me to express my expectation that the Slovenian government will do its utmost to make the most of this exceptional opportunity for the international promotion of Slovenia. I am also taking this opportunity to protest against the response we have received from national television, which has been preparing for two years to transmit parliamentary initiatives and questions. During that time, even the TV of the Republic of Serbia began to broadcast them, and our national television is still unable to do so. I expect that if he receives new guidance today or at this meeting, this will be settled. My question in question is the amendment of the company law; we have a third reading at this meeting. The amendments we have tabled so far have been rejected. I ask the Prime Minister what has led the government all the time in this procedure, that it has advocated solutions that are, in other words, justified by the adoption of certain European standards or arrangements that Europe does not yet have, because this guidance has not yet been adopted, in order to substantially change the management of companies, especially shareholders, by different regulation of the relationship between shareholders or owners, supervisory councils and administration. Following this proposal from the Government, which is no longer possible to be amended in the third reading, the Supervisory Board should be given powers which are not common in other countries. Among other things, it is practical to decide by adopting the annual profit allocation report, which is the normal jurisdiction of shareholders or owners. Things are so written that this would particularly affect small shareholders, who, thank God, are still very much in Slovenia right now. The hand on the heart, and so far it has not had much effect. Another novelty, which, unlike the law in force in 1993, is now in place, is the restriction or extension of the possibility of participation in supervisory councils. So far, it has been limited to membership in three supervisory councils, and now this extends to five, it is said, that anyone could be a member of five supervisory councils. The law does not provide for any qualifications for this function. For the lowest position in the state administration, qualifications are prescribed for the lowest official. However, the supervisory councils of companies with huge assets will not need any qualification if this law is to be adopted. As has already been said, these innovations go particularly to the detriment of owners or, in particular, to the detriment of small shareholders, not to the detriment of a country which unfortunately is still over-owned by the Slovenian economy, and in some ways introduce concentration of decision-making power in the Slovenian economy potentially in the hands of a very narrow group of people. I ask the Prime Minister why the government has decided on this model that is nowhere in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Janez Janša. Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you. Thank you also for congratulating Slovenia on the organisation of this summit, meeting of the American and Russian President. This is also a very important event, and I think that this is a real recognition of Slovenia, as we approach the 10th anniversary of our independence, the recognition that we are a fully stable country, that we are acceptable for both power and power, that it is on our soil that such an important meeting is. Of course, the government will do everything in its power to make this meeting as successful as possible or to ensure everything that is necessary and to take advantage of this great opportunity for the international promotion of Slovenia. As far as this law is concerned, I would refrain from making any more detailed comments. The Government or the proposed Minister of Finance followed the guidelines of the European Union. The government did not, in fact, have any other special purposes and not any other discussions. However, there is, of course, law in the procedure of the National Assembly, where opinions on these issues can or may be exchanged. I would therefore suggest that a more detailed opinion on this or the explanation may be given by the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Not as complementary a question as repeating what I said. I said earlier, and this is undeniable that the European Union has not yet agreed on the adoption of a specific guideline. Three have been prepared so far, none have been accepted. Thus, the Minister of Finance of this Law, with the guidance of the European Union, could not be reconciled because it has not yet been brought into line. The government here refers to the German model in explanation, but it does not really summarize it. Germany does not have such a model, it has about such a difference as to ensure that in Germany shareholders, especially small shareholders, are protected by law. Of course, that's not the case with us. This is an original solution, but in our view it is not a good one. That is why we would, I don't know, ask for an answer, even though the Minister of Finance or whoever is here from this ministry. What was the main motive for proposing such a solution? Certainly not the normal relationship in the management of companies, since this has not yet been intercepted. And why, for example, when amendments were proposed in the second reading, which were actually regulating or trying to comply with the majority practice in Europe, because there are no uniform guidelines yet, why this was simply rejected by answers that were not substantive, but with an answer, so we decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Since the question of Mr Drnovšek is identical with the 11th item of the agenda to be considered at this meeting, I ask, given that Mr Drnovšek is his representatives covering this field of work, if they wish to complement the reply of the Prime Minister, otherwise the debate is likely to develop at the time of the 11th item of the agenda at this meeting. Since no one wants to say a word, I give the floor to Mr Bogomir Vnučec, the Young Slovenia Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you for saying so, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! Last year, the National Assembly adopted a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, hailstorms, landslides and seaslides in 2000, published in Official Journal No 81. With this law, it provided assistance in the country to all affected persons of 10 billion 150 million tolars, 5.75 billion in 2000 and 4.4 billion in 2001. So far, 5 billion tolars have been realized from this title of the law, of which 90 percent have been used to remedy the effects of drought. In November of last year, heavy rains and earth’s reptiles caused damage to over 30 municipalities of about 3 billion, 65 million tons. In the same month, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commissioned the competent ministry to draw up an intervention law providing funds for the rehabilitation of floods and terrestrial beaches. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened, nor has the affected population or local community received State aid for the injury suffered, nor has it been in a proportionate proportion as for the drought. I ask what will be done by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the remediation of damage in the wake of last November's floods, according to its own conclusions and the unrealised funds from the previously cited law. I ask why there is not yet a promised intervention law and why there is not yet a system law on the conditions and manner in which state aid is spent in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Grandchild. Dr. Janez Drnovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you. Otherwise, I am waiting for a question that, as Prime Minister, could be answered about concepts, strategies, such as, say, such topics. Individual topics are, of course, the responsibility of government ministers, who also propose laws and also defend them in the National Assembly, namely. In this case, it is the Ministry of the Environment, the Minister of the Environment. As I know, these problems are being resolved, I think also from the current budget reserve, that the law is in preparation, but more so I suggest that the Minister of the Environment tell us about this if he has more information or elements to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez the Dipper, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	It's not a problem. Look. First of all, in December this Parliament has already adopted an intervention law on the elimination of the effects of the beach of the Congestion and, in the transitional provisions, has in fact extended, upgraded the law on the elimination of the effects of the drought, the service of the sea and other natural disasters mentioned in the title of the law, so that this intervention law on the elimination of the effects of the beach of the Congest has been included or has also allowed funding to be provided for the removal of the effects of the beaches resulting from the adoption of the so-called dry law. [[I'm talking about the beaches of November 2000]] . So there is a legal possibility for this, but of course it is a question of whether there is money. This year we have budgetary reserves from which the consequences of natural disasters can be financed, amounting to about 10 billion tolars. 3.4 billion will deal with the effects of the earthquake in Posoča; 1.6 billion have already gone to remedy the effects of the drought; 800 million have been involved in intervention measures in Logo under Mangart; and about 400 to 500 million more will go to Log under Mangart. Then there is the removal of the effects of the 1998 flood, which is also our debt, which will cover an additional approximately 450 million tolars, and so on and so on. All of this quickly leads to 10 billion tolars. However, we only hope that there will be no additional natural disaster this year, which would also require drawing right from this item, reserves. Well, in order to address the consequences of the floods or reptiles of November 2000, I think this is what I am now very much thinking that the funds under this year's reserve are a good 100 million dollars. It is true that the assessment of the consequences of the damage was as you mentioned, i.e. around 3 billion and a half, I think; it is true that this is an assessment of the damage in various activities, not only on infrastructure, for example damage directly to water infrastructure, was for 200 million tolars. Well, anyway, money isn't enough. All I can say is that the ministry, in abundance of the problems it has and the problems it has with eliminating the consequences of such accidents, will try to allocate the maximum amount of funds from the reserve for this purpose. However, in order to guarantee that a large amount of these funds will be allocated there this year, it would be unrealistic. As far as the system law you mentioned is concerned, it is in fact a similar question to the one I have asked many times as a Member to my colleague Paul Gantar here. It is true that this law actually means only the criteria for the allocation of the budget reserve. It's very easy to write. For December, we were, if you remember, on the Infrastructure Committee, when I explained it, in a dilemma, whether we're going with this law, which is now in second reading, to Parliament, and the second and third, quickly through, and thus cover Log under Mangart, whether we're going with a special law. [[I don't know if you remember, maybe, that's when I explained my dilemma.]] . And we decided on a special marriage. Why? Because there is really one essential chapter missing from this system of laws. This is a chapter that would stimulate the protection of people against elementary disasters, which would actually involve state resources in encouraging people to themselves to insure themselves and then combine insurance and state resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This chapter is not in marriage, and we still don't know how to write it right now. Just last week, we met with a group of people from the Slovenian Insurance Association and agreed to write a draft that we will then re-debate. In fact, we don't even know what would be acceptable to them. It's definitely in processing, but I can't promise it'll be in a month or two already. But I'm sure it will be this year. I just hope there won't be another natural disaster before then, so we don't come back with some kind of intervention law. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, are you satisfied? Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija. Here you go, Mrs. Majda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, representatives of the government, respectable assembly! Mr. Prime Minister, allow me to address you this time. The Republic of Slovenia has decided to share the common social property among its citizens. We passed a law by which every citizen received a certificate for which he could obtain a share in companies or pids. You too, Prime Minister, have guaranteed your signature to Slovenian citizens that they will be able to obtain a share of the social property. After 1 million of us have filed their certificates in peds because you've assured us that the investment in them is the safest. However, the operations of the pids have been born, resulting in the fact that more than half of the Slovenians have not received an adequate share of the common property once. The government was certainly obliged to prevent anomalies from operating on pids, but it did not. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you why you do not allow all these Slovenians to obtain the real value of the property they have in certificates through state bonds, which citizens would receive instead of unused shares of certificates entered in peds. Just before May Day, the government allocated a good 35 billion toll of additional assets to fill 84 billion tolls of the deep privatisation deficit. It intended the shares of companies of the Slovenian Development Company, shares and shares of companies transferred by the Slovenian Compensation and Capital Company of pension and disability insurance to the country in exchange for bank shares, part of the assets of the Italian Power Plants of Šostjanj, Brestanica and Trbovlje, and shares of companies that are pidom destined for property law. This time the offer of investments is even worse than in the case of Slovenian ironworks. The quality of the property offered is poor, as several companies are eligible for liquidation or bankruptcy. What does that mean for the Piduvian shareholders? The property of the Piduvian shareholders will be very small and because it is the largest part of the participants in the property transformation, this means that they will be defrauded for what they have been promised. Citizens, there are over a million of us, as I have already said, who have submitted our certificates to the peds, because we have not had other options or were very few, and among them there are many farmers and their family members, we have already received much less than those who have traded them for shares of good companies. The country must also respect the fundamental principles of fairness, good business practices, and we believe that such an offer is not appropriate. On this occasion, the Secretary of State has stated that we will not get any less citizens than those who have invested in bad companies. Is our country a bad company you've been running for many years, Mr President? The country should show more fairness and fairness to its own citizens because it has sufficient quality assets, for example in banks, insurance companies that could use it to fill this gap. Has the government opted for a slower filling of the privatisation deficit with poorer assets because it has found that the pids have failed to fulfill their mission? Why not also offer citizens a different choice and issue them securities for the non-cashing of certificates with which they themselves would directly participate in the privatisation of state property? This would reduce the negative impact of pids on the ownership structure of Slovenian companies. Studies show that pids concentrate their equity. This raises concern for many citizens about the ownership role of pids. As the government is late in legislation that will, in the example of the developed countries, regulate the operation of investment funds, it is unclear what the role of the future pids will play. In view of that, I'm asking you when we're going to get returns from our pid shares. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dr. Janez Drnovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you. Well, that question has been on the table for quite some time. This year, the government is trying to complete the process of acquiring or transferring state property to pubs and legally so-called privatisation holes. As you yourself have mentioned, we have recently taken a significant step forward by identifying some 35 billion peds and remaining about 49 billion, which we intend to close or fill in in the next step or two. I heard about pid complaints, and they wrote me a letter saying they weren't satisfied with the quality of the property. Well, the view of this is that, of course, property can be slightly better, slightly worse, but it's different species. And the pids just have to deal with getting some average assets. So sometimes - sometimes a little better, somewhere else a little worse if I speak relatively. It seems to me that their activity is too focused on this issue alone, thus diverting attention to the fact that this is the reason for their possible poor business, but you have already warned yourself, of course, that there are still quite a number of questions still open about the functioning of the pids, with the optimal functioning of them and probably also the question of the likely improvement of the regulation in this area. I agree that this issue is open and that we are also studying in the government from this point of view to try to see what improvements could be made in this area. So the government will certainly try to close this privatisation hole to the end now and thus close this kind of discussion, and I hope that then, as you have already indicated, it will also focus on the issue of quality, not only of property, but of the functioning of pids. In this regard, I propose that there is something more to tell us, perhaps, that the Secretary of State, who is still a few minutes ago - is still there - Mr Pirkmajer, if more details are needed regarding this property. Probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dr. Edo Pirkmeier, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. We will also prepare more detailed information in this regard in writing. Allow me to point out, however, that with your questions you have actually opened a dilemma that never existed. In order to allow shareholders to receive their shareholdings from the assets they have set up. This would be contrary to the company law, and therefore a special law would be needed and, as far as the pike is concerned, such proposals have not yet been made. It is always a matter of ensuring to shareholders, pids, that the certificates contained in their portfolio will be exchanged for appropriate assets. So far, the operation of pids has shown that despite the certificates submitted, shares of these pids are worth slightly less, but very close to the average of other Slovenian companies. Thus, the claim that those shareholders who have submitted their certificates would be completely deprived of their share would not, of course, be sustainable. The second issue, which is important and which the government deals with - and this, the former and the former - is how and in what way is most appropriate to fill the certificate gap. This is because the government has already adopted, in its previous and previous composition, the decisions in which this property has been identified and is now in the process of being transferred. The issue remains open in some areas, for example in the area of insurance, where the original concept of insurance ownership was substantially amended by the last decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the share of insurance companies available to authorised investment companies is likely to be slightly lower. It is also envisaged to fill the privatisation deficit of shares of companies within the Slovenian development society. We can expect a future package, which will be prepared sometime in June or July, is said to be about a quarter of the privatisation deficit at the beginning of this year. For the remainder, electricity companies are also available. It was right here to reorganise electricity companies into holding earlier and then to devote themselves to this, to this end, to the shares of this complex. I expect that we will soon be able to come up with more detailed information and then we will also answer the remaining, unanswered questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovska. We're moving on. The next government representatives will be asked a question by Mr Sašo Pece. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Your Honor! Dearly represented, my question is also in the context of, say, privatisation holes. I am pleased that Mr Drnovšek is still present, although he has only the answers to three questions, I sincerely hope that he will answer the next question, which is, for example, a somewhat more human nature than the question of the speaker before me. The fact is that, despite the Prime Minister's speech on dialogue or this kind of discussion, this government shut itself down when it spoke about privatisation; that it did not seek an interlocutor in this National Assembly; and, indeed, that the government representatives in this National Assembly themselves wanted such activities to take place in the form of a monologue when representatives of government parties refused to control, let's say, the sale of our assets. But because it was partly already answered, and really only partially, in that form, 'but, since you are not asking, you will finally get the report and accept that report, whatever it is, you will not be able to influence it. And you can only take the decision to get acquainted with this," today at the initial stage of this sale, I would ask you in particular for the opinion of the social partners on the emergence of new unemployed in our country by transferring this amount of companies currently owned by the SRD to a pid that will be sold out on the market in any way, regardless of the programmes currently taking place in these companies, irrespective of the financial situation prevailing in these companies, and regardless of where these companies operate. So regardless of the micro, macro, or unemployment rates in this country, as well as the development of the region in this country. I would therefore ask you, or ask you not, what or whether programmes have already been prepared to ensure this increased number of unemployed persons in the Republic of Slovenia, caused by you government representatives, by your way of filling this privatisation gap. According to the social partners, as I mentioned at the outset, there are about cca employees in these companies today. 9,500 workers. According to their rough calculations, nice calculations, this way of privatising transfers to the new ownership structure is expected to lead to an additional 2,000 new unemployed persons in our country. In addition to limiting programmes, subsidies and aid to countries currently operating in some of these companies. Please inform me and probably the wider Slovenian public about the programs, what and how you will help these people who are on purpose today, because you are unable to fill the privatisation holes in some normal way and go, as a bad master, by the line of least resistance to the simple sale of your property. Please, because I do not believe that I will get an oral answer that will satisfy me, and I do not believe that the oral answer will be such that I can reach it over so long and so long as the dilemma of the reprivatisation gap will again unfold, because with the privatisation system you will achieve only that the privatisation hole will increase to give me an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. There's only so much to explain, Mr. Sasha Pece. This opportunity is intended for oral questions, or you will receive a written answer to your written question. Does he want a representative of the government? Mr. Edo Pirkmeyer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. As the honourable Member has already requested, we will give a written answer to this question. However, I can certainly say that the transfer of ownership is not the one that would allow or prevent a different development programme. The key issue here is that in this national council, the adoption of the State Aid Act has limited the possibility of subsidising the operation of individual companies and that in the future, there will be an end to those aid to individual undertakings which are based on measures that can be understood as interfering with the competitive capacity of individual companies, I stress, individual companies. However, all programmes of a horizontal nature are not such that they are only possible in enterprises owned directly or indirectly by the State and also intended for private companies; and those programmes should not, in principle, be affected by changes in the ownership structure in companies. We have also received such assurances from the associations of management companies, and we can also compare the operations of those companies that have already or have already passed into their own pids, and there have been no major anomalies. So I do not deny the need for a more detailed analysis, which we will certainly prepare. However, I think that the fear expressed by the honourable Member is entirely exaggerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Now, if I understand you correctly, the Slovenian government has not yet prepared a programme of assistance for those people who will lose their jobs with this activity. It's beautiful, it's nothing, but I didn't want to do it. [[...]] You know, privatisation has already taken place after about this pattern. And it was this privatisation that caused this privatisation gap. So don't say there's no reason, let's say, in your black eye, for a black look into the future of Slovenia. It's not my purpose here today to, say, fuck you. My aim is only to try, if not already the other members of the National Assembly, who have strongly opposed the Commission on Oversight, to monitor these activities in this country, to at least arouse in you the positive one that, in the opinion of the social partners, you will actually find a suitable solution for the 2 000 people who will lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Dorian Maršič, Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, has the floor. Mr. Marshich is not here. We're moving on. The next question is the question put by Mr Bojan Kontic, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Bojan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'm sending a question to the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, but I don't see it here, and it's probably someone from the Ministry of Health. Otherwise, I will ask, of course, for a written answer. Two months ago, I asked the Minister a question on the status of health homes and the granting of concessions. I am convinced that two months was too short to establish the rules for the award of concessions and the establishment of relations that will be in line with the national programme adopted, which I hope is also binding on the Minister. I know that the Minister will speak more extensively on Friday at the meeting with the mayors, so today I am asking a question with different content, but important for the implementation of the National Health Programme until 2004. I would like to know how far the ministry is by preparing standardization or, rather, dividing work for diagnostic procedures and treatment procedures before sending patients to a secondary or tertiary level. Simply stated; what patients can expect a doctor to do with the purpose of diagnosis in the general infirmary before he directs us to a specialist and what diagnostic tools he can use and, of course, vice versa; what we can accept from a general doctor when we return from a specialist and have prescribed therapy by a specialist, which can therefore require high costs for the primary level of health care. How will you approach the solution to the lack of doctors? According to my information, there's a shortage of circa. 70 doctors to carry out the healthcare programme. This lack, of course, results in pressure on existing doctors and also dissatisfaction on both the part of providers and users of health services. And when I'm on staff, do you think the current way of approving specializations and the problem of funding these people are adequately resolved? According to the information I have, this is the biggest problem in the field of dental care. If, of course, the matter does not move, we will be without specialists in this area for a while. Shortly after 1990, in our country, a coordinated project of pre-hospital units was the most technically equipped and professional emergency intervention services organised outside hospitals. At the same time, a network of 12 such units was established. While funding is glass, only about 60%, which means financial problems for the providers of these services. When will the funding be fully managed? Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I think I'll give you an answer. Secretary of State, mag. Simon the Supreme, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Thank you, Mr Kontic, too, for the question. I welcome all Members, including on behalf of the Minister, who apologizes for not being able to be present today and has authorized me to represent the position of the Ministry of Health. With regard to your introductory announcement, I can cheer you up with the information that the regulation is or that the rules on the award of concessions are just before we prepare them. This is essentially a very large issue that does not have some precise basis in existing legislation. So here we face a lot of questions that we have to answer. Today, however, I have put forward a preliminary study of the proposal to issue a regulation on concessions in the public health service. Well, the promise of a minister from two meetings is certainly coming true. All your other questions are, unfortunately, unfortunately, from the point of view of the citizens involved in money in some way. I know or we all know that our wishes, our awareness of the health needs of this country and our citizens are extremely high. On the other hand, we are faced with the problem that the funds are limited, although we are earmarking for health care about the same percentage of gross social product as they are intended for developed countries, that is 7.3% of gross social product, which is in fact an absolute share of three times less than a similar share in developed countries. If I say by example, we spend $700 a year on a citizen in Slovenia for health care, in Germany about $2,000 - of course what can be done with this money! The diagnostic tools that can be used by the general doctor are related to this money. Here we need to find some way to place these diagnostic tools or diagnostic methods among the primary, general, and specialist health care. Well, here we are facing a system that we have created to properly distribute this money that is available to us in order to carry out our health activities, this is a system of partnership bargaining. This model includes the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, the Ministry of Health and Health Service Providers, represented by the Association of Health Institutions and various other associations, the Medical Chamber and so on. We are currently preparing this model, partly defined in the 2001 general agreement, and we will partially agree on it in the field agreement for general and outpatient activities. How do we approach the issue of lack of doctors? You have provided information that - according to your information or according to the Health programme for up to 2004 - 70 doctors, you probably think of general doctors. We're taking on this problem. We are trying to follow the needs and define in this general agreement or partnership to negotiate a larger number of teams to carry out health activities, but unfortunately again this is linked to the issue of money; it is said how much money we have available each year to extend the healthcare programme. Each year it is about the share of money that arises from the rise in gross social product or a little less because wages do not follow. So this year we share a few billion in more than 300 billion dollars for additional programmes, and we need to share that money among other health activities, not just during basic health activities. Well, a few extra teams are still showing up here. System of specialisation - whether it is adequately resolved. We are working intensively, again in the framework of a partnership agreement, with this system. We've come up with some solutions. In the general agreement for the previous year, we have tried solutions to regulate specialisation through: either the Medical Chamber or the Association of Health Services. Well, we are counting on a 2001 agreement or an annex to this agreement to resolve this issue. However, this agreement is still a little better due to disagreement between the individual partners. The pre-hospital units project, which you say is being funded now with 60%, here again I can respond in this way that this year an additional 200 million has been earmarked for the emergency medical care project and this money, of course, under a certain key, is dedicated to the implementation of this activity - including the pre-hospital units. We are aware that this money is not enough, we are trying to gain it more, and we hope that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic is pleased. We're moving on. Mr Ivan Bozič, SLS+SKD Slovenian People's Party has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All government representatives, representatives of the government, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament are warmly welcomed! Two questions. The first is to the Minister or Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. How does the Ministry feel about such a drastic decline in the number of births of children in the Republic of Slovenia? I'm coming from the Upper School and we started closing down kindergartens and branch schools. There's gonna be a hole. The second question is addressed to the Minister or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. When will the law on the University of the Sea be written? I spent a little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. These are examples of brief and concise questions. First, I give Dr. Vlad Dimovski the floor to the first question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We all know that demographic policy and overall population growth in Slovenia are problematic. I would therefore remind you of some of these analyses and some of the programmes actually presented in this area. As one of course, the problem we have is that we are actually a modern society, as far as demographic policy is concerned. And here I would like to remind you of some of the analyses that Professor Vogelnik and Professor Malačič have already done in this area. This is because, as population growth, we have defined the so-called difference between Natalie, Mortality and so-called migration flows. As far as the first one is concerned, I could say that it depends on the degree in which we are in the demographic phase or demographic cycle. I'd say we're in a phase where natility and mortality are very low, which means, by Professor Vogelnik and Professor Malačič, that we've been through this so-called demographic transition. So we have a situation where it's actually low birthrate and low mortality. That's like one. And here, of course, we could talk about the conditions of mortality, natility and, of course, these migratory flows. Since migration flows are essentially dependent on the labour market, which is more or less open. In this respect, we assume - and we have already written this in the labour market development strategy by 2006 - that we will probably be a labour importer country, probably within three to four years. At that time, it is likely that this migratory flow will be somewhat different from today. As far as the factor of nativity and mortality is concerned, nativity is, of course, essential to conditions; that is to say, to the conditions provided by the state: so-called family policies, then living conditions and so on. In doing so, all research and analysis shows that housing is a very important factor or housing policy. And I think there's one situation here that we could somehow improve. On the other hand, the country can, by means of the various instruments it has within the framework of demographic policy, the one that promotes nativity. And here I would like to remind you that already in this year's budget we have transfers for this area, which are reflected in children's allowances and other instruments, which is estimated to be 86 and several billion, which is one of the biggest transfers. So it's probably not just a question of scale - I could say - of these means, but it also depends, of course, on how these funds are directed, how these funds are directed. You know that we have in preparation - and I hope that as soon as possible - the law on parenting and family benefits will also be in place, which will be some additional incentives in this area, which will in some way reflect in the direction of raising birthrates. On the other hand, the question of mortality is, of course, the other factor that is largely dependent on health care. And the share of health care in the total gross domestic product is 7, 7, 1, 7.2 per cent at the moment. As far as the rest is concerned, the government programme and also the coalition programme outline what legal projects are actually envisaged in this area. Finally, I would say that the situation, as far as the number of live births is concerned after years, is in 2000, but this is a good information for Slovenia, which was higher in 2000 than it had been in previous years. So the number of live births in the past year increased from 17 thousand 300 to 18 thousand 200. Now, here is this data, which is now from the Statistical Office of Slovenia. Another thing, another - in my opinion - is this, from demographic statistics, that the so-called net reproduction coefficient is 1.01, which means that after many years the population in Slovenia is actually increasing. But this is some kind of answer that we can share, but in the analytical part, we can share it with family politics and in short, you wanted some more written, and we will also write it in writing, so that you will have the whole analytical picture in front of you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The second answer will be - I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Dr. Lucia Chok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office. I thank Mr Christmas for this question and would answer him, to the extent possible, briefly about the procedures that would lead to what you asked or to what you probably wanted as an answer. An expert group was already appointed in 2000 with the Government to prepare the basis for the establishment of the University of Primorsk. This is what this government inherited, this group has slightly complemented and strengthened with members of local communities, institutions that have already carried out higher education in Primorska and economies. This government group is preparing the basis for the decision establishing the University of Primorsk, which has a few other dilemmas within certain solutions that I will quickly mention. You will soon receive the National Higher Education Programme to Parliament, which is under second reading. In this part, of course, a strategy for the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia is laid down in relation to international integration or in view of the design of an international higher education space, which we design after a blog declaration. By way of derogation, Slovenia is a member of 35 [[Now they've joined the new three, before they were 32.]] European countries that form a common higher education space. So the new university, when it comes to it, must follow these principles of re-education of higher education. However, it can be produced in two ways: whether it comes from the integration and integration of existing higher education institutions in the coast, containing approximately 6,000 students, of which about 300 in Goriška, remained in the coastal area, which is, of course, a long process, because some of them are part of the University of Ljubljana and must first be separated from the previous founder; the second option is to establish a university on a new basis based on independent higher education institutions operating in this coastal area, but must ensure quality, legal basis, programmes that go into the world of higher education. Therefore, this Commission will prepare this document, send it to the Council for Higher Education for an opinion, and then prepare a proposal for a decree for the National Assembly. We're counting on this to happen in the coming half-year period in case things run smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, a supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	It's not a complementary question, just a little comment. About the most beautiful alpine valley in our country, Trenti, we've written dozens of analyses. Just: Trent's empty. And I hope that the decree on the University of the Sea will be written soon, or we will go to Europe and there are many universities on a short relationship across the state border.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	I would remind, of course, as I have already said, that five universities in the border area are on the Italian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Dr. Michael Brejc, Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I forgive myself for asking Mr Kopač a question that is very troubled by insomnia; perhaps this will wake him up to my question. So it's a government law and energy coming under the Ministry of Environment and Space. I don't know, of course you won't remember that at the time that this bill was in Parliament, I mentioned that a whole series of solutions were incompatible with European regulation. Well, here I would ask Minister Kopač whether his ministry is organised in terms of content and scope, in accordance with the European directives, but I will not ask this question because I know that he would answer that question. But I'm saying it isn't. That's why I'm making the following statement. Look, the Krsko nuclear power plant is producing nuclear energy, which everyone knows. The operator is, of course, responsible for the safe operation of the power plant and this is also in line with international practice. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety, which, of course, exercises control of the nuclear power plant, shall determine whether the nuclear power plant operates in accordance with the applicable legislation. With the reorganisation in energy, both the Krška nuclear power plant and the Nuclear Safety Authority within the same Ministry operate. This is not in accordance with international recommendations or requirements. This is a conflict of interest, because the supervisory authority and the energy manufacturer must be separate. I'd like to remind you of a document that has the title of the Security Collection. 110, The security of the 1995 nuclear facilities, which was also prepared and issued by the International Nuclear Safety Agency in Vienna, which, inter alia, states, quote: "The government must establish a legislative and constitutional framework for regulating nuclear facilities. There must be a clear delimitation of responsibilities between the administrative authority and between the operational organisation. A fundamental responsibility for security must be assigned to the operational organisation. In fact, the administrative authority must be independent of organisations or bodies that promote and exploit nuclear energy. He must be responsible for issuing licences, administrative control and enforcement and so on." I therefore ask the Minister, given that I claim that our regime is contrary to European regulation and practice: Will you, Mr Minister, also act in accordance with the European scratch in this case, or will you ignore the provisions on nuclear safety and security of nuclear facilities? However, the second question I am referring to the Minister of Defence, who is not here. It is a festive academy on the day of the Slovenian Army on 11 May in Cankarjev dom. We have found that the festive academy did not start with the national anthem, nor with the anthem of the Slovenian army. At this festive academy at the 10th anniversary of the Slovenian army there was no flag: neither the state nor individual tribes of the Slovenian army. We believe that this celebration was a real disgrace to the Slovenian army and to all those who lead it. I ask the Minister how it is possible for the festive academy to take place without state symbols, without an anthem, without a flag at the 10th anniversary of the Slovenian army. How is this possible to ignore the fundamental characteristics of the country in an independent Slovenian country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The first question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, Mag. Janez the Digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dr. Brace, you've made some very illogical claims. The illogical claim is that the administrative authority and the operational organisation are within one ministry. That's not true! The rescue organisation is called the Krško nuclear power plant and is a separate company. The Administrative Authority shall be the Nuclear Security Administration. It works within the Ministry of Environment and Space, even within another ministry, could even be a stand-alone agency and the like, but all of this is completely irrelevant. It is a matter of chance that the state co-owners of the Krško nuclear power plant, such as the owner of the Sava power plants or anything, or any similar company, of the power-generating production company. Therefore, of course, the answer is very clear: the organisation of the ministry is exactly the same as the recommendations you quoted, and of course means the separation of the administrative authority from the operational organisation. There's no doubt about that. Well, the fact is, in fact, we have within the Ministry of Environment and Space - and this is only because of the illustration - of the so-called potential conflicts even a number of years ago, irrespective of the reorganisation of a month ago. For example, the Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible for the issue of location and construction permits for state infrastructure facilities, and this is the first-degree and second-degree issuer of location and construction permits and the appeal authority, within the same Ministry, within the same department, but these are two services. And I assure you that these two jobs are talking to each other as if they were not in two ministries, but in two countries. Therefore, of course, I do not think there is any fear that would in any way compromise the way in which the Krška nuclear power plant works, following the law amending the law on the organisation and work of ministries. This claim, with this design you've done here, I find it actually ridiculous. The fact is, of course, that the Nuclear Security Authority is competent to do what it does. And if she doesn't do well, we'll pull the strings. The fact is that the management or director of a company called the Krška nuclear power plant is competent to do what it does, both under the company law, public economic services, because the Krško nuclear power plant is still a public undertaking and under the sectoral legislation governing the operation of nuclear power producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In this part of the supplemental question, Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	I do not think that there is a need for a complementary question in such an answer. Because this answer shows that the Minister does not know the structure of public administration, does not know what a true subjectivity is, but, above all, ignores, again, the provisions of an international nuclear security agency which speaks precisely about these matters. And he's talking to us here about things that I haven't even asked, and I haven't even talked to anyone. For example, I didn't mention in a word that nuclear safety would be compromised. I'm just talking about incompatibilities. For if earlier, if previously, the Ministry of Economic Affairs was responsible for the field of energy, it was another entity within the state administration, but now it is all within one. And if Mr Minister now makes an argument, "contrary" something that is, say, what he already said: two departments or two jobs, which are very independent of each other. This has nothing to do with my question, and I don't know who he was telling. So, of course, I can only find out that he didn't throw away what I said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I must reiterate that legal personality means two separate organisations. And nuclear security administrations are just one of the administrations within the state administration, but the management of one company is something else, something that actually has nothing to do with public administration. And so, of course, anyone who asks the question of the incompatibilities of control over the operation of an activity within a single department is, in fact, confusing the notion of how work in a particular company and in public administration is arranged. I will say again: your thesis would be justified only if the nuclear safety administrations were not, but that the nuclear safety management staff would be an organisational unit within the Ministry of the Environment and Space and that the employees at the Krsko nuclear power plant would be a overhead plant within the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, because they are in a separate company, which is even in favour of the Republic of Croatia, it is not necessary for the state to be co-owner, because it can once be a private company, then, of course, it is one purely independent company, and of course, the administration works as it should, and is located at, in my opinion, the most appropriate place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dr. Brejc's second question will be answered by a representative of the Ministry of Defence, State Secretary Dr. Tomaž Time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable President, honourable Members and honourable Members, who asked a question regarding the festive academy which was held at Cankarjev on 11 May, would say that this was only one of the events in the context of the celebrations on the day of the Slovenian Army. The celebration, as you mentioned, was at the 10th anniversary in Pekrah, 18.5. where there was an anthem, where there was a military anthem, where there were flags, and on 11 May there was a concert of the Slovenian army in Cankarjev dom. I have to say that I have not personally participated in the organisational committee, I will look into these matters and give a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Here you go, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	The invitations we received included the "Celebrities Academy on the Day of the Slovenian Army". And your answer, of course, is by no means sufficient. And I'm asking for a written answer. But I would tell Mr. Copacz to read a textbook on public administration, at least to know where it belongs. Public companies are part of public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I think Dr. Time has promised a written answer to your second question. Mr Ivan Mamić, the Nova Slovenija Group, is next in line for the question. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! This is where history repeats itself. I had a question for two ministers last month, and they got away from me. Now Minister Kicker has escaped me too, so the question for him, please, when he comes back to allow me. I refer the first question to Minister Gantar about the white fox. When he presented himself as a candidate for the Minister of Communications, we asked him a question about these white foxes. He said this thing would go away as soon as possible. And I want to know how specific this is. Of course, I am most interested in the western part of Slovenia, this is the whole of Primorska. And this question has already been raised once. Because it's radio communications, that's especially for Radio Fireplace, then for television connections, I was told in Kobarid, Bovec and Tolmin, all over the valley. But most critical of all is in Subregion, this is between Sol and Kalcami. There's nothing there: no cell phone, no TV, no radio, except I think Val 202 is hunting, slightly worse Slovenia 1. And people are outraged that we do not answer about the road, for I already have that answer. The place is demographically endangered, and with the infrastructure they have, it's sad. If we go to Europe with a place like this. I don't know. I want an answer. [[...]] Can I ask another question after Mr. Digger arrives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Please, my colleague asked me a question. Can the Secretary of the digger answer? The Minister of Gantar will answer first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you so much for asking. Around the white foxes I must say that we are clearly aware of this problem. I know it sounds like a phrase, too. A lot of people knew that before I did. But these white foxes are still there. The fact is that these white foxes are negative in terms of population decline and so on where there are certain trends in social, economic and spatial development. Of course, at the Ministry we are preparing a special programme, which is in line with this, including the E-Europe Plus programme, which is intended to ensure communication accessibility at about the same level for all people and residents of Slovenia, including the possibility of supporting certain local programmes and local connections and accessibility. In particular, on the question of white foxes, in specific locations and places, we will provide you with a written answer. If you got this answer in advance, of course, you could prepare it; otherwise it is clear that at a purely specific location, what is there and how problems are happening and what is there to do, at this point, clearly, I cannot answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. That's an extra question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Can you promise me that you will stick to the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	The clerk has to stick to it. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My friend Jelinčič has the floor. There's no Minister the Ripper. Please, Comrade Jelinčič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister a question; first, let me explain some of the events. The neighbouring Croatia formed as an Independent State of Croatia in 1941 on 10 April, 6 days after the German attack on Yugoslavia, even 7 days before the surrender of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, at the time of the entry of the 14th Armoured German Division into Zagreb. On June 15, 1941, this is said to have joined the triple pact, namely the forces of the Axis, the Pact of Germany, Italy and Japan; in short, the Nazi Fascist Coalition. In this regard, I ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will draw up documents that will put neighbouring Croatia in the place to which it belongs and whether we will raise the issue of reparations and the payment of war damage by Nazi Fascist invaders. It is also a matter of the issue of Slovenian borders and borders, which have never been established in any state, international, inter-State, inter-ministerial or any other agreement, what we will do with them. And whether we're going to include them in the question of success. I think that Slovenia should connect on this issue with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are likely to raise the same question. The fact is that Croatia occupy a large part of Slovenian territory, and the undeniable fact is that these are territories that do not historically belong to them. I think that the country of Slovenia should have done this a long time ago and open this chapter in international forums. Then I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior what's going on with Major Troch. This is an eloquent case of state terrorism, which is already being discussed in Western Europe and which is already raising dust in Western Europe. And I'm asking why nothing is done, why things are hiding. And if you're looking for a lost mountaineer with 50 men, a helicopter or two, why isn't Major Troch looking? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. First, Dr. Rupel, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bohinc, will respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! You have given some historical facts; most of these facts cannot be contested. However, of course, the foreign ministry is not primarily concerned with historical facts, but it is concerned, I would say, with the management of current problems and current relations between countries, between our country and international organisations and so on. With regard to relations between Slovenia and Croatia, I would like to tell you that despite all the problems that Slovenia and Croatia are continuing to discuss at this time, there are also some types of negotiations on how to resolve relations in the future or how the problems that exist between these two countries can be solved. There are no historical themes on the agenda of our discussions, although of course I do not rule out the possibility that one day we might start discussions with neighbouring Croatia about the history of our relations, as we have done and as we will do with some other neighbouring countries. At the same time, I would like to remind in particular that both countries, Slovenia and Croatia, come from a common country of the SFRJ and that, as regards the clearance of the past, this concerns in particular the past in the SFRJ, says Yugoslavia. In particular, we need to regulate certain relations because of Yugoslavia and because of the common past in it. One of the issues in this regard is the issue of Slovenian or Slovenian-Croatian borders. Kolga Jelinčič says that the Slovenian-Croatian borders are undefined. The fact is that some of the borders are actually undefined, and here I am thinking mainly of the border at sea. There has never been a boundary at sea between Slovenia and Croatia in the past, and this border must therefore be established. Otherwise, the boundaries are set. We are in the constitutional documents that we have adopted - both countries have adopted constitutional documents of the same kind. We have written in these documents that the border between the state of Slovenia and Croatia stands where once the border between the Republics of Slovenia and Croatia was within the SFRJ. So that in principle we have boundaries set and also in some way described. At the same time, however, we have a diplomatic commission dealing with some details and which I hope will finally finish its work soon. This work is also related to or in relation to what I said earlier, namely that we have ongoing talks and negotiations with Croatia and that we hope to get to the end of them as soon as possible. I would like to avoid any overly dramatic words about relations between countries, because I feel that dramatic words do not contribute to solving the problems on the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Rupel. On behalf of the Ministry of Interior, you would like to answer a second question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Jelinčič. I would like to apologize to the Minister who is on a working visit to Hungary and who will give the Ministry a written answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I accept what Mr Bulgarian has said, and I expect a written reply. As for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, however, it must be said that the borders are not actually set. They were determined only by a diplomatic commission. And given the agreement with 26.6.1991, we as a country - Slovenia is not obliged to respect this agreement - because neighbouring Croatia has tried to change borders for its own benefit and to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia by several international acts. In this case, the agreement between the two countries no longer holds. That's not the limit. What is agreed upon by the diplomatic commission is largely at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why this diplomatic commission has already simply thrown two members of the diplomatic commission out before, who have advocated Slovenian starting points and a fair border. Undoubtedly, in the case of Slovenia and Croatia, there are two new countries. In the case of new countries, however, all historical facts must be taken into account, for in the former SFRY, for the sake of fraternity and unity, it was not allowed to talk about all outstanding issues during World War II. And in the event that Slovenia wants to settle these problematic issues due to its entry into the European Union, it must be said that this does not play any role when it enters the European Union. Take the example of Cyprus, which is divided, which on the distribution line is even causing conflicts with the victims, but Europe wants to take Cyprus into its wing even earlier than the Republic of Slovenia. I ask why the Slovenian Government avoids this issue and why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not prepare and form a certain commission, including those experts who have to solve the problem in favour of Slovenia, which means in favour of the real facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	Would you like to further explain your views? Dr. Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Jelinčič! First of all, I would like, of course, to deny as much determination as possible your base that it is not for our benefit to Slovenia. I think such a subterfuge or such a claim would be difficult to prove. I think that our ministry and the government are doing their utmost to represent the benefits of Slovenia as much as possible. There is also a diplomatic commission in this function. Don't just believe the rumors, but make sure. I'm willing to give you any information you might be interested in. In our diplomatic commission or in a mixed committee, there are very sharp debates about many of the issues that you have just discussed. Do not be afraid that Slovenia will act in any way to the detriment of itself or this commission to the detriment of Slovenia. That's what I guarantee you. Of course, we can talk about concrete information later and on the basis of documents. I am glad to have you reminding me of the problems between Slovenia and Croatia. I am pleased that, even in this House, I would say, the government and there is a high sensitivity to Slovenian Croatian relations. I must tell you that there is a great deal of sensitivity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these relations as well. We try, where possible, to show this sensitivity in an appropriate way. For example, you know that a day or two ago there was some damage to Slovenian national symbols in an area where the border is not definitively defined. It's the Sečovje. This is where our ministry is constantly, and I'd say it's a constant reminder of these things. This is how we will react in this regard this time, as we have already explained in public. We do not think it is impossible to conduct sober, smart and useful negotiations, to fight for the benefit of the country, ours or the other side if incidents occur and if someone causes incidents. I think that in fact our country has always adhered to the agreement that it does not cause any incidents and that it is extremely abstaining in the course of negotiations and talks. As far as entering the European Union is concerned, you are right, and I thank you for your view. I think it is quite clear that any problems that Slovenia and Croatia would have had could not keep Slovenia from entering the European Union. There has never been a talk about this in our discussions with the European Union. The Slovenian government does not avoid and does not intend to avoid issues related to this in the future. With regard to the benefits of Slovenia, believe me, fellow Member, that we are as sensitive as you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by colleague Kavtičnik. Don't you? You're moving away from the question. That's why my colleague Montenegro has the word. Please, colleague nigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well hailed, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, ministers and ministers! Today I ask you a question, Minister Lucia Chok. As you are aware, the first phase of the construction of the UKL, the University Library of Ljubljana, has been completed, in some ways including the renovation of the old Plečnik house and the acquisition of the building land. Building land is actually acquired by almost 85%. A partial location decision, design documentation for the building permit, is also being prepared. In the course of the discussion and adoption of the 2001 budget, we have also tabled amendments to complement and facilitate this year's processes and all necessary actions for the further construction of the Ljubljana University Library. The amendment was rejected. At that time, you promised at a meeting of the National Assembly that you would try to resolve this mess with certain redistributions. You also indicated the possibility of offering to the National Assembly changes and additions to the passed law on the construction of the University Library of Ljubljana in 1994. I therefore ask you, given that in the forecast for the National Assembly for June and July, I have found that there is no law, whether you are preparing the law and when you intend to submit this law to the National Assembly for consideration. As you are aware, Plečnikov NUK was built from 1928 to 1941 and the current construction of the University Library Ljubljana began in 1989. We're in 2001 today, and I'm afraid we're going to get past this deadline somehow. In view of the need to plan tasks for the next two years, I ask you how and how you plan to resolve this mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you for asking. Dr. Chokov, Minister of Education, would you like to respond? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you so much for asking. True, we talked a lot about this at the budgetary hearing. In fact, I would like to introduce you to what we have done since then. First, I must say that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport strongly supports this project. It believes that the project is of national importance and will do everything in its power not to stop the project. The law with the working title, in fact today we can call the work title, the University Library in Ljubljana, has indeed expired. That's why we did the following. We've prepared changes and additions in the first fact, first I'll say so. [[...]] We have prepared and completed the report, first of all a report on the funds used so far for the construction of the building, namely a billion 833 million from the budget and about a billion from the City of Ljubljana. The draft is already in place, in coordination with the Ministry of Culture in the short term and with the Municipality of Ljubljana in order to join the National Assembly. This report will take place in the National Assembly, coordinated by all three investors in the project so far. The acquisition and preparation of land for construction is continuing. There are some problems with denationalization. The construction committee is also continuing its work, although now it is in a somewhat strange situation because the law has expired. We continue to review the programmes. In cooperation with the University of Ljubljana, we found that on the basis of already designed programmes, e.g. Central Technical Libraries and other Faculty Libraries are likely to need re-checking programmes that have been set up by the project. Of course, we are finally preparing amendments and additions to the new law in order to join the National Assembly together with the report. In this law, new stages, institutions, and partly the status of this library, will be put into place, as we see throughout the review that this is a national library and university library. We have to have both determinants in the new address. At least that's what all future users of this library are proposing. We have already contacted the Committee on Education, Science, Culture and Sport and have agreed with the chairman of the Committee that this report and the proposal for amendments and additions should come to the Committee in June. Of course, he has to go to the government first. We expect that in June we will certainly send this material to the government to be processed and that it should appear on your counters no later than September. The budget planning, in the first draft sent to us from the Ministry of Finance, which we completed a week ago, is foreseen for 2002, 2003 after 3 billion per year for the continuation of the project. However, we also want inter-sectoral coordination within the government regarding the funding resources of the project and the institutions, as the project is now worth 13 billion. That 6 billion, of course, will not be enough. We need to organize ourselves so the library can be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Okay. Then my friend Levich has the floor. Please. Madam Secretary, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a matter for the Ministry of Education and Sport. In June 1999, Slovenia, together with other European countries, signed a Bologna Declaration, which obliges Slovenia to adapt Slovenian higher education to the European one. We know how much difference there are between a study in Slovenian college or one of the universities in European cities. We have heard that a number of changes are needed in Slovenian higher education. One of these is the reduction in study time. Here's my first question. Won't a short period of study affect the student's acquired knowledge? The Ministry explains that the study time will be after the new 3 + 2, i.e. three for the first university degree, and two for the second "master of science" or by our "mastery". Would a student in these five years be able to acquire a knowledge that would otherwise be available in seven years, if we knew that most students are already extending their studies beyond the expected deadlines? The Ministry of Finance also mentions the financial participation of students. How much will this financial participation be, and who will determine it? If it's determined by the colleges themselves, isn't it in danger that they'll be too big and become tuitions in the long run? Will the student, on the basis of this financial participation, be able to choose his own subjects and professors in which he would like to listen to lectures and perform exams, such as in European countries? We ourselves know that the choice of subjects and lecturers today is all before the student's choice. The only thing a student can choose today is the study course, everything else is no longer in his power. In doing so, I wonder whether the university will sign a kind of contract with a student in which it will advocate that if it does not meet the conditions - because we know that students are rotting in classrooms, they are waiting for exams for 10 hours or more, we are waiting for results after a month, two, arrogant and neglecting professors, teachers are late for lectures, they are arrogant - whether the state will return money. When someone pays something, they ask for a certain guarantee of quality work done. Given the fact that the taxation of scholarships and other social transfers is forecast, of course we strongly oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party because it will again hit the pocket of the most socially disadvantaged student and additional financial participation studies, how many students will even be able to continue their studies financially? One last question. We're establishing a third university. Is there another university, I don't know, a celery region or something else? On the one hand, we are opening new universities, which is certainly very positive, and on the other hand we are abolishing the programmes that are important for joining the European Union. All I have to do here is mention the translation program. I'd like to hear some opinion on this. And that. We are aware that only with good and quality professors will students be good and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you, Comrade Levich. Once again, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Indeed, Slovenia is very active in the Bologna process. I think we are also very successful, because with the report we gave in Prague, we can be satisfied. I would like to answer some of your questions or dilemmas that you have opened very briefly. The communiqués of this Prague meeting were published on the Internet and it would be interesting to see who can see what Slovenia has also agreed to do so because it supported the communication. First, you asked about shortening studies or a two-track or two-way study 3+2. It is noted in Europe that we have a very different duration of study. "Bachelor," as we say, of course, would be equivalent to a four-year university study, and not many. It is therefore envisaged that some of the directions that are supposed to go into the profession will be what we call after other classifications in rail B or C, but not in A, because there are academic programmes there, could take 3 years. In fact, this is already partly the case in Slovenia, since we have a high professional education, which also has a practical year, a year of practice in the 4th year, or already in the second half of the 3rd year, so we already have shorter programmes such as university programmes. This does not mean that some programs, such as construction, architecture, medicine, veterinary, will be reduced. The association of architects of Europe has vigorously resisted, for example, so that such a programme could be reduced. So some programs won't be able to last for 3 years, but they're going to have to take 4 or 5. But basically, the 5-year study program is supposed to be a substitute for "master", which is called a master's degree. It is noted that the journey to the doctorate is too long and is an opportunity that opens up for students to come straight to the doctorate after a five-year study. So these are options that are still very optional. In this communication, the countries disagreed with this concept and are still in discussion until 2003 when the new meeting will take place in Berlin. Second, student participation. It is true that students played an extremely important role in this powdery meeting, were extremely well organised and achieved many things in a social sense. For example, they have achieved that the communication of studies at a high level is a public good for which the state is responsible and they have resisted this coming into private hands or into the social market where it would be traded. So college studies are public good and the responsibility is "public good". Of course, there are many ways in which students can be able to obtain long-term credits that must be guaranteed by the State or by the bail they receive if they are successfully studying or by those who are punished, of course, who do not receive a refund if they fail to complete the study. So these options are being discussed, but none of these options are yet too skeptical. The autonomy of the university does not mean that the university or college will decide in any way. I think that here the country must take a firm stand on the student side and by consensus achieve any form of participation that students should give in the future. Taxing scholarships, that saddens me if there's anything going on in this direction, especially depending on these social scholarships. I think there will always be such social-level scholarships that should not be taxed. However, this is probably the area of finance, and I will ask my financial colleague to tell us how we plan in this country. It's true. We're not building any universities yet. However, it is true that we are trying to establish a partial university in the future, which means that Slovenia will be able to obtain another university, and of course it means that this university will still be based on quality, that it will have to include programmes that will go through the review of the higher education strategies in Slovenia. The integration of the university, one that will be European comparable, is supported, this is said to have all parameters that will be comparable to accreditation with other countries. However, we must guard against very dispersed universities or scattered studies, because there are other options. Higher education studies can be produced in secondary schools; there is a great deal of interest in agriculture and other professions as well. These higher schools will be the ones that will give immediate exit to the profession, and they are not bound by the Bologna Declaration. I don't know if I've said anything or if I can do anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	Tell me, Comrade Levich, is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You've said a lot. Anyway, I'm curious. Somehow I didn't get an answer to this participation. By the way, what does a student get out of this? I come, I give 100,000 tolars, or will I get better quality studies, or will I get better professors, or will everything be the same? We know that most of these participations are paid abroad, but students have, we can call it, more rights or more participation in the study. We've been trying to get professors to grade in some colleges, but the professors are drowning in this; they themselves know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	Secretary of State Končan would also like to add an answer. First of all, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	I generally agree with you. Students, if they give something, understandably they must know why they give. In particular, see if the standard is raised and if it is possible within the selection package that the student chooses his teacher or the content that is alternative, such a program costs more. Of course, you can't charge something here that isn't, it's got to happen first. I don't think it's true that there's no evaluation. The evaluation was glass, and this project was made at the University of Ljubljana. Internal evaluation, the evaluation of the programmes itself runs right through the student questionnaires. If the glass hasn't gone anywhere yet, it means the colleges are still a little distracted. However, we have also concluded this by joining the Bologna process. I'd say the next thing. It is very important that we change institutional culture, so to speak, opinions in the heads of professors at universities. This is a process that will last longer, but is necessary for reform and a new strategy for higher education in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Secretary of State Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	Your Honor! It is known in the government's programme that it will submit a new income law to the procedural procedure this year. What will be the final solutions in the new Income Act, of course, I leave the near future. However, from the point of view of the taxation of scholarships, I must immediately stress the following matter explicitly. In the Ministry of Finance, we are very careful to examine, in terms of the findings of our tax administration, what are the possibilities of individual deviations, evasions, avoidance of tax payments through a wide variety of forms. We note that one of the most important, I am not saying that it is most important, also in terms of the payment of certain benefits in a variety of legal forms. In this context, when we explained things at some of the meetings that took place after Slovenia in May, of course, very simple conclusions were simply drawn in various records in the media, in the sense that scholarships would be specifically taxed. I firmly deny that, within the Ministry of Finance, we have thought that way or that we have told such stories. However, the fact is, as is already the case with the Minister, I must say from this fiscal point of view that there will be a limit to which, as a result of the public's known criteria, a social or state scholarship, a dedicated scholarship, to this amount, we will identify because conditions and criteria are transparent, are essentially exempt from any form of taxation. Anything that sticks to this criterion, above that value, will be as taxable as anything else. It's very simple, today, you or I, if we have company, because we are directors, owners, we can give our friend, son, child, acquaintance, whatever, give a scholarship, say, 300,000 tolars, without being taxed here. Because there are no criteria. And then this is always the subject of a dispute of arguments in tax procedures and this is the only part of it. It is said that something that goes beyond transparently identifiable criteria and conditions, which would make sense to tax so that, in the context of fiscal policy and the transfer of tax burdens, it would be evenly distributed among all those who receive tax revenue. Just so much and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is given by Comrade Podobnik, behind him by his colleague Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! My parliamentary question touches on the state pension and I therefore believe that this is an area of employment, family and social policy and I expect an answer. The brief would read as follows: Why are applications for a state pension not resolved, or why are they being disposed of so slowly? According to the data reported a few days ago, in Slovenia more than 3,000 of our citizens submitted this request. I would like to briefly explain the question. The law on pension and disability insurance brings important news. This is news to the state pension. One of the news. However, according to the law, persons who have reached the age of 65 years or since this is a previous period are entitled to apply this year for persons who have reached the age of 70 and whose own income does not exceed the property price for a security allowance of 63,272 tolars this year. The conditions are that the beneficiary has a permanent residence in Slovenia, that he has lived in Slovenia for at least 30 years, between 15 and 65 years, and that he does not have any other pension under international agreements. The right to a state pension may also be exercised by persons who have reached the age of 65 and receive a monetary allowance following the interpretation of the Centre for Social Work. I hope this information is correct, this interpretation. The typical beneficiaries of the state pension are those who have never been employed, for example, including farmers of women and households. As it is said, all these conditions meet at least three thousand Slovenian citizens and citizens. But they are waiting, waiting for further instructions from the Ministry of Labour regarding the determination of property conditions. I am aware that a directive has already been published in the Official Journal, but it still does not provide more precise explanations. This guidance should only provide once again that the determination of the property situation will take place for at least a period of time following the procedure provided for the identification of the protective allowance to which the pensioners are entitled, but those who fulfil those conditions. My question is. What will the government do to ensure that these three thousand beneficiaries and beneficiaries receive a reply as soon as possible in accordance with their legitimate right to receive an answer to their contribution or a proposal for a state pension? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Labour, Dr. Dimovski, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you so much for asking. The fact is that the Ministry of Labour is closely monitoring the implementation of the law on pension and disability insurance and has already prepared one longer analysis, which, even after the decision of the National Assembly, will submit to the National Assembly. It is also a significant number of articles that would make sense to reshape them, so that certain divestments, the operationalisation of this law, would be carried out in such a way that, of course, a better operationalisation of this law would be possible. What you have also stated arises under Article 59 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where the conditions for obtaining a state pension are specified. However, in terms of the acquisition of a state pension, as a new institution which has been introduced by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, evidence is required in contrast to other pensions. The evidentiary procedure was, of course, facilitated by an implementing regulation which we delivered to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance a month and a half ago. However, there is one problem, which is objective in nature and which, of course, is being dealt with expeditiously, namely that it is also necessary to determine the continuity of the residence, as you yourself have already stated, which is the result of Article 59 of this Law. In particular, the problem of registers that identify the residence of an individual citizen, which according to our information has been available since 1953. Therefore, some additional incentives or additional research are needed to determine the residence status of the individual applicant. As you stated, however, it takes 30 years to do so. It turns out that one of the criteria for obtaining a state pension is 30 years of life in Slovenia. So I hope that with the appropriate solutions to be followed, and of course with the efforts of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we will find out as soon as possible. I hope that we will do everything we can to ensure the smooth payment of state pensions for all applicants who will also be entitled to it. At this point, so much. However, as regards all the procedures carried out within the pension and disability insurance institution, I would also provide you with a written reply, so that we can see whether there is any other possibility of speeding up this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you. Member Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much and very much. On 25 January this year, I sent a written question to the government concerning the complications of establishing and regulating borders between the hunting grounds of the Dolenja Vas hunting family and the state hunting grounds of Sneznik. Part of the Dolenje hunting ground was taken away from this family by a decision of the Kočevje District People's Committee, dated 12.2.1950, and was transferred to the hunting grounds of the former closed area. On 10 August 2000, part of the catch was taken away by a government decision returned to the hunting family Dolenje Vasa and on 20 September 2000 an agreement was concluded between the administrative unit Ribnica and the hunting family Dolenje Vas on management. On 27 October 2000, the numbering Regulation was also published in the Official Journal. 1023012-15/97 amending the border. On 15 February 2001, the Government lifted this decision and terminated the decision of the former Government without justification. I would like to know whether appropriate procedures have been completed, given that no management arrangements have been implemented in the administrative unit. Who and on what basis does control and manage hunting? I would also like to know whether management and control are legally correct. The second question concerns a bear that has recently appeared again in enormous numbers in the municipalities of Ribnica, Sodražica, Loški brook, Velika Lašče, Good Field and elsewhere. They are kept in the immediate vicinity of the settlements, even in the village, causing damage and endangering the inhabitants. Although calls over 112 operate without errors, the mobilisation time of the intervention group is too long. For the bears usually withdraw about an hour before the group arrives, indicating that the bears are apparently warned in time. I ask what measures the government is planning to really ensure the proper safety of the population, not to repeat the disaster, to protect the assets, to ensure the safe use of agricultural and forest areas and to ensure safe routes. Will the government ensure that hazardous routes to school are co-financed? Many promises were made last year. And then there's the third question. In the last two years, there have been two major accidents in the Ribnica area during a meeting with a bear. Both victims suffered severe injuries with permanent consequences. I wonder if the damages have already been paid. And if it's not a secret maybe, how much? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Čadonic Špelič, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much for the question to the Member of Parliament. The fact is, he's listed three questions and it's not just the responsibility of our ministry. Perhaps on the first question, this is with regard to the abolition of the aforementioned decisions in the Kočevska River. Indeed, the government changed or repealed the above decisions from last year. Of course, I don't know what the explanation is. If he does not have a decision, our ministry will ensure that the explanation is written and we will inform you in writing. The other thing about bears. The area is covered by the Second Secretary of State and will give you a written reply. As far as compensation is concerned, I can ensure at this point that our ministry, together with the Ministry of Finance, is working towards paying this compensation. I may also be supplemented by Secretary of State of Končar, but the proceedings are still pending in court. You all get exactly what you need in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	I would ask you to provide me with written answers to all these questions raised. Well, the government, the ministry, the finance ministry, who's in charge of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you. The word has been given by the Member of Parliament, Mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, including you. My question is somehow complementary to the question raised by my fellow Member, Mr Tanko, already. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in its previous composition, that is, on 30 June of the previous year, imposed or adopted a decision on the Government to prepare a strategy for the conduct or management of the brown bear in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, additional conclusions were made to ensure security, equal opportunities for life in Slovenia for all people. Although the deadline was relatively short, until the July session, but in 2000, not in 2001, we have not seen this document in the National Assembly. That is why, of course, I am interested in when this document will be prepared. That's the first question. Second question. In my office, people are also talking about compensation because they don't get compensation for a bear. Some simply had to cut off the herd. On French television, I saw protests by people who were, of course, opposed to such strategies as the French Government had introduced, that is to say, to import a brown bear from Slovenia and to ensure its freedom of life. Although there are only three bears, as I am aware, and I think that one is no longer there, they have staged quite a violent protest. But obviously, our citizens are quiet, we're quiet, nothing happens, maybe because of fear, maybe because they don't expect anything from the country. Given what's going on, they probably don't expect anything from the state. The last event, which was also mentioned, the bear dumped the cubs literally in a place within my environment. I would like to know when this strategy will be presented, when these compensations will be paid - there is a commitment to be expeditive. I don't know if it's worth a year's pay. Expedite. When will we ensure in Slovenia or ensure the safe and equivalent life of people throughout the country? So, I am complementing that question or questions that my colleague has asked. I think that citizens, not just me, are expecting a serious response and serious action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Ms State Secretary Dr. Čadonic Špelič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I will respond in a similar way to the previous interlocutor, because somehow the questions are also substantively linked. In fact, at this point, I cannot say when the strategy will be ready. We know this bear problem. As you know, a decision to shoot bears is also in force. However, as far as the compensation is concerned, I have already said that the trial is in court and we are awaiting court decisions because it is a complaint because the defendant did not agree with the amount of compensation offered. We have now requested that the court appoint an expert in the medical profession, who will then actually determine what the injuries were and what the value would be to compensate the injured person in some way, even though we are aware that it is impossible to replace them financially. I propose that this is a set of questions that relate to the same subject to prepare both Members with a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you. The additional question, I think, was also supplemented in the decision at the time, so the additional decision was on the possibility of using the European Union's resources for research and problem solving. I am interested in this aspect of whether the Government has established any contacts with the European Union in terms of obtaining these funds. This project of a brown bear, if no one in Europe wants it and we are developing it in Slovenia, I think we are entitled to the resources to develop this biotope for this animal, which has European dimensions. I would also like to see this question, or answer, in this written article of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you. Do you want to answer? Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	Yes, we made a commitment to respond in writing. I can answer the Member that, of course, we have also made contact with the European Union to address this problem. The numbers that follow from this, if they follow, but I can't say at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor. He's not here. Mr Davorin Terchón has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and relates to the construction of the 2nd track, or a fast track between Kopro and Divac. I don't see the Minister here. I see the Secretary of State for Roads. Well, I'm gonna ask about the railroads and hope I get the answer. On 23 February this year, Minister Presečnik signed a so-called minutes of the discussion with his Italian counterpart Bersani, on the basis of which the rapid route, which is part of the 5th corridor between Trieste and Ljubljana, was coordinated. This is some kind of compromise between the different positions that have so far emerged between Italy and Slovenia regarding the construction of this part of the fast track. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already commissioned or commissioned a site plan for the rapid route between Kopro and Divac last year. The fact is that this section of the fast track is not in line with the version of "m", which is defined in the minutes of the conversation, and that it calls for the necessary redesign of the rapid line between Kopro and the Fan, if possible, to link to the fast track between Trieste and Ljubljana, which is part of the 5th corridor from Venice to Kiev. On this basis, the Ministry asks whether it considers the minutes of the discussion binding on the Slovenian party and whether it also considers it binding on the Italian side. If so, I ask you when the Ministry intends to submit to the government a decision on the necessary redesign of the rapid line between Kopro and Divac, in order to make a possible link to the rapid route of the 5th European Corridor, or whether it will insist on the already adopted version 1/3 of the rapid line between Kopro and Divac. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a decision as soon as possible in order to keep Luka Koper competitive in comparison with the other ports in this area and in particular neighbouring countries, and also because the Ministry has entered into the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which comes into Parliament in the third reading, in order to build this second track, the fast track between Divisco and Kopro, in 2002-2006, which, I think, is somewhat too optimistic. I'd like a written answer, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Anton Shaina, will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Mr. Tarchoon, thank you very much for the question. I hope that, given my knowledge of these issues, I will be able to at least partially answer the question raised. On 23 February, the Minister signed the minutes. The purpose of this record or agreement was as follows. Slovenia needs to build a second track from Kopra to Divaca as soon as possible so that Luka Koper can develop properly and be competitive in this area. At the same time, however, there is a need to plan a fast track in the direction of Trieste - Ljubljana - Budapest and so on. The idea is that, as far as possible, these two routes and, of course, it is possible, whether these two routes match or whether there is a need to plan a second track on such a small space and a quick track route. The answer given by the experts is that at least part of these two routes can be matched, regardless of the fact that the second track location plan is already being developed and, somehow, the most appropriate route is envisaged at technical level. The record, as we understand it, is an agreement on a joint work to find a solution that would satisfy both routes. The high-speed route also allows us to benefit from international resources to improve or create better conditions on the 5th Corridor route, which, of course, makes sense. Since there were probably a number of issues in the public, such as yours, Mr Member, that have been asked by the Minister of the Expert Group to re-examine the meaning of the objective so planned. The expert group is already working on this and will come to a conclusion as soon as possible whether the idea that was set for the goal is real and whether it is feasible in due course. If the answer is no, the work will continue on the already mentioned route, otherwise the route will be redesigned properly. He's not in the project phase yet. These are studies. It will thus satisfy the stresses or requirements that have been put in place. This is the answer that I have been able to give orally at this moment on the basis of knowledge of this issue, but we will prepare or prepare an appropriate written response, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Member Bevk Sam has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! On 21 October 1999, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia completed the first reading of the National Higher Education Programme. On the basis of the eight views adopted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a proposal for a second reading programme, which was published in the Rapporteur on 16 May 2000. By letter dated 6.7.2000 from the Rector of the University of Prof. Dr. Jožet Mencinger, the University of Ljubljana made a number of comments on the Government's proposal for co-existence. It would be appropriate for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to begin the second reading of the National Higher Education Programme as soon as possible. However, I am interested and therefore ask the Government or the competent ministry what their position is on the existing text of the programme and the continuation of the hearing in the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Dr. Peyovnik Stane will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Bevk, thank you very much for the question. The National Higher Education Programme is one of the documents which has a high priority in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We expect it to be included in the July session of this assembly, and we hope that we will be able to complete this very important document for the development of tertiary education in Slovenia. As regards the comments made by the Rector. I think it's 12 comments from the University of Ljubljana. I can assure you that a large majority of these comments have already been incorporated into a document where they have been taken into account in one way or another, and some of these comments will need to be prepared in the amendment form in agreement with both universities and with the High Education Council for the National Assembly. If I make a quick comment. The vast majority of comments are not disputed. It is one of the comments that the Ministry cannot accept in any way. In view of the fact that a study programme of 9 semesters would also include a study programme of leadership and municipal engineering. It is generally true, given what the Minister said earlier, that we will think of shortening the programmes rather than including new programmes for an extended period of study in the Ministry. Also, the point that talks about education in higher vocational schools is very welcome for our ministry. Although it is not explicitly mentioned in the Higher Education Programme itself, I can point out that the Ministry of Education will in a very short time try to draw up new legislation to regulate this area, as we firmly believe that round legislation is needed in this particular area. The document itself merely mentions the area of higher education several times, but it is not an integral part of this programme. All other things, I think they are highly coordinated to be included in the programme itself, and in agreement with the two rectors, agreement was reached that we will already this year draw up a new regulation on the financing of higher education, the so-called financing in the single amount, or in the ugly package, we call this "lampsome" funding, which will also mean much higher autonomy of both universities. I hope I answered you with that. Of course, in the amendment form, you will receive harmonised views for consideration alone. We also want this document to be dealt with as soon as possible in the National Assembly and also adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Member Igor Štemberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I would ask my question to the Ministry of the Economy, which is the area of tourism. Tourism is certainly an important factor that also builds the recognition of our country. And it is the recognition of the country that is the main factor affecting public opinion of a country. In recent public opinion surveys in the Member States of the European Union, Slovenia does not rank very high. We have the least favored French. If we look at the programme of work of the Slovenian Tourism Organization for 2001, which is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the area of France, we see that it has been poorly processed, that we had all about 300 guests last year via Adria Airways from France, that there will be no new activities this year for obtaining French guests and that we cannot expect better results. Then we wonder why the French are so unfriendly to us. I am interested in the plans for the promotion of our country, both on the French market and on the other markets of the Member States of the European Union. As far as tourism is concerned, I would like to touch on another sector, namely youth tourism. This too is left to the initiative of young people. We do not have overnight capacity and we do not intend to pay any more attention to this, at least according to the plans of the Slovenian tourism organisation for 2001. When it comes to youth tourism, it's really about young people, it says, for students, it's about those with slightly cheaper wallets. However, we need to know that these are our potential guests who will be returning over the years to our country with thicker wallets, but only if we know how to attract them now. With the kind of work we have now, we probably won't attract them. That is why I am interested in your view of the future of youth tourism in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Edo Pirkmeier, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for both questions, as regards the promotion of our tourism in France or the promotion of Slovenia in France, as well as youth tourism. I'll take care of these questions so you can have a written answer. I think it's two pretty important subjects that I wouldn't have hoped to give an exact answer to. I don't think my answer would explain anything, so I'll make sure you get a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Member Yuri Malovrej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you so much for your words and welcome. My question is to the Ministry of the Interior and to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, while the other to the Ministry of Education and Sport and, of course, to the Ministry of Labour. On the first question, I would like to know how the regulation of the status and determination of the existence of an extra-legal community is. I must first say that I am not against her, but the matter must be settled. The purpose of the question itself is, in particular, to address the issue of the existence of an extra-marital community, or only a statement is sufficient, such or different or more favourable to the applicant. In practice, there are problems of exploitation, of abuse. Where the existence of an extramarital community benefits, such as an application for housing, it is referred to. However, where the extra-marital community does not benefit, although two actually live together, such as the imposition of payment for reduced pay for kindergartens, in particular in a narrower or wider environment, the mothers indicate that they are single mothers and that they live alone and that the father of the child is registered with the parents or elsewhere. I certainly consider, as a legal void, the fact that an extra-marital community can enforce it when it benefits it when it does not. Cases are evident. Let me illustrate the above. It is a matter of being able, for example, to verify to the competent authority whether a person has declared an extra-marital community or not during the resolution of a particular administrative matter which lays down the rights, obligations or benefits of an individual, and it would not be necessary to deal with the proof of that, since we all know that the longer-term living community of men and women is extremely difficult to prove under law. They have a systemic solution to this problem abroad. I would, of course, ask for a written reply, but even more so for the regulation of this legal void, as this matter is being abused by about 20% of the partners. I have to say, we're chasing a thief, someone who's using both the state and the congregation at 10 times or 20 times. In a chicken thief named Boris Zjunko or Edo Mlačnik says so at 6:00 in the morning. However, the second question relates to whether an old mother or an old father who lives in a common household does not have his own income and has a husband or wife who receives a pension when maintaining a family member. The case relates to the calculation of the payment of the price of the programme in kindergarten where parents apply the municipal subsidy. The rules on parental payments for kindergarten programs give rise to ambiguity. On the one hand, he says that family members include children’s parents, who are defined as dependent family members by the Income Law. On the other hand, the rule in Article 3(5) provides that the congregation may, in exceptional cases, take account of other facts and circumstances, in which case they are old mothers or old fathers who are not dependent family members of their daughter, since they have a husband or a wife who receives a pension. As far as income decisions are concerned, the tax administration does not care whether the dependent family member is taken into account with his daughter or with her husband. The tax administration returns the overpaid income to either the daughter or her husband. This legality of the tax administration cannot be the basis for taking family members into account when calculating the price of kindergarten. There is also ambiguity in this law, so I ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. On the first question, I think Dr. Bulgarian Bojan will answer. Otherwise, a written reply was requested. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ambassador! The Ministry of the Interior will certainly send you a written answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer, Dr. Dimovski. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much for this question, which undoubtedly raises one of the problems, the first and the second. Now, as far as we're concerned, we're sure to deliver you a written answer, as requested. [[...]] But I'd still say two things. One is the Family Relations Act, which will be more precise and more specific as to the individual issues that you have put here. Secondly, at the Ministry of Labour, we have also embarked on the establishment of an information system that will enable - I would say - better identification of these so-called extra-legislative communities. And this project lasts from the beginning of the year. So we hope that when these things are also ready to improve the situation in this area. Secondly, the question is, by definition, a person who does not have his income is a dependant. However, there were quite a few questions that were raised as a substantiation. One sure question is the issue of child protection subsidies. Let me start by saying that the rate of those children involved in child care until the start of schooling is approximately 60% and that most of them are also subsidised. In general, I could say that, of course, this is a scale where we can find that some children or some families do not pay for kindergartens, but that those in the highest grade are subsidised by the State at least 20%. By saying that every family that actually has a child in child care is subsidized by about 20%. However, as regards the calculation of the price, of course it is a concrete procedure for calculating this price and based on this procedure it is also a fixed price and the amount of the subsidy to be paid for a particular child in kindergarten. But since it's a few numbers and a number of questions that you've asked, we're going to deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you. Do you want to set extra? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u133	Maybe just a little comment. I can deliver specific cases, and we would use this as some kind of legal practice in municipal decisions. So we would really ask for an eclectic answer, which can then be used. I'll give you an example. The extra-marital community, living with a rich privateer, applies a subsidy as an unemployed person, applies a free kindergarten and comes with the most modern audio and "penc montelle". Then let the mayor and the municipality prove to women who are employed in the company and pay 30, 40 or 60% of the price of kindergarten! This is meant to really get rid of these things in the way they need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to the government's representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will address the first question to the Ministry of Transport. The reconstruction of the R-1/219 regional road on the route Slovenska Bistrica - Rogaška Slatina has not been completed in Zgornje Polčany for more than a year. The road is not asphalted for 70 metres, so there are desperate holes, traffic blockades, intolerable dusting and unsustainable conditions for the local population, and at the same time there is huge economic damage in tourism, the economy, etc., despite the fact that a valid building permit and valid location permit have been obtained through reconstruction. The Roads Directorate has stopped work due to the service requirements of the owner of the house along the route, despite the fact that the route of the reconstructed road has two metres more distance from the house than the old route. I therefore ask the Ministry or the Minister why the Roads Directorate is going to bid with the owner, whose claims are deemed to be entirely unjustified and unfounded. Why not at least take a temporary asphalt dressing? I also ask if the Ministry has tried to determine who is responsible for the conduct that limits sabotage, and what kind of business is going on in the background? First of all, when will the road be asphalted? I also ask, when will the Ministry or Directorate for Roads take the road reconstruction, regional, Polish-Macola, or - if you know more - Polish-Statenberg? The road is completely destroyed after this, from the government forgotten, the Dravin Valley, which is always flooded, so now, practically the roads people no longer have. Second question to the Ministry of Environment and Space. Today we were able to read that the Ministry of Environment and Space has concluded negotiations for the export and incineration of meat meal in Germany at the price of 544 German stamps per tonne. It's a 3 million-dollar deal worth 300,000 German marks. In view of the fact that the Secretary of State, Mr Tauzes, had already mentioned on television four months ago that the price was 550 marks in the case of exports, it is clear that the deal had already been concluded. Meanwhile, the ministry - I say this on a scale - alone, and the people who had financial interests, raised hysteria in Slovenia, stalled, took a completely inappropriate approach to the problem. For example, in Salonit they were experimenting one day before the furnace was closed, which is four months in repair. This is a waste of money and unserious work! But those who can smoke, like the Chestnut power plant, are the last to come. And they're interested in business! And if it were not for the intentional implementation of the intimidation of people that they were against all of this, it could already be hot today and it would not be an outflow of this capital abroad to Germany. It's an embezzlement at best. It is a shame for this country and for the budget, if this business is carried out in this form, because this money should be used by domestic energy facilities in order to be able to impose usefully on it to turn around in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The first question will be answered by Secretary of State Shaina Anton.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u137	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for asking. I will be able to explain some things, and some matters will need to be answered in writing. Indeed, these works you are asking about are within the jurisdiction of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, and, of course, on the occasion of the abundance of such items, this moment is not quite a presentation to me what is happening in this work. However, I must say that in the Ministry of Transport and in the Slovenian Directorate for Roads we have difficulties in obtaining permits, and in particular in the area of land acquisition for work or reconstruction on roads. Regrettably, laws protect individuals, in some cases even excessively, so as to prevent the execution of remedial or regulatory works, irrespective of the risk that sections are in danger of causing such retention causing greater traffic risks and causing damage to roads. With the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will try to obtain slightly more appropriate operational powers in the novelty or in the amendment of the Law on Public Roads in this area, so that we will no longer have such a situation. There are several such cases in Slovenia. As for the rehabilitation of the Poljčane-Statemberg road, where the road is in very poor condition, I must say that in Slovenia, from about 5,850 km of state roads, it is over 1,500 km in very poor condition, and another 300 km in poor condition, which would be needed to repair those 1,800 kilometers, we estimate, about 55 billion tolars, which is not budgeted for 2001, and we do not see in the forecast for the following years. That is why we are fighting that some roads, especially where there is less traffic, are trying to patch up. Under the responsibility of the Directorate for Roads and Their Operators in this Part, for the regular maintenance of roads, is and for this is provided money, for regular maintenance measures, these are, of course, smaller remedial works, established on these roads, including bad roads, so that there is no danger of traffic safety and that the driving is as long as it takes. This is hard, of course, and it doesn't always work. With the national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads, we will try to achieve a slightly longer-term perspective, in order to remedy this situation, and in particular to devote more money in the coming years to the rehabilitation or maintenance of the existing situation in a good situation than to the new construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The second question will be answered by the Minister of Mag. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Otherwise, Mr Jerovšek, I did not understand exactly what the question was. How? [[...]] [[The answer from the bench.]] But I understood it as a series of claims. [[...]] However, I should be allowed to deny some of these claims in the performance, which, for example, is called the answer to the question. Bone flour is a new phenomenon for Slovenia, such as a new phenomenon in this new content - so the new content is that it is non-hazardous waste, but not a useful component of food for animals - is something new. We had already been asking around Europe in January, what are the prices for burning bone flour, and we had already checked what power would do with it. Already at the time - I think that I have already talked about this here, also to your question - in answer to your question, we already knew that there are actually only two technologies for destroying this, and a third, which is so - actually not really technology. [[...]] One is to cremate dead animals and animal waste as such, so to burn them as animal remains, and the other is to first turn them into bone meal and then burn this bone meal or do something else with it. The third option is to dispose of or bury animal waste in the soil. Even this possibility exists in Slovenia, the veterinary law allows it, but of course only for cases of mass deaths and the like. Well, as far as bone meal is concerned, of course, it is a problem for all of Europe and has also been burned by all countries across Europe. The price for this incineration was - or the average price in Europe was reported in information that we have also provided to Parliament in writing already, I think, either at the end of January or February. That is how we knew about the estimated average price at the time. And this one is about the way we face it today. It is true, however, that in the meantime, with the invitation to tender, we sought out the incinerator and that it came to us alone, and this was the Belgian company Indauer, which has set a higher price than that for which we have now been able to negotiate with the Austrian company, which is, in fact, the Swiss owner, and which was the only one available to us at the time. Nevertheless, we have embarked on negotiations with the Belgian company Indauer. These negotiations have been going on, I think, for about three weeks, I am now speaking from memory. By no means have we been able to lower this price and the additional negative side of this offer was that the export of stored quantities would last for a very long time - in months very long - and that, of course, these stored quantities would not be able to be disposed of for a long time. Therefore, we were happy to negotiate with an alternative incinerator. When you talk about domestic incinerators, you should say the following. First of all, it's not true what you said about the money being thrown away in Salonito Anhovo: burning one day before the start of the four-month renovation. The renovation wasn't four months old, and it doesn't even matter. These incinerations, which were made on the basis of the Minister's order, were not charged with incineration. Those were free burns. We're talking about experimental incinerations in Salonite Anhovo, in Clay Nazarje, in Lendava, and there were no other incinerations. And of course, after all, in Scotland. In Šostanje we went into the process of experimenting and further negotiating on the basis of the experience we had gained before, including in Salonito Anhovo, also in Glin Nazarje. This experience, however, was that we actually have to go into a very patient and slow bargaining process with the local community, otherwise we have a revolution. This method of negotiation, of course, has taken place. In addition, it is necessary to know that this moment none of the industrial furnaces in Slovenia: not in Anhove, not in Trbovje, not in Šostanje, nor in Nazarje has technological solutions that would allow for the burning of more flour. In Šostanje they now have this to come to, they had to - now I will very much say - prepare a device to stop or inhale bone flour for about two months. Of course, for these two months, there was no one capable of smoking a large quantity. We've been able to do these experiments, all kinds of things. But if someone were to smoke this stuff at home, but it wasn't there, and it's not there today, except for Squishing. Šostjanje did not prepare until about - what, now it will be about two weeks or three weeks then we are waiting for the analysis of the health care institution and the company Eriko and then we are waiting for a meeting of the municipal council in Šostanje, all of which took three weeks in short. In fact, we could have started three weeks ago on the basis of the Minister's order to smoke in Šostjanje, but I am sure that we would have experienced a revolution of the local community and should have stopped it, and the question of whether we would not have wasted the opportunity to permanently solve this problem. However, I can say, once again, until about three weeks ago, there was no technological possibility at all in Slovenia, anywhere, to smoke in large quantities. Now, thank God, we have this opportunity, and I am sure that in these days, so this week, there will be regular smoking of daily freshly produced bone flour in the thermal power plant Šostanyj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Do you want to set extra? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u141	On both of these questions, I received very few answers. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for Transport for an answer when they will asphalt those 60 or 70 metres of road. Actually, it's not about getting land. This owner of the house, who complicates it, will get it if you give him a two-meter belt from the previous route. There's always been a road on the same route, and now there's a bigger shift, and please don't be fooled. Second. Mr Minister Kopač, first of all, thank you so much for teaching us about solutions, I know them very well. However, the fact that two months could not be made technologically possible is simply not true. You didn't do the right thing. Mr. Slokar, who once dealt unsuccessfully with bodron incineration for several years, should know exactly who to go to first. If it were an interest, then we'd have stopped by the thermocentres first and so forth, and it could have been resolved a long time ago. You didn't tell me if you would still export this bone meal to storage in Germany for 3 million 300. This is literally a scandal, because in Chestnut they can definitely burn it in a very short time. Give them that money and let them have it! Let's keep this money in Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Mr. Secretary? Please, just for a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u143	At the Chestnut plant, I don't know yet, I think today or tomorrow a permit for incineration will be issued, what is the hourly capacity of this. However, it is a sad fact that, regardless of the size of this thermoelectric power plant, they simply cannot burn enough bone flour to burn daily production and in a very short time all the quantities already stored. Since all our already stored amounts by raising external temperatures are short, there is always some danger that something will happen to us - well, not so bad, but we are always worried that something will happen, that it will stink or anything else - we want to get rid of the already stored quantities as soon as possible. [[...]] If we waited for the Chestnut thermal power plant, we could wait many months. At this point, I can't tell you how much, because I still don't know what the daily, hourly ability of co-incinerating bone meal is. But you know, it's not possible to burn bone flour exclusively, but it's possible to just burn co-incineration, I think in terms of 0.2 or 0.3% of the total energy -- I'm talking very much, so it's possible that I've saved myself a little bit here -- all the energy going into the oven. In short, it's just a little extra next to a giant lignite. And simply in some relatively short time, as my colleagues call me, unfortunately we can't burn it down at the Chestnut power plant, so we have to find another solution. This other solution is this moment only export, the other is not, or further storage throughout Slovenia, which I do not think is appropriate. Therefore, of course, we almost certainly also served export solutions for part, if not all, already stored bone meal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word is Anna Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Greetings to all present! I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Family and an initiative. First of all, I would like to start with an initiative: I have the initiative of the Ministry of Culture. The season of school trips, which usually includes museum visits, is approaching. Unfortunately, though, museums often behave very harshly and do not adapt to the needs of visitors. Museums usually open after 10 a.m. This causes major organisational problems for excursion organizers because they cannot visit the museum in the morning, which means they can not return home until late afternoon, so they cannot return home with regular school buses. I would like to ask the Ministry to ensure that these cultural institutions behave a little more flexibly, at least with regard to the visits of organised school groups, make sure that they listen to the official hours or the opening of these institutions to certain groups. Thank you very much. My question is also addressed to the Minister for Labour and Family. At the principal level, at the Ministry of Labour and Family, you are particularly committed to increasing fertility and protecting families, especially those with multiple children. Unfortunately, I note that when it comes to dealing specifically with problems, there is no will to promote fertility and the protection of families with multiple children. This can be seen, for example, by the introduction of value added tax. For the vast majority of the products used by children, the tax rate has increased significantly. And yesterday, I had one mother of four. She reminded me that before the introduction of the VAT family with several children they had a tax relief when buying a car. Families with multiple children need a car with more than five seats belonging to a higher price class, which means that they are unattainable to larger families. The tax relief in question has made it easier for such families to obtain a car that has become an emergency today, not just luxury goods. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you when will you again allow families with multiple children tax relief when buying a car? There's something else that bothers me. I am disturbed by this lack of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, which has decided that the decisions of the Income Act are inconsistent with the Constitution, unless they fully exempt from taxation those amounts that parents must devote to the survival of their children. Current tax reliefs are small and cover only a small part of the cost of supporting unsustained children. This non-compliance with the Constitution should be abolished within 1 year. The deadline's over, and by now nothing's happened. In the new law, the tax relief for the maintenance of a family member must be sufficient to exclude all the amounts that parents must spend on their children's survival in order to provide them with at least an existential minimum. I ask you when you will fulfil your duty and propose amending the Income Act so that it will be in accordance with the Constitution, which means greater tax relief for dependent family members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The first question will be answered by State Secretary Cyril Baskovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u147	Your Honor, the House of Honor! The practice to which you rightly critically pointed is in fact very different in Slovenian museums. We have museums in certain places that are open almost all the days with a rather broad schedule, and unfortunately museums that are not open on a day of the week and even on a schedule could be rounded. This depends to a certain extent on the management of the museum and to a certain extent on the financing of museums. The Ministry of Culture has always recommended museums, museum leaders, as much openness as possible, so that they can present something about the wealth they have. More; to be connected with other living activities, whether cultural or not, by playing their role as far as possible. But, as it is said, the basic problem is not so much the conduct of leadership as the lack of funding and the museums are different categories funded by state, municipal or combined. I can inform you that the Ministry of Culture is preparing amendments to the draft law on public interest in culture. This proposal is already in your well-respected National Assembly of the former Government, but we want to complement and amend things by better regulating the financing of the public service at museums and then making it easier for them to recover from the leaderships to increase theirs if I may say so with a poor term, operating time. If the honourable Member wishes that the Ministry may give her schedules in writing for all museums in Slovenia, it is over 30, then we are even willing to do so, of course with the time it takes to obtain the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The second question will be answered by Minister Vlado Dimovski. Or someone else? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, with regard to value added tax and cars. You know, sometimes when we had a one-phase traffic tax, we were able to apply such reliefs or exemptions as you mentioned. Unfortunately, in the value added tax system, which is a multi-phase tax, this is, of course, impossible. In fact, why? For any such exemption would, of course, derogate from the value added tax system, because, of course, all other transactions can then be taken into account, including, and this is by no means possible in the value added tax system, which must be neutral, to treat all transactions evenly, especially in the direction of that final consumer. We will, of course, be able to talk more about this, as was the decision of the National Assembly, on the first revision of the value added tax law when the government prepares a proposal for marriage, including these audits, by 30 June of this year. However, as regards your second question regarding the implementation of constitutional decisions, I can say that the Ministry of Finance has already prepared, months ago, individual solutions. However, due to procedural procedures, because some other laws and legal novelties have been introduced into the parliamentary procedure, it cannot be dealt with in advance, so we have ruled that way, because, as I mentioned earlier, we will also, as a new law on income, put the law on income into Parliament as soon as possible within two to three months - in the parliamentary procedure, these solutions will be fully covered by this new legal text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you. Secretary of State Končan Darko was in charge. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u151	I would also ask Mr Dimovski if he would tell from his department his position on this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u152	Minister, Dr. Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Well, given that the specific issue concerning the Income and Relief Act was, of course, within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. As far as demographic policy and large families are concerned, all attention is paid. As you are aware, of course the "vis-λ-vis" novel on the children's allowance, as regards more children, we also foresee some solutions concerning the law on parenting and family relations. This will be given some attention, so that perhaps the failure that has occurred - let's say - to the newly transformed ones, so to speak, to the reliefs that result from the introduction of VAT as a multi-phase tax determination is on our table and, of course, we will do so even in the shortest possible time - I think that the second point of the current call of the National Assembly, which will decide when the law on parenthood and family benefits will also be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Member Sonja Areh Lavrich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, Government representatives, honourable Members. I am asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a question which is not only a question in Koroška, where I come from, but also elsewhere in Slovenia outside urban centres, that is, cities. The issue is linked to the issue of job provision and, above all, the creation of new jobs. This refers to employment, including education and intellectuals. Noting that the investment of budget money for the conservation of jobs has particularly to open new ones, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with what keys it has performed and will perform in the allocation of investment and other funds in the budget, and in what way take account of the representation of individual areas, regions in the Republic of Slovenia. For a more detailed response, I would also like to ask for a presentation of a vision, a strategy to tackle employment in those areas of our country, which marks the highest unemployment rate. There is no doubt that Koroška and the Upper Drava Valley are among these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you. Dr. Vlado Dimovski will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The question of unemployment is undoubtedly one of the fundamental objectives or fundamental problems we have as Slovenia and one of the fundamental objectives we have set ourselves is, of course, the reduction of unemployment. And also at this meeting of the National Assembly, the strategy for the development of the labour market will be in parallel by 2006. In this strategy, we anticipate that the unemployment rate will fall at an approximate rate, as we have foreseen. So in 2006 it would be about 5 per cent of the so-called ILO standards, which means choosing the unemployed with the so-called survey questionnaire from the current 7.0 per cent. That's a first. Secondly, I would say that there are 103 000 unemployed macroeconomically in the country, but that the biggest problem is, of course, structural unemployment. Especially those in first and second grade. It's the first, relatively uneducated, it's the first category. The second category is people with disabilities, who are now about 18,000 unemployed. Then they're actually single and young and over 45 years old. These are the categories that are in fact the most threatened and because they do not get a job, of course, they also raise a social issue. This is also why our law or proposed law, which was recently passed in the National Assembly, is a law on social security, in particular in the direction of addressing the social problems of these categories, which are of course also categories of employment. That's another thing. The third thing I would like to say is that, of course, the problem of Slovenia is also a different rate of unemployment across regions. The regions you mentioned are, of course, those that are among the more affected, unlike, say, Primorska and similar, who have a lower unemployment rate. In doing so, I would mention that the question of unemployment is, of course, addressed in a number of ways, but that it is a very important economic policy that reduces the rate of unemployment; it is said that the higher level of investment activity is reducing the rate of the unemployed. It should therefore be said that Slovenia, as an economic profile, has also moved into the so-called service economy and that, in fact, the most jobs are being opened up in the field of service activities or service activities. Fourthly, what the honourable Members would say is that the instruments used by the State are economic policy, so to speak, through the so-called active employment policy, where, this year, for the so-called active employment policy, in addition to what is directly intended for the functioning of the business office and which is around 5.6 billion, there are still around 6.5 billion for the programmes to address the problems of the unemployed. Of course, we would like to see some constant percentage of the share of the gross domestic product in order to solve the problem of the unemployed, and in this way our projections are ready for the future; since any subsequent reduction of the unemployed is, of course, increasingly difficult under some economic legality to increase border costs. I would say that in these regions you mentioned, of course, the problem is the transition from the so-called industrial environment to the post-industrial or service environment, which still has a certain part of the structural unemployed. These need attention with an instrument, I would say, self-employment, as well as other instruments of active employment policy. Already in this year's programme and amendments to the rules of active employment policy, we have focused, I would say, more explicitly on regions with a higher level of unemployment, through, of course, the instruments that we have in the context of active employment policy at our disposal. However, I think that this will also be a permanent practice in the future, so that we will make a substantial effort to channel active employment policy instruments to those regions that have a higher unemployment rate. So here I would answer that there are more - these 5, 6 points, which are very briefly defined as the answer to your question. Of course, it is a question of unemployment, in the end, as I said, a question of some intense or export-oriented nature. and economic policies as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u159	Good-bye, everybody! I have a question for the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport. In particular, I am aware that all parliamentary groups are aware of the problems with the location definitions of the Vrba-Peračica motorway section. The draft site plan for the Vrba-Peračica motorway section, together with the proposed amendments to the spatial components of the Radovljica community plan, was elaborated at five locations between 2.10. and 2.11.2000 following a government decision. Public debates were held in all of these. Due to the complexity of the problem, the cross-examination of the environment and the extreme public interest, the municipality organised an additional plenary debate. The municipal council then considered the proposed changes to the social plan at its meeting on 5.11.2000 and adopted a series of conclusions. All this material was provided by the municipality, together with the minutes of all public debates and with all comments at the end of November, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. In accordance with the legal deadlines laid down, the congregation expected the applicant’s views on the comments and conclusions transmitted to the congregation council until 17 January 2001, but unfortunately no reply had been received to this day. Radovljica Municipality is keenly interested in the final installation of the planned route, as this important decision could lead to more concrete planning of the use of space between the present main road and the settlements of Lesce and Radovljica, which, in the event of the adoption of an in-depth route in the southeast corridor, for which they take priority in the municipality, would represent an appropriate potential for urbanisation and expansion under better conditions than, of course, in the case of an in-depth course or at the choice, for example, of the northern variant of the route. I therefore ask the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport when the procedure for the preparation and adoption of the site plan for the section of the Vrba-Peračica on the part of the highway cross in Gorenje and when the competent ministry, together with Dars, will forward views on the comments formulated during the public decommissioning and on the conclusions adopted at the meeting of the Radovljica Municipal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. As you know, the public decomposition took place until 2.11. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are at this point in the stage of the creation of professional positions to comments from the public decommissioning, which is a normal phase in this procedure. However, this is why we are late because we are waiting for Dars, who is preparing so-called project verifications of the comments and proposals made. Now, if we go briefly over these comments and proposals, which are essential: that opposition to the construction of the toll station in the Radovljica municipality, opposition to the construction or movement of the gas service, the movement of the Radovljica connection, of course the definition for the construction of a deeper route through the Radovljica field - there were two options in the debate: either on the field itself or a deeper route. Dars predicts that the project checks will be made by mid-June, so we've been informed. In this case, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will draw up views on comments from the public decomposition by mid-July - this is the answer to your question. If Dars is gonna be late for his project checks, we're gonna be late. In doing so, however, it is necessary to say, in my opinion, the following, which is more likely to be part of the Ministry of Transport's work. The Vrba-Crnivec or Vrba-Peračica motorway, as you call it, was valued with about six billion tolars in the national highway construction programme. If the so-called flat variant had been built, not deepened, it would have cost Dars about 12 billion tolars. I apologize - the investment value of the national programme was more than six billion, it was - very much in my head - about eight billion there. Well, it's certainly a significant overstatement in this case. However, if we go on an in-depth route, Darsa estimates that the value of the investment will increase by another 11 per cent, thus exceeding 60 per cent of the amount foreseen in the national highway construction programme. In this case, of course, it is almost inevitable that we are going into a change or that the Ministry of Transport is going to change the national highway construction programme, specifically for this route, and, of course, foresees a significantly higher investment value. So much for that. In particular, I also responded to the deadlines or dates foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Do you want to set up? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u163	There may not be that many additional questions, but these amounts, which have also been transmitted by Minister Kopač, have been asked where, in fact, the material obtained in the event of an in-depth version. This is certainly material that is useful, even for the construction of others, I would say, areas of the highway, where this material is insufficient or inadequate. So they were also given some warning that, however, these assessments were not made correctly enough, but in particular they did not take into account this natural property, which allows the use of material at other locations, while, of course, an in-depth variant also represents a significant improvement in both living or living conditions in the immediate vicinity of the motorway and thus, of course, significantly easier and better plans for the development of the Radovljica municipality itself. So in these billions, I think we should also make some judgements about this material. Of course, we somehow do not go together then with an evaluation from the national programme and with an assessment of the in-depth option. So this difference shows, however, that it is likely that the initial assessment was made too flatly, without any basis to give these amounts, because the in-depth variant of course should then be significantly cheaper than was shown in these reports prepared by Dars. And, of course, we expect that these deadlines, which have been said, will in fact also be taken into account and thus allow for the normal development of the Radovljica municipality to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Shaina, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you so much for the question and for being able to answer it. I think that it should also be said that there has been an in-depth option and that, of course, according to the comments and views of the local communities, appropriate documentation should be re-examined and appropriate documentation drawn up and a re-deployment plan should be drawn up so that, of course, appropriate feedback or views can be obtained on the in-depth option. It is true, however, that this variant is in the same direction as the unexploded variant. Geological research has shown what we didn't really expect. In view of the fact that this material from the excavation is not a quality grammatical material and that in addition to other costs it will also be necessary to provide for the costs of appropriate landfills of these fossil materials, at least for most of these fossil materials. And another very large complication in the in-depth variant is that the whole in-depth part needs to be properly drained, which is certainly not a small cost, nor a small intervention into space. All of this must, of course, be checked with appropriate documentation, and procedures followed, as Minister Kopač said. Surely, as regards the overstatement of the resources provided for in the national programme, we can say that the starting points for the national programme have been on a smooth track. Deeper horror, of course, requires higher costs. And this will also be one of the subjects of the national programme's rebalancing, which we are also planning for this section at the Ministry of Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Member Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u167	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government! In recent years, severe storms, accompanied by heavy rainfall affecting Slovenia, have triggered without the number of earth’s beaches. These reptiles are usually located in areas that are demographic and otherwise threatened. It is simple to note that the rehabilitation of many beaches that threaten housing, economic facilities, water supply, local, local roads and something else has completely stalled. As the main reason for the suspension of these rehabilitations, however, is the need to rehabilitate the beach in Logo under Mangart and the associated large resources, and, last but not least, the fact that it is stated that there is not even money for such extensive rehabilitation and to stop such an extensive terrestrial beach as Macesnik’s beach above Solčava. By 1999, the National Assembly had adopted a law aimed at the rehabilitation of the beaches of 600 million. In the Law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and sea-slides in 2000, billions of tolars are used for the rehabilitation of the landlides. However, we have already heard that there has been a forecast of resource dynamics [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u168	Wait a minute, please! I take it the National Assembly is no longer concluded. But please finish your question. Members, please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u169	The projected dynamics in the use of these funds have not been realized. [[...]] In doing so, I would like to point out that the local communities, which, after the letter of both laws, have invested a great deal of money in geological research, in the preparation of ideas projects, not least in the implementation of projects, are in a very poor position here, in that, as I have already said, the rehabilitation of reptiles under the national programme has virtually stopped. I ask Minister Kopač, when can we expect something to change in this area or when we can start again with the legal planned rehabilitation of the beaches? I ask the Minister or representative of the Ministry of the Interior when he will propose the dissolution of the municipal council of the municipality of Velika Polana. Indeed, in accordance with article 90b of the Law on Local Self-Government, there are all the reasons why this should already be done. The fact is that the municipality of Velika Polana did not adopt the final budget account for 1999, nor the budget for 2000 and 2001. However, I would like to ask the representative of the Ministry of Health when I can expect a promised written supplement to my question concerning helicopter resolution arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. As I've already established, we're not concluding. I ask all Members and Members to come to the Chamber. We'll figure out the concoction! Once again, Members and Members of Parliament are requested to report their presence! We're continuing our session. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister of Mags. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u171	Dear Member Sušnik! I'd be happy if I could answer you for a month or at least a year. As was already understood from my reply earlier, unfortunately this year it is not realistic to expect that the resources of the reserves would be used to eliminate the effects of the beaches much more than I have already intended. While there is likely to be a greater amount for this in the coming year, that is 2002, when the need for an earthquake recovery begins, which now covers a large part of the reserve, when I hope that there will be a solution to the effects of the drought again and something like that. In short, it'll relax a little bit inside the reserve. However, if there is another natural disaster in between, then, of course, we will again face the dilemma that we are once again. So the exact answer - the question was when it would go on - I can't give you. I hope it will be in 2002; or it will be, but we will see through the events over the course of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you. Would you like to ask again? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u173	Well, I am convinced that the Minister is aware that there are still large areas with limited access, that the exploitation of forests is impossible, that farming is impossible in these already problematic areas, that housing facilities are still at risk and that it would actually suggest that one would be done, I would say, verification, one review of the situation and just bring forward those most pressing matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u175	I'll just be a little short in the extra answer. Look. By the time we started my ministry, in fact, the assessment of all these reptiles was carried out, of course, with any severe distress, or one owner, a cut-off forest or one family with a threatened house or more, etc. Well, the expert committee that was created or set up to monitor the rehabilitation of the beach in Logo under Mangart was given an additional task to make some criteria between the so-called large and smaller beaches. These criteria, which I cannot restore right now, include Lokavec and Macesnik's beach in Logo under Mangart. That's what these two are for, oz. and the recovery of the consequences for these two were taken over by the State on the basis of this decision of the expert committee led by Dr. Majec. All others are somehow more in a different frame of mind and are primarily the responsibility of the congregations, or their rehabilitation is primarily the responsibility of the congregations. I know, I do not have to explain in particular that some congregations are so burdened by the amount of beaches that I know what Solčava is, or by removing the consequences of the floods, that they simply cannot do it and it is unrealistic to say that it is simply municipal authority and a municipal task. However, we do not have State resources for these other beaches on a large scale this year, unfortunately within the reserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u176	The Secretary of State will respond briefly. High Simon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you. Dear Member Sušnik, as far as you are concerned, not a question, but more of a request or expectation of a written reply to the helicopter service. I apologize to you, then, we, I think two or three sessions back, did not understand that a written supplement was needed. In view of this, I would like to ask you to understand, until the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Please, Mr. Sušnik!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u179	I did not get an answer to the second question, which was essential. Therefore, it was addressed, if I may repeat, to the Ministry of the Interior, regarding the expected proposal for the dissolution of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u180	Please, Secretary of State. Dr. Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u181	Dear Member, Mr. Sušnik! This matter concerning the competence of the Local Self-Government Service, which operates within the Ministry of the Interior, will be forwarded to the Secretary, the Prašniki, who will then also provide you with an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u182	As I've already predicted. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, representatives of the government, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I'd like to ask you two questions. We have already talked about drought today, but I would still like to ask another question in this regard. Just for a little while. See, in early May, the municipalities were given a third deposit of aid after the drought. At the same time, as I know, the National Valuation Commission has also submitted new criteria for the allocation of these funds to the Municipal Valuation Commissions. In line with these new criteria, some have received more funding than they are eligible for under these new criteria. I ask representatives of the government how they imagine that those who have received a few thousand too much money, under these new criteria, are now returning these funds, or how this matter is to be done. For I saw a letter from the congregation suggesting that until the criteria were fully clear, the funds would be deposited in the congregation’s guru account and thus not received for some time. That's the first question. I would ask another question about this year's cold. Minister Kopač explained earlier how state budget reserves will be shared this year. In doing so, he predicted that the government would expect that there would probably be no such case this year for which we would need to go to state budget reserves. I therefore ask the representatives of the government if they believe that the spring frost, which has occurred in a significant part or in all parts of North-East Slovenia and elsewhere, has not been a natural disaster. Indeed, in some areas whole orchards have been destroyed. We also know that the majority of the farmers who suffered severe drought damage last year are not insured. I therefore ask what the government has done to this point. What is the damage assessment and how the government thinks to help the affected in the field of fruit production. On this occasion, I would also like to ask whether, in view of the fact that you are already here, you are also thinking about speeding up some long-term solutions in this area. Long-term solutions such as subsidising insurance premiums, what they know in our neighbouring countries, say, Austria and Germany. Are you thinking about spending more investment in irrigation systems in the fruit sector, because only irrigation systems can be an effective anti-flake agent? And I ask whether you are thinking in the government that the affected fruit farmers of the direct agricultural subsidy should be ordered immediately before you direct these funds to the rest of the agricultural sector. I hope I get the right answers. Something relates to the Ministry of Environment and Space, says, in particular, the first question concerning the criteria and criteria for the distribution of damage and the second probably to the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you for the question, Mr. Sok. The question is really a little awkward. In fact, as you rightly mentioned, the criteria have changed in the meantime. That's why exactly what you're saying happened. I didn't expect this to happen in advance, and, of course, now that I'm pouring my ashes back, I'm afraid it's not helping. However, the fact is that this change has been caused by the insistence of the Ministry of Field Affairs that funds should be shared in a linear manner. We, as the Ministry of Environment and Space, have proposed that the funds should be shared by the majority of those who live on agriculture, the others, land owners who do not live on agriculture, not, or to a large extent. In short, to go selectively to allocate funds to remedy the effects of drought. This could be done in such a way as to use the database of those who are misled as recipients of subsidies in the Agricultural Markets Agency, but should include those who produce potatoes and do not receive subsidies and are therefore not in the Register of the Agricultural Markets Agency. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to agree on this with the Agricultural Markets Agency, have not been able to do so and have insisted on linear division. Linear division has occurred, and the consequences are as you mentioned. But I don't want to apologize for coming back now. We'll just have to solve this problem. You asked me how I imagined now that whoever got a few grand too much would bring it back. I can't imagine being honest. However, since I have already been alerted to this problem, I have ordered my services, specifically the State Commission for Recovery, to conduct an immediate survey by the municipalities, how many such cases are there to actually see the financial scope of this. To the extent that the financial extent of this is not too large, it may be just a few ten million, I don't know, I think, then it can be arranged within the funds already approved to remedy the effects of the drought; but if the problem is greater, then we should cut into reserves even more than we have so far with this quota, with this tranche, a billion 600. So I can't give you an exact answer right now. But the problem is, for the record, in the rescue process, and I know that we have to solve it within a week or two, otherwise we will have simply too much of a grudge against all the affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Čadonic Špelič, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. At the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, of course, we consider this year's freeze to be a natural disaster and we have started a process to collect damage. However, the expert believes that the final assessment of the damage will not be possible until sometime in June, because we know that it is a process that is happening with plants, and only when this process is completed when it sees how many fruits will actually develop and how many will fall away will it be possible to make this assessment. I think we expect that we will also be able to pay this damage from the budget reserves. In any case, this procedure at the Ministry of Agriculture will be removed. As far as subsidies are concerned, I can't exactly answer you right now. However, as I am aware, the subsidies will all be paid in the light of public tenders or calls in the second half of this year. At this point, I couldn't promise you that they'd be paid earlier for the growers, regardless of whether we're just aware that that's the way it would be. However, the first forms for the application of subsidies have already arrived at the homes of beneficiaries, and of course those affected by the drought are, of course, those. On other questions concerning irrigation systems, I would like to ask you to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you. Can I help you? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Well, I'd like a mag. To a digger who said the question was a little awkward, he liked to replicate. It's not an awkward question. It's an awkward situation we've been in. I suggest you prevent the municipalities from depositing and retaining these funds. In fact, I saw one letter that says that the congregation will keep this fund in its giro account until further notice. So, those who are excused for these funds should get this money immediately because it's been gone for six months this year. As for the cold. I agree with the Secretary of State that the damage has not yet been fully assessed and that it will be possible to assess it in a short time. However, I must say that certain agro-melorative measures could significantly reduce the damage. If the government were to act immediately and any direct payment means, according to the subsidy, to the fruit growers immediately, these funds could be used to mitigate the damage. Thus we go from last year’s impact to this year’s, and the growers are justifiably concerned that they do not have the resources to do anything to prevent further damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you. Member Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! The municipality of Sevnica, where I am also at home, is one of the poorest in Slovenia, according to my assessment. I also assess this on the basis of income per capita. In this municipality, the industry is mostly labour intensive, there is some trade, with extremely poor traffic, where there are extremely poor salaries; because there are a lot of textile industries in this labour-intensive sector, there are also some in the big crisis. Not long ago I thought that in the morning, a few more than 100 workers were back on the road. As early as January 25, 2001, I asked the government an oral question because I wanted to know what measures the government would take this year, and even in the coming years, to improve this poor situation in these poorly developed municipalities, but of course there was no answer to today. Then let's say [[25.1.2001]] Mag. Igor Strmšnik said, given the scope of the questions raised and their considerable weight, because these are key strategic questions to answer your questions in writing. There are no answers. Not today. Because I expect that these answers will not, although I have also written here, many Slovenian families are threatened and many on the brink of despair and also poverty. Because the government knows everything, and I hope she can answer that question. I'd like to ask you to tell me how the family can survive, if you know of course the recipe for how the family can survive with 40, 50, 60 thousand tolars a month. I would ask you to explain what to buy, what food, what bills to pay, which bills to pay, which clothes to buy, and which shoes to buy, and in general what the recipe is for survival with 60,000 dollars. I'm asking for a thorough answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u192	I understand you're asking for a written answer. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u193	This time, you're gonna have to stand
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u194	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u195	An oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u196	What about your lips? The Ministry of Labour will answer. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Thank you for your word. I have to admit, I can't give an exact oral answer because I'm covering another area. The State Secretary, who covers employment and work, is unfortunately absent. Therefore, I personally guarantee that Mr Member will receive, as soon as possible, a written answer to the question raised at that time and, additionally, today to the extent that is, of course, objectively possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you. Would you like that? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. About a month ago, the Telecommunications Act was published in the Official Journal. When we discussed the Telecommunications Act in the National Assembly, 156th article was adopted, which discussed the way and conditions of return to investors. He says: "Investment of individual investors and local communities in the public telecommunications network will be restored in a manner and under conditions, as specified by a special law, which will be adopted by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within six months of the entry into force of this law." Given that the Telecommunications Act is already in force and, according to the practice of the previous National Assembly, which I have in view of the written promises, conclusions and so on, there has been no timely response. This time, just for reasons of prevention, I ask the government whether it is already preparing this special law and when the time has come when it will put it into the National Assembly. In fact, there is a procedure in the National Assembly and it will be very fast for six months, so we have to count that summer time is coming, allow it and so on. So, preventively today for the first time and, of course, until next time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Tomaž Kalin, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Member, Mr Pukšić, for your concern. Of course, we are aware that making this marriage is not easy. That is why we have engaged a consultative group that will review all so many and so many thousands of applications, assess the financial sequences of this, prepare for us, for our use, a proposal on how to do this work, I also mean technically, returns, according to the methodology to be defined in the law. We asked them to receive a report on this work on 1 July. Our plan is to go to the government on 1 September, 15 September, to the National Assembly, after a rapid procedure, 45 days, so that if the National Assembly works with energy, as we see it being prepared, the law should be adopted within the time limit for which we agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you. The word has been given by the Members of the Council, Franz Chebulj. He's not here. Member Franz Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u203	Your Honor! My question is addressed more to the government than to individual ministries. It is, however, replaced by data from the World Comparative Yearbook issued annually by the International Institute for the Development of AMD from Lausanne, Switzerland, which now covers an analysis of 47 countries, 29 from the OECD and 18 from developing countries. Among them is Slovenia. Compared to other countries that could provide data and were included in a comparative analysis, Slovenia has a relatively luxurious school system. After the number of students per teacher, we are even in the 11th or 14th place, and we give a lot for education. According to the percentage of gross social product for education, we are even 13th out of 47 countries. So, top of the top third. After the availability of qualified engineers of technological knowledge, the quality of the product of science, we are on the tail, 43rd or 45th place. As for the quality of corporate administrations and the credibility of managers, we are on the tail, 42nd or 44th of 47 countries. I wonder if in Slovenia it is an inefficient school system, or is it increasingly subject to political rather than professional criteria to be employed in companies? Or is it both at the same time? More than interesting, however, is the fact that according to those criteria, which do not depend on government policy, Slovenia is ranked relatively high in 25th and 28th place. It is the power of the domestic economy and the availability of human resources. According to the quality of our conduct and the contribution of government policy, we are back on track. In the sad 45th place in a group of 47 states, including Indonesia, Philippines, Mexico, Argentina, Thailand, four countries in transition and so on. Thus, not only is the overall quality of human resources significantly higher, but the quality of corporate administrations and the credibility of managers, but also the quality of government in Slovenia is far from reaching the quality of resources, the quality of resources available to the government. Well, in a little bit of a remark that this country deserves better managers and better government, it's quite a truth. I ask, has the government already analysed the reasons for its inefficiency and the low quality of its policy? What measures does the government envisage to improve its work in order to raise from the bottom of a shamefully poor estimate at least to the level of quality achieved and earned by Slovenians? In response, please do not refer to the short-term Bajuk government, as the contribution of government policy in 1999 was even worse valued and placed in the last 47th place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Who will answer, please? Who's going to answer, please? Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr Member, for the question. On behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, I can at least answer this question that our ministry, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in its part of the national programme, is seeking to define the development of human resources as one of the important areas of this country. I think you'll find part of the answers to that question in him. Another issue is the preparation of new education and education programmes in the field of vocational and vocational education, which we intend to pay much more attention to in the future, as well as in cooperation with other departments, to improve its effectiveness. We're aware of the information you've provided. The answer, however, is likely to have to be fully prepared by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you. The Secretary of State was in charge. Drago balance. Excuse me? Excuse me, mag. Mirko Zorman. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. Member Bogomir Zámernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I wanted to raise a question with the Ministry of Environment and Space, and I had already pointed out to Mr Kopač the questions he had received from other colleagues, so that I would not be wasting my time with this. However, I would like to take the initiative in this regard, because the issue has also been addressed to the Prime Minister by the removal of the consequences of the floods, and since this removal of the consequences has been taking place for ten years, since 1990, I would like to give the Prime Minister the initiative that a high visit is now envisaged for June, because, as far as I know, it is not yet clear where the meeting of the American and Russian President should take place in the Logar Valley. In addition to the praise that will undoubtedly be present, these two presidents will be able to see with their own eyes how the current government solves problems in this area. However, the second question I had ready for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy, unfortunately I cannot address it, I have already sent it in writing on 17 April 2001. The business deadline in Article 31 is quite clear - for the next meeting an answer should be prepared. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Mamić's knowledge of his procedural proposal. It's unacceptable to do so. What's the point of talking here in a half-empty hall, writing to the government if there's no answer to that. I'm sorry that the Minister isn't here today to thank him. The last time I had the same problem, I gave him a copy of the question, and when I gave it to him like that, he arranged for the matter to come here. It is embarrassing for me to do so for every question I send, this should follow automation. And I very much ask that the question which was sent on 17 April 2001 regarding the criteria for scholarships be agreed upon. So, let me quickly describe, Mr former Member of Parliament will be able to tell me something about this. Letters from the parents of some primary schools say that it is unacceptable to determine whether the material conditions for pupils, apprentices and students who are educated outside the place of permanent residence are met, despite, of course, much higher costs, both by transport, by boarding school, by education, are placed under the same criteria as those of students and colleagues who are educated at the place of school or at the place of residence. I'd ask nicely, but to answer that question. One more question, and this is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, but it will be very short because time has run out. In the case of the veterinary law, I have described a specific case that is still quite real. Then in the bench, I made a deal with Mr. Director of Veterinary Administration. I have not received an answer from him to this day, despite the assurance that he will submit a full report on this case, but this has not yet happened. And I very much ask that this report really be delivered to our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The first question will be answered by Secretary of State Zbogar Samuel. Excuse me? I'm sorry, Mr. Žnidaršič, but it seems to me that a question has been asked about the Logar Valley, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u209	No, I guess not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u210	Well, please, mag. Sergeant Franz, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr Member, on the question you raised on 17.4. this year and you have not received an answer, we will prepare a written reply, and I guarantee you will get it, as I promised your colleague. I think it's right that you pointed that out, and it's our duty to give that answer. On the second question, as regards the criteria for scholarship, I understand the question that the Ministry should answer why students, apprentices and students who are studying outside the place of residence are, therefore, why they are subject to the same criteria for scholarship as those who are studying in their place. We will also answer this question in writing, because I am covering an entirely different department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Please also Secretary of State Chadonic Špelič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you. I would only ask the esteemed Member of the Ambassador if he could tell me what the subject was about the Director of the VURS in order to make it easier to order this written answer and then not to ask questions sent if it is possible at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u214	It's possible. However, due to the rationalisation of time, I could not again describe the case that had already been described in detail in the veterinary law. So when you tell Mr. Kovac why I asked you, of course he will know very well what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Also Secretary of State, Samuel Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Just for a moment on a proposal regarding the Logar Valley. The Organising Committee has been convened by the government and the committee will meet in five minutes. As you know, the location of the summit meeting has not yet been determined. Top, the place will be set in consultation with the Russian Federation and the United States of America. And, of course, I will also bring your proposal to the Organising Committee that this be in the Logar Valley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. There's a Member of Parliament, mag. Andrej Vizjak. He's not here. Member Pavel Rupar has the floor. He's not here. Member Janez Cimperman has the floor. He's not here. Dear Members and Members! I'm closing today's session. Please! I'm just asking for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u218	When I was in line for Mr Kopač's question, and you promised me, Mr Pahor promised to give me an opportunity to ask a question. That's why I'm asking for some patience. Mr Kopač, when you presented yourself as a candidate for a minister, I asked you two questions, related to how to deal with those parcels that are walled and the owners do not want to sell them, and then another question, what about those houses that are in the'studio', they have more owners and they don't know where they are, etc. At the time, you promised me that your question was very nice and that you would do something. I wonder if you've done something about it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u219	I said that at the time, I remember very well that there is some kind of way to move, because there is nothing that can be resolved quickly, but what to move about this problem is indicated in the coalition contract in the chapter on real estate tax. This law comes from the Ministry of Finance, it's in the government's annual work programme, I don't know exactly, it's a bit late, but I think it'll be here soon. Otherwise, this instant of other instruments is not available. The only one who is still available, I do not remember whether I explained this to you or not at the time, is in the hands of the congregations. At this point, however, municipalities may accept a different amount of loading points with compensation for the use of building land in such buildings, such as decomposing houses or the like. I know two such cases, one in Ljubljana, where we are charging a special premium in compensation for the use of building plots for non-walled building plots within the urban area, i.e. the so-called fillings, where owners do not want to build or cannot, or whatever else, pay a special tax at the same time, and the other such premium is for unused business premises in the city centre, for abandoned business premises or unused. Another example I read about in the newspaper is the Grosuplje Congregation, where they also went under various burdens with compensation for the use of building land according to the use of the building’s land. This can already be done by the congregations, while they cannot, and this is probably what you are most interested in in in this regard, by converting your unpaid tax into real estate as owners. So, this would be the way some house with multiple co-owners is falling apart, and where there's no real guardian gets one owner. Now that's not possible. But I hope it's possible. Mr. Concan is here, a lawmaker on property taxes. In short, I hope that this will be enshrined in the real estate tax law, and then I am sure that the municipalities will also be happy to use these instruments in cases where this is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda item. We will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. with agenda item 2. Goodbye.
