ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Bogomir Vnučec, Marko Diaci, Victory Jelinčič, Janez Cimperman, for the morning, and Mr Diaci and Jelinčič for the afternoon. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Put your cards in. I note that 62 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Today's continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 4th item, this is a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent loans to finance the gradual closure of the Trbovlje Hrastnik Mine in 2001 and then we will go to the remaining items in order as they were adopted. I would like to inform you that he has prepared a position for the 3rd item, but the material is still in preparation. Once the material has been distributed to Members and Members of Parliament, this item will be placed on the agenda. As far as I'm concerned, the government's representatives are on their way, so we're expecting them at any moment. I'm moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the rental of loans for the financing of the phased closure of the mines of the poultry-breeding industry in the summer of 2001, rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're moving to first reading. He is not yet a representative of the Government, so I would like the Committee on the Economy to present the Committee's opinion on the proposal for a law as its parent working body. Please, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The committee's report is very brief, so I won't be holding your attention much longer. Today, the Committee has considered a proposal for a law. In fact, according to the law adopted last July by this National Assembly on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine in the budget, sufficient resources could not be provided and therefore one part is envisaged to be financed by borrowing a loan and therefore a guarantee is needed. A total of SIT 1 billion 647 million is included in the draft budget, so it is necessary to rent EUR 2 billion 229 million of credit in debt at the time of the state guarantee. In addition to the bill, we also had the opinion of the secretariat. There was one single comment, which is more editorial in nature. On this basis, we have also adopted an amendment committee. I propose that the National Assembly consider the draft law and adopt it together with the proposed amendment of the Committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I have here one application for a debate on behalf of the Group of Members - Mr Zoran Gračner, please, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, to present a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent loans to finance the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine in 2001. The law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the developmental restructuring of the Sava region, adopted by the National Assembly in June 2000, also provides a legal basis for the implementation of the closure programme of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, whose production for ecological and economic reasons will no longer be acceptable in the future. If we refresh our memory a little, there were two reasons why we should adopt such a law. The first refers to a majority referendum decision in January 1999 that the state will not co-finance the construction of a new Thermoelectricarium 3 in Trbovje, nor will it guarantee loans. Another reason is the situation in a region where most of the activities are still dependent on energy, which has dominated the region for over 200 years. It is also worth noting here that it was the opponents of the construction of the Termoelectrica 3 that defended the gradual closure of the Trbovlje and Hrastnik mines at the same time as the restructuring of the region. At the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, following a referendum decision in September 1999, produced an assessment of the cost of closure in production by the end of 2015. The assessment was based on the ideas of how to close the cave and the ecological and spatial surfaces. This assessment was reviewed by the local professional institution Erica Velenje and the German Montana Consulting G.m.b.h. On the basis of this review, the RTH closure cost assessment was commissioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the RTH to produce the first phase of closure for the period 2000 to the end of 2004. In the first half of 2000, it was decided by the Government that RTH should only have production by 2007 or more until 30.10.2007, by closing the mine by the end of 2012. On the basis of such prepared documentation, the Government introduced into the National Assembly a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region, which was also adopted at the 51st meeting on 21 June 2000, with the entry into force in July 2000. RTH immediately sent to the competent Ministry of Economy in August 2000 an RTH closure programme for two years, 2000 and 2001. On the basis of the adopted law and on the basis of the early provision of funds in the 2000 budget, the first closures under the closure programme were launched, in particular in terms of closure of already abandoned caves and degraded areas above them. Due to the changed priorities between economic activities, the funds to date have unfortunately not yet been used for this purpose. There wasn't any money, even though it was 28. In November 2000, a contract signed between the Ministry of Economic Activities and RTH of 361 million for at least partial coverage of the costs of the works already carried out, and despite the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs received the first aggregate situation in December 2000 and that there was a second situation in preparation. It is worth noting here that, despite the signed contracts and confirmed situations in the closing works, no funds have been received in Rudnik-Trbovlje Hrastnik from the envisaged and budgetary resources. The budgetary situation at the end of 2000 and the dynamics in the implementation of other energy projects have led to the fact that the draft budget of 2001 cannot include all of them, with the programme of the planned resources for this year. The continuation of the delay in this long-term project would jeopardise the deadline for implementation. Moreover, the surplus of assets cannot be constructed from current operations, as it has to provide the Thermoelectrical Coal Trbovlje at a competitive price. Since the implementation work has been under way since 2000, it is necessary to ensure funding for the works performed and commitments made for the urgently needed closure equipment. The 2000 programme also provides for 3.8 billion tolars of budgetary resources, and 1647 million tolars are provided in the draft budget, so that the difference of 2.229 million tolars needs to be provided with spare parts, that is, with the State guarantee. Borrower Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik will, of course, try to reduce the projected amount of loan costs. Dear Members, honourable Members. By adopting this law, we will enable the implementation of the law on the gradual closure of Trbovlje Hrastnik Mine and the developmentally restructured region, which will allow us in Zasavje, in terms of restructuring, to gradually celebrate the traditional energy activity that still employs more than 2,000 people and which, in the near history, represents a regenerator for the development of Slovenia and enables us all to develop as we do today. For this reason and respect for the implementation of the laws already adopted in the National Assembly, we will support the proposal of the LDS in the LDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj has the floor on behalf of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Considering he's a mag. Gračner very well explained the purpose and content of the law adopted in the National Assembly and I will therefore limit myself to only one segment in my implementation. I would like to present to you the indicative plan for 2001 in the light of the implementation of the draft budget for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, from which I am trying only to prove this direct link between the production to be provided by workers of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and, of course, taking into account the part of the state resources on which Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik was based. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine planned 10.2 billion revenues for 2001, of which 6.4 billion were based on the sale of coal and 3.8 billion from the budget, in accordance with the law on the closure of the RTH mine. In accordance with the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, if I round, 3.8 billion resources from the 2001 budget were also defined to reduce the sales price of coal by 19%, to 6.99 DEM per gigajull. The sales price of coal is expected to continue to decrease in the coming years, but budget resources must then be provided at the level defined by law. Planned resources 1.65 billion from the draft budget do not allow closing costs to be implemented, as the projected cost structure for closing is approximately 0.5 billion costs of material, 1.6 billion costs of services, including ecological recovery, and 1.4 billion labour costs. The requirements for a consistent planning of the implementation of coal production and closing works in accordance with the law on gradual closure of RTH also show, according to the proposed budget, a deficit of 2.2 billion or, if so expressed, 2,200 million tolars. In the framework of the RTH plan adopted, liquidity deficits - I am talking about regular business - amounting to 190 million tolars, which means additional liabilities of 190 million to a billion 40 or 1,040 million tolars already in existence, which means half of the long-term debt. At this level of EUR 1,647 million, an additional debt of EUR 2,200 million cannot be realised without the State guarantee, as it has already been exposed to lower amounts of credit, even if up to 300 million. At the same time, additional interest costs should also be noted. Once again, I would like to stress this strong interrelationship of reduced production on the one hand and on the other hand the sales price of coal for energy needs with the law on gradual closure and the amount of budgetary resources foreseen in the law. The budget shortfall of 2,200 million amounts to two- and a half-monthly realisation of the existing mine in the regular production and inability to operate and non-execution of closing works, with major disruptions in the production of coal. It is only a real solution, as proposed in the revision of the draft budget plan for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik 2001 mine, otherwise, given the lack of such funds in 2000, which has already been mentioned today, we can safely argue that the implementation of the Gradual Closure Act will be extended even before the closure has started. I would also like to support this indicative demonstration of the operation of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine for 2000 and point out that this is only the first phase of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine closure programme, from 2000 to 2004 - as defined in the law, is the next phase by 2007, until the end of October 2007 - and the completion or completion of the closing works to be completed at the end of 2011 and 2012 respectively. The table also shows the costs of closing the mine. If we compare the period of these five years, in 2000 there were 1,413, in 2004 there will be 1,124 of them, by 189 reductions, but the production workers in the year 2000 were to be 1,182, which was to be 735, while the closing and surface rehabilitation workers were to be redistributed from 2000 when they were currently in 131, to 350 in 2004. Therefore, the revenues from coal production are also aggregated - I am talking about what is a regular production - and, of course, together with the closure costs that you know should be provided from 2000 to 2004 with almost 16 billion and 16,000 million for this first phase. I do not think it is particularly necessary to stress that the programme of gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine is a special specificity and we cannot talk about restructuring and technological transformation if it comes to normal production. A machine can be taken from one hall, I would say, to another, but of course we can't do what we've been doing 370 or even 380 meters underground, of course, to redecorate these things so that we can do these things for a while, so if the funds are not enough to stop them. This is an extremely demanding intervention that can have very catastrophic consequences in one way or another. If I am still speaking on behalf of Zasavja, I must say that we have also been preparing ourselves in Zasavje and are also ready for transformation and for this structural transformation even after 2007 or after 2011, and that is why in Zasavje we have not been exclusively tied to coal and energy; we have been waiting for the decision of the government and Parliament to decide whether it needs coal as a basic raw material, energy, to produce energy. In the National Assembly, it was so decided that no. Of course, by thinking that at the time Members were very well aware that this is a very high obligation that the State will have to ensure through the budget that these works are closed as defined by the relevant legislation. I think that there were no different views in the Joint List of Social Democrats in the Group of Members, if I am talking now only about the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, since she was also a proponent for the possible continuation of the T3 thermal energy facility; she decided not to, so, of course, he also received this bill, which spoke of closure, all the support. And so we also appeal to you, honourable Members, to support you today, as we are in the Consolidated List, the Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia and that we will be able to carry out in Zasavje what we have assumed as our obligation also before the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have before me an order to announce the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region, published on 6 July last year in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The order, the conclusion of this institute, this legislative branch of power, whether it's a miner's wish or a man's wish or a man's wish. And it grieves me that today we have to come to the same conclusion as colleagues in the previous reference to this House, as colleagues in the previous reference in this House have already decided. Of course in a different form. It saddens me that the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine will have to appear as a borrower and take care of what it has already proved and make sure that it reduces the cost of this loan as much as possible. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I will end up, because of the clean face of all of us here, which we are replacing, and some of you remain from the previous reference, I think we need to support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, many colleagues know how things work these days when our budget is adopted. And just what we're concluding right now is a good school to go. Therefore, once again, for the pure face of this institution, I hope that there will be no doubt about the adoption of the proposal for a guarantee law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr Kelemina, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, all together! Our Socialist Party Group, unfortunately, cannot, in principle, oppose what has already been adopted in the National Assembly, namely that a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine and on the developmental restructuring of the region has been passed. Of course, certain obligations follow from this, but we are surprised by the way that the state is actually served then by law enforcement. We have found this at several institutes that the country is also used for the individual enforcement of laws in a different system and our assessment is that it is the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine in a privileged position. In particular, a number of national programmes and a whole range of other laws, which were also adopted by the National Assembly and which would need to be adopted in some dynamics, are not adopted or implemented in the same dynamics as they were adopted, but, of course, in the dynamics prescribed by the law on the implementation of the budget. Given that only 1.6 billion tolars are provided in this year's state budget and that it is necessary to rent credit, we are, of course, asking ourselves for the first time, and I hope that we will also get an answer to this question - where, of course, the budget will then cover this difference of 2.2 billion tolars that need to be provided, where this is located in the state budget, where this item is covered as some kind of joint retention and where this is actually located. Of course, a large question is also raised in view of the fact that the State is not able to implement certain obligations assumed by the National Assembly and, in particular, there is certainly a large part of the interest which falls due to this debt within this repayment period, as proposed in the law, for 3 years. In particular, some 650 million tolars of interest and other loan costs are foreseen. According to our assessment, it is extremely high interest rates and it would be right that, like the opinion of the secretariat and also the Committee on the Economy, it would be necessary to find some solutions here to minimize these interest rates, or it is unacceptable at all that due to irregular policy, then there is a payment of such large interest and, of course, it is supported by someone other than some obligation, some transactions to the bank or by another institution. Of course it's from taxpayers' money. Our Group of Members, in view of these comments, which I have also now described, regrettably, because of the way in which the State is serving, will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Any other MPs would like to present their position? He doesn't want to. At that time, a government representative, Mr Golob, joined us and I ask him if he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting from the government to everyone. I would like, perhaps, as an introductory explanation, to give just one point of view. This law is without prejudice to the acceptance of some new obligations. Thus, we are not expanding our obligations beyond the framework laid down in the law on the gradual closure of RTH, but we are trying in some way to optimise this, namely, the engagement of funds, budgetary resources. Why Optimize? Since the budget will only be adopted somewhere in the middle of the year, then, I will also say, it is very difficult at this stage to plan spending very precisely. And since the law on the closure of RTH itself speaks of the amount up to, there will also be the possibility of hiring a loan of up to 2,200 billion. And it doesn't say anywhere that this loan is actually going to be hired, but it's just a guarantee up. Whether it is actually necessary to rent such a high loan or not, it will show the process of closure and control over the use of funds. By really appealing, this is about optimising the use of resources, not the dissemination of rights, and in this light I would then call on Members to deal with this law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There were no written applications for the debate, so I am limiting the debate of other Members and Members, who have not applied in writing to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Who wants a word? Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I support the closure of this mine, but I ask myself the following questions. In recent times and before, the government has probably sent a variety of guarantees into consideration in the future. I'm interested in this. What is the process followed by the approval of these guarantees? So I ask the government representative whether this mine will be able to repay the loan, as it was written, I quote "within a maximum of three years of repayment". What government analysis has shown as to the ability of this borrower to repay it. I imagine the government has made such an account and it would be very interesting to see what this thing looks like, this analysis. And even though I'm not against closing, or against the guarantee itself, but I would like to know, to be assured that this guarantee of heaven came on the shoulders of taxpayers after three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you. Who wants a word from the Members? Please, Mr. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Although I don't see any provision here in the law where it would be up to the value of this, it basically says the most. Well, if that means that the funds can't exceed 2.2 billion, then that actually means we can't go through, but now I haven't noticed that word here, I don't know where it's written. It's kind of important, but I don't see it anywhere. I would like to ask again, but I would like to answer this question, where this is now shown in the budget as this commitment, an additional commitment, because I do not know now if you, if the 2001 harvest budget has taken into account the law. If it has already been taken into account and whether this is evident in an item, it shall be the borrowing of the loan and those liabilities, if they are visible anywhere or only in the years to come, when the actual credit starts to be paid. These things are of interest to me. I want an answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you. Who wants another word? Yes, please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The closure of mines is a European process today, as the extraction of raw materials is moving to third-world countries, mainly for ecological reasons and for cheaper labour, is said in addition to ecological reasons. Nevertheless, Europe uses raw materials for industrial industries that are bound to mining. Today, for example, there are very large mine closure projects in Germany, in the countries of Eastern Europe. In particular, I would like to point out in Germany that the state is investing very much in closing their mines, especially in the eastern part of the country, where East Germany once spread. They are investing very large amounts from Germany's budget here in order to remedy the very serious environmental consequences of long-standing mining as soon as possible. In addition to Eastern Europe, these processes in the past have also taken place in Western Europe. And there it turned out that ten, twenty, and more years ago, individual mines were shut down very superficially and unprofessionally. They simply turned the key, and the miners lost their jobs, the lead went elsewhere, and so on. However, they have become and have had major consequences for the environment and for the people living in those areas. This year, for example, the French Government set up a special international expert group, which includes an expert from Slovenia. The geology of Bojan Režun, along with experts from Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, South Africa and France. In France, therefore, there are major problems as the closure of mines in the Metza area, Aumetza, is said to be in the northeast of France, in those areas affected by some 200,000 inhabitants. It is said that the French government took this problem very seriously, for some of these mines were unprofessionally closed 20 years ago, and some of these mines are still being closed today. Why am I telling this story? I am telling this because before this process of closing mines in Slovenia we must not close our eyes. I would like to be critical in this place to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because if we look this year at how the state finances the closure of mines, then I must say that it does so irresponsiblely. In the 2001 draft budget, we have not raised enough funds to finance the closure of this mine, which we are now talking about. So, Zagorje or Hrastnik-Trbovlje and we have to rent expensive loans. Of course, the situation is not any better elsewhere, since the mood in the government is negative until the mines are closed, despite the fact that we are now adopting this law. For these closing mines are regarded as unnecessary costs, which burden the state budget. I will say this only in the case of the mine in Idrija After twelve, after temporary funding from the state budget, the mine in Idrija should receive 50 million tolars each month for closing works. It is said that within three months, in January, February and March 150 million tolars, while the country spent only 72 million tolars to close the Idrija mine within three months, less than half of all funds. However, the government has recommended to the management of this Idrian mine, in which case the state mine is now only hiring expensive bank loans, so that it can in fact carry out those tasks that the country, with special law, has committed to this mine management. And at the end of the day, of course, the state will have to pay dear interest and expensive loans. Today we have three metal mines in Slovenia that are closing down. Girovski vrh, Idrija, Měžica and several coal mines. Finally, allow me, Mr Vice-President, because it is time for me to discuss the proposal for a decision, which I would recommend, to adopt by the National Assembly, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a report on the closures in all Slovenian mines and a timetable and a financial plan for their final closure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I expect this conclusion in writing, Mr Bevk. Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you again, chairman. I'm addressing respectable colleagues from the opposition side. I don't like the way the marriage is gonna be fulfilled either. I don't like the fact that a mine that already has enough problems in a place where we all live, which has enough other problems as a place to live, will still have to be in debt. However, it seems to me, on the basis of everything we have experienced recently, even when we adopt the budget, that it would be good, once again, for the sake of the pure face of this institution, the legislative branch of authority, and the second time that we unanimously - I propose or advise - we will adopt a proposal for a guarantee law, because this agreement, I will say, if we are now 70 or 80, I suppose, a strong enough commitment to this country to start meeting what it has committed itself. Thank you for listening to me; I did not want to influence your decision, but it seems to me that our paths are intertwined, so it would be good to follow my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would like briefly to replicate to Mr Barovic that I strongly support and deeply agree with him in his implementation. However, we should probably find some criteria to ensure that everyone in this national assembly and in this country is equal. In this case, the government has made an effort to find a solution, but because of some interests, according to my assessment of the few lobbyists and so on, I can reach out to many other law, which is also important, but I cannot find an appropriate solution. One of these laws - just to remind me of it - is the law on exploiting the potential of the lower Sava, which we adopted last year, is not being implemented or implemented. It is not carried out to that extent, in that dynamic, as it was adopted in this National Assembly. I know that Mr Undersecretary of State Dr Robert Golob has the answers to what I have just said, but the fact is that the dynamics of this law are not being carried out as envisaged by this law. And it's also a whole series of other laws that I'm not talking about national programmes and so on. I fully agree with you, my dear fellow, that it would be fair for the authorities to consolidate themselves once and for them to find ways to meet the commitments they have made. Unfortunately, all of these things are not principled enough, but because of the people who are in a difficult situation in this area, as well as in other areas, we are almost forced to support such government decisions that are not the best. I'm sorry. In short, I support your deep thinking, but I am truly disappointed that the government has double criteria for individual areas and for individual matters. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I personally agree with this proposal, and I believe the arguments that have been made by individual colleagues. In fact, this is a problem that needs to be addressed. It is true, however, that this government behaves very differentiatedly, and this, in my profound belief, is unfair, unfair and irregular to the entire area of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, colleagues and colleagues, we passed this national council a law on coherent regional development. When I have also flown the amendments of my mother's working body, I see no solution in this area, which imposes on us a law on coherent regional development, even more. The cynical change in the regional development line decreased by 50 % from two billion to one billion. And, of course, in such a budget and in time from the budget to the preparation of amendments, so to speak, there were ten billion fresh ones, but this was not the case because the law requires at least 1% of GDP to be earmarked for resolution in this area. I would like to point out that this is necessary, but for other areas in the Republic of Slovenia, there are few, about two thirds of the territory and about one third of the population live in such areas. And, of course, where living standards are the lowest and where unemployment rates are highest, in these areas, which should be addressed through the law on coherent regional development, unfortunately, this is not visible, and I hope that colleagues and fellow Members will have an understanding of the adoption of the budget, as colleagues Barovic earlier called for you to be in favour of such an amendment, which will talk about coherent regional development of funds for this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Perhaps you would answer these questions, now I would say, after this first round, Mr Golob, and then you would continue the debate if that was why. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you. In fact, it would be more like a starting point than an answer. Here we are not talking about the means to restructure the region, but we are talking about the means to close the mine. These are two very separate items. Mine closure funds are linked to a programme that has been internationally revised and similar and needs to be completed by 2007. Not because the mine would want to, but because it is its obligation, it is not a right, it is an obligation imposed by the National Assembly. We've tied the RTH mine to close. Of all the debates we've had in the past, when we've extended it, I'm going to say a life of 5, 3 with different cleaning appliances, now we're closing it down. We can't lock him up without funds. If we don't lock him up, we'll be in five years, maybe not this state council, but somebody else, having the same debate whether we can close him down in time or not. For this reason, it is very important that the law in this work, which speaks of physical closure, and now we are dealing with this work alone, is actually trying to respect as much as possible from the beginning. Once again, because we do not know how the work will take place, only half of the funds provided for in the budget are even less. I believe that 40 per cent of the approximately legally envisaged funds under the law on the closure of RTH are foreseen in the budget for this year. However, in order not to be behind the programmes due to the liquidity problems of the State and the budget, it is necessary to provide the possibility of borrowing credits if this need for lending occurs. And that's all we're talking about today. On the question previously, what are the costs? It appears from the explanation that during these three years there are some 600 million in the total amount of interest costs and the servicing of credits, which is a relatively high number, I agree, was made on the basis of preliminary offers made by banks where the interest rate went, as I have explained on the committee today between 5,75 + TOM, TOM + 5,75 to TOM + 6,5, but this is an assessment. Once we have, if we have a guarantee, of course, the mine will be obliged to make a call for loans based on the guarantee and then it will be able to minimize the costs arising from interest. As far as interest costs are concerned this year, once again after the same assessment, which is possible at first sight, but somewhere we have to start, it is estimated that 87 million will be available this year to service interest. And this item is already included in the budget. Thus, we will not create any new burdens subsequently in the budget, but it is included in the draft budget under the same RTH closure item. Even what Member Bernik asked is actually RTH's recovery ability in this part where it closes is not a borrower who would be able to service it from his other income. In the end, taxpayers will pay, including these interest rates, through the budget, but not this year, 87 million this year, and the remainder in the coming year and 2003 respectively. We are not even trying to hide the situation here, but these are the servicing costs that arise so as not to burden the budget this year, because this year the budget situation is further difficult and then such a decision has been taken by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Grachner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to add to this or say that the law on coherent regional development and this law on the closure of the Trbovlje and Hrastnik mines, which in its third part also discusses this, aid for regional development, these two laws are mutually exclusive. For this reason, if certain projects are co-financed from this third part, in particular in these mining areas, which are destroyed and will not be used for certain economic purposes in the future, then these resources cannot be used under the coherent regional development law. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that again. Look, undersecretary of State, Dr. Golob, you said very well that the funds of the loan would actually come through a public invitation to tender and that, what I know, based on the current situation, the interest rate is expected to be around 5, 6 and half or something like that + TOM. According to my assessment, look, I have already said this several times and I think that the country as a marriage should, as a large guarantor, where these banks are actually dealing with risk-free capital because the state is the best guarantor that these funds will be repaid to the bank, so that in these guarantees the State should actually have those interest rates at least and the sums that are relatively high. I understand that the bank can't lend loans, let's say low interest rates at a small sum of 300,000, 500,000 tolars and so on, where it has large manipulative costs and so on, but this is a one-off transaction, a one-off operation, and I don't see why they're actually trying to secure their expansion, their profits and so on. This is unfair, including banking policies and these countries up to these, state problems, if I may say so, Slovenian problems. That's unacceptable. This is unacceptable and, according to my assessment of more than TOM+3, the state should not agree, although I know that it is on the basis of a call for proposals, but after previous negotiations, agreements, we should find a solution to make these interest actually as low as possible. This is my recommendation and so try to work in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. Yes, please, Mr. Tiny. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Allow me to ask perhaps two questions or concerns about the adoption of this law. Of course, I do not object to the provision of guarantees to ensure the closure of the mine. For the plan has also been adopted, and the country as owner is also in some way in charge. And that, of course, the maximum cost is reduced when the loans are married. That's understandable. However, I am interested in all of this, or I think that the state or government does not have a proper review of all these projects, not just the closure, but also others for whom it guarantees. I should know exactly how much of this guarantee capital is, how we are draining ourselves, under what conditions, to plan ahead what will follow from long-term development. And, of course, take all these things under small sight. In addition, we have experience closing some mines and also spending state money. If, on the one hand, you have an entity that can provide funds, either by borrowing credits or directly from the budget, there is an immediate establishment of some behaviour about the easier spending of money. If the country is behind this guarantee, there is still something to worry about how the funds will be spent. I will not specifically mention which mines were where they were used, I was also involved in the restructuring project and we have seen that it was simply waiting. Some administrative reports were pending and submitted to the government. That is why, of course, it is my warning, as well as the question to the government representative, that if we are already undertaking such a project to tackle it with all seriousness, we have a responsibility to the citizens. Otherwise, there is no way to add to this, except in the light of what I have just mentioned, the integrity of budgetary financing and the responsibility of us and the government to such solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I would ask the Under-Secretary to provide an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you. You might want to start with a full review of the guarantees. Unfortunately, I am not the most competent in this area, so - I know that individual reviews are being prepared every year, but the Ministry of Finance is the one that has a more comprehensive review, so unfortunately I do not have this examination in our energy or economy personally. As for the other part, I strongly agree with these comments that we need to be careful how we spend money. I would just like to say that the whole law on the closure of RTH has been directed from the beginning in this spirit. As early as last year when the law was being prepared, control mechanisms were put in place. This is the first such law to have these mechanisms, external mechanisms, outside the government, built in. This week's internal regulation on the implementation of control will also be issued and then on the basis of this international - I emphasise, international! - an invitation to choose a supervisor to ensure that all works are properly carried out technically and securityfully and that the money is deliberately spent [[for closing, we're talking now]] . So that he knows all these things very well on the one hand and also respects the recommendations that he has already taken into account in his own materials and regulations. So it's not too much if this happens twice, so that we'll actually respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Is there another debate? [[It's not.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. The second reading material is short. I remind you of this material, the date is 18.4.2001, this is the report on the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent loans to finance the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine in 2001, the rapid procedure. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please! Of the 71 present, 33 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 71 present, 37 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. As you know, you have three articles in your marriage. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 2 to which no amendment has been tabled. Does anyone want to discuss Article 2? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on Article 2. Let's vote. Of the 73 present, 39 were voted against, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. I am moving on to Article 3 of this Act, which has also not been amended. I open the debate on Article 3. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on Article 3. Let's vote. Of the 75 present, 42 were voted against, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 has also been adopted. We're going to the address. First, a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting on the title. Let's vote. Of the 75 present, 44 were voted against, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. And I'm moving on to the third treatment of this law. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. They want to? [[They don't want to.]] Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am going to the debate on the amendment, in fact they are no longer. I'm guessing we're just going to have to deal with it. There were no amendments. So, on the basis of Article 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the amendment violates mutual compliance? Of course not, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law in its entirety, please. Let's vote. Of the 75 present, 46 were voted against, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. It's an additional decision. I think you just got it on the table. An additional decision drawn up by Mr Bevk alone. Do you have this additional decision? The proposal for a decision is: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare a report this year on the closures in the Slovenian mines and the financial and deadline plans until their final closure." Just in case, I read it because I'm not quite sure you've all gotten this material. Can anyone please discuss this additional decision? Yes, please, Mr. Schvagan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you, Vice President. I certainly support the decision of Member Bevk, but this explanation is wrong, where he must write and coal mines Zagorje, Senovo, Kanjiarica, Trbovlje and Hrastnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Who else wants a word? No one else. Then I give this one, I close the debate and put this additional decision to the vote. Let's vote please. Of the 75 present, 49 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I also conclude this item on the agenda. And I'm moving on to 5. On the basis of a proposal for a decision on the date of initiation of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, for the purpose of determining their areas, for the modification of the scope of the municipalities and for the modification of the names and seats of the municipalities. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Internal Policy Committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Yes, we don't see a government representative here at that moment. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I do not have written applications, so I find that there is no interest from the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written applications to this point, so I limit the debate of the other Members to 5 minutes. Who wants to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. No one wants to discuss it. Nor are the amendments, it is said that we can move to a vote on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 73 present, 45.1 voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I'm moving on to the 5th A-point of the day, that's the defensively proposed Veterinary Act. The National Assembly began its consideration of the draft law at its 4th meeting and held a first and second hearing in the framework of a rapid procedure. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Who wants to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Viceroy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to discuss the bill in its entirety, but I think it makes no sense if these thoughts and the case that I am about to bring up do not hear at least the Director of Veterinary Administration and the Minister of State or the Secretary of Agriculture. So it could only be good that they are present at the consideration of the third examination of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	They're probably on their way, but we don't know yet. I would like to ask if, at this time, we can determine whether anyone else wants to discuss it in the context of the general debate, so that the debate can then be better managed. Let's wait for the secretary to return, and then we'll see soon. Just give me a second, we'll see. Government representatives are on their way. I'd suggest we take a break by 11:30. We'll continue at 11:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, may we proceed? Please, if we can come to a conclusion, because it is obvious that there are not as many Members and Members in the Chamber as there are Cards. I'm guessing we're on the clock. I welcome the Minister, Mr Booth, and we continue where we ended before our vacation. Mr Zammernik made a statement to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize to the Minister for this complication, but it is obvious that the government's holiday is also welcome for the inter-communal coordination that is still going on, so that you may wait for them to end. But somehow I felt the need for such an important law that we will now adopt, what is happening, so to speak, in the field, to hear at least the Minister - earlier I expressed the wish that it might be good for Mr Kovac to be with him, because he too is concerned with the things I will say below. This marriage is supposed to undo the consequences of all of these, I would say, Damocles' swords that are kind of around us, across all the countries, from BSE, parking lot and foot-and-mouth, and I don't know which diseases yet. But given the event I'm about to tell you, I'm very afraid that's not gonna happen. Of course, as it is said, from your mouth into God's ears, if you object. However, even now, under the current legislation, you claim that matters are somehow settled and if I believe that, perhaps the case that I am about to mention should not come to light. Now it's probably not Mr. Anderlich's interest and he's yelling from the bench, so he's in the way, but it would be good to hear it, because this is the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Mr Zampornik, I am sorry, it is obviously necessary to intervene a little, because some colleagues are very loud and I would like to ask that you do not discuss yourselves in the benches unless you report to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	As I said, this issue is, in particular, affecting the farming population and I believe that Mr Anderlich is not interested. However, you can also get from this population on the plate the meat you are about to eat, perhaps today for lunch and it might be good to be aware of what might happen in our country. On January 24, a farmer discovered that he had been sick with a cow, saying that he had observed similar symptoms, such as he had observed for four or five years on TV about BSE infection. He says, I call the vet, the vet comes home, then he can't stop and order a forced slaughter. This animal was taken to Celia Meat and then nothing happened. Since he's insured as a good master for this animal against death and other inconveniences, he said, well, if this animal is already gone, at least I'll get something from the insurance company. And that's why he calls 9.3., says after a good month and a half in Celje Meat and asks what the hell happened to my cow. Then, first, he's disillusioned, why he didn't call earlier, that's not how he did it, he should have called sooner. And the next day, an inspector or an inspector or an order comes in. I'm not gonna read everything. Huge things, including the prohibition of milk transmission due to suspicion of infection. Like what? Listeriosis. There could be others. But after a month and a half. He says if you're here this morning after she came home, did you pass on milk this morning? He says, of course I did, because I gave him up half a month after the disease. He says, no more, nothing more than today. He had a milk ban for 11 days, and then when he read it in the decision, when he got it home, he would have to infect the barn and the silage at his own expense than I don't know what measures he would still take at his own expense. While the insurance company will not reimburse him for the costs of the compulsory slaughter, he would have said at home that he had made a film, called the TV Tednik, you could watch the contribution on national television 22.3. Before the week's contribution, the animal doctor came in, said that by order of the inspector, to see what's going on with the rest of the cattle now in the barn, and he said, "I put this thing in the Weeknik, because I can't bear that you're doing this to me." He says, "Ah, you put, well, all right," he goes. The next day, the inspector calls him and says, "Now you can start giving milk." No infection, no action that was listed, but just, he started passing on milk. Then he called again to Celje Meat because it was on the TV Week by Mr. Kovac - and this is why I wanted to be here - it was said that the tests were there in two days, contrary to what Mr. Kovac claimed in this contribution, but in the Celje Meats of this gentleman it was said that he should not expect to get them in half a year at best, but the cow is still frozen if we haven't eaten in the cafeteria yesterday, right? That's how things are going now. I sincerely hope that on this particular case, Mr Minister, you will be able to remedy the shortcomings of this law that we are adopting today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate on the amendments tabled. Oh, I'm sorry! Because you can't see very well there - Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Well, the previous debate, unofficial, if we say so, before this law was discussed, was actually a sign of the inadequacy of some of the articles of the proposed law. It applies specifically to the functioning of the National Veterinary Institute. The fact is that the law so far does not speak of what will happen to the previous Veterinary Institute of Slovenia, but we organise a new national veterinary institute. The law now in force is that the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia should be organised as a public institution, referred to in Article 77 of the current law. Thus, according to the provisions of this law we should have in Slovenia today the Institute of Veterinary Medicine of Slovenia. Article 69 of this Law provided for the activities of the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia to be carried out by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. So it is a completely uncoordinated content of the existing law, how to organise a veterinary institute that is already in operation today. And to this, I would say, the inadequacies of organisation under this law would also be added by the Veterinary Institute or part of the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia, which passes into the National Veterinary Institute, and we will only add to this inadequacy a whole range of obligations, including equipment, spaces and not least people. If we look at the report of the Veterinary Institute for 2000, we could find that we are transferring laboratories located in Murski Sobota - one in Murski Sobota, two in Ptuj, one in Maribor, one in Celje, Novi Gorica, one in Kranj, two in Novo mesto and one in Ljubljana and in these laboratories there are also 42 people employed. So if we continue to adopt this law in the way it is before us today, we will certainly prevent normal functioning or the current Veterinary Institute of Slovenia or the newly created National Veterinary Institute. We'll have two institutions. And to one of these institutions, we also transfer people. But we haven't said how or what status you're supposed to have. It is even more worrying that it will not be possible to obtain adequate accreditation for the laboratories currently in the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia during this extremely difficult period. This means that we will not meet the basic criteria that the European Union, but not only the European Union, but also probably require ourselves to ensure that this top institution operates in accordance with the law and, of course, protects mainly consumers or users of food products covered by this part of the veterinary faculty or university or this part of the profession which is organised to control the issue of animals. I think that continuing the adoption of this law without a prior sober examination of this problem is, in my opinion, unrealistic. I would therefore suggest that we try to break this agenda and continue working with another until we agree on the content of the functioning of the Institute, the Veterinary Institute, or the National Veterinary Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	Mr Weber, I understand that this is also a kind of procedural proposal in addition to the substantive debate. Isn't it? Because you said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	Somehow I see no other way than to reach out to this procedural possibility that the point should be interrupted and that a solution to the organisation of the National Veterinary Institute or the organisation of the status of the current Veterinary Institute of Slovenia should be agreed, and we continue to work with another point, which is only possible at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	I'm afraid, Mr. Weber, your proposal is somewhat incomplete. Even though he's procedural. For you speak in the indefinables. I think it should be made very clear who should do something, that something is not clear. We have here an amendment of the government, or a text of the government, which is its proposal. Now your opinion, which is different from that obviously, is here by the Minister and other government representatives who would like to say something about it, and perhaps you should listen to them first to see how we get out of this mess. Please, Mr. Secretary, perhaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. As regards the first question and the debate of Mr Zammernik, otherwise my colleague, Mr Kovac, seems to have a precise explanation of why and why. Personally, I don't think that's right and I attach it to you. If that was true, it is something that needs to be changed in practice. Of course, the reality must be taken into account. And this is that diagnostics take so long and so long. Of course, there is no excuse that if it really was so that in this case and at that time, someone can perform unmistakably, for example, some other activities such as milk or the like. Then here I will look for this irregular step and I do not know the problems of this case personally, so I have not discussed it before. As for the law itself and the proposal not to deal with the law. See, this law, as proposed, has also been discussed with the responsible and responsible representatives of the European Commission, and the position was absolutely positive and they considered this to be an appropriate law and a suitable basis for a small country such as Slovenia. As far as the questions of Article 57 are concerned, so much has been said and discussed and discussed that it is up to you to decide one way or another. The government has proposed one option and another, and in the end, I ask that I do not have much to add here. Both options are both substantive and practical and theoretically possible. Each has its own good inadequacies. One must be decided. As far as the abolition of the national institution is concerned, we are proposing, as a proposal, that it simply be abolished and people and everything else transferred to the National Veterinary Institute, because we believe that this is a good solution. Nothing changes, neither in relation to laboratories nor in the accreditation procedures of the methods already under way, continue. The laboratory remains in the same place and in fact nothing special happens, except the case is rationalised and our assessment makes sense and shapes. How and where and how will the National Veterinary Institute be? The government has made a proposal. The National Assembly must decide one way or another. With arguments for and against that exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Given that you have not drawn up your proposal very clearly, given that the Committee has made its own statement, the government also has that all the conditions for decision-making are, in the third reading, there are no business reasons why this point should be interrupted. So Replica, Mr Weber, Mr Potsch and Mr Juban. [[...]] I'm sorry, but at first I realized it was Mr. Weber's replica. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	I have a replica of the implementation of Mr Minister in the part where he says all the variants we have before us are acceptable and feasible. In which article, in which paragraph of the proposed law we refer to the status of the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia. It's an institute that's currently in service in the Department of Veterinary Medicine. In this marriage, we haven't said a word about what's going to happen to the veterinary institute. However, we are establishing a new national veterinary institute and we will have two institutions. And this dictatorship, proposed by the government in the current amendment, speaks of the establishment of an independent organisational unit within the university. Which also means that we are interfering with the independence of the university, because we need the consent of the university to make such a decision. By explaining that only the National Assembly is the one who simply decides on one or the other option is not right. While I agree that procedural options are, we can go forward and that all the conditions are given, but I note that the decisions that Parliament will take today can have very serious consequences for whether we will have a properly organised or a Veterinary Institute of Slovenia or a national veterinary institute of Slovenia. They are both the top institutions in the veterinary field.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	I note that the debate has gone from within. This is not a whole discussion of the law, but of Article 57. However, I, excuse me, have warned you that the rules of procedure first discuss the proposal for a law in its entirety. I would like to remind you that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has prepared a consolidated text on your desk. He's ready for a review of the submitted amendments, two pieces to put it that way. And it is my duty as President to respect the rules of procedure and not to allow debate on individual amendments, but only at this very moment only on the debate on the law as a whole. And I'm asking you kindly if you'd mind my request. Please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	Just an explanation for this debate and also to facilitate your concern in dealing with the Rules of Procedure, which is quite right. The solutions under Article 57 also affect other articles, which is why I have highlighted this article as one which is completely inconclusive and the consequences then refer to other articles. And that is why, during this period, when we are talking about the law, I have fully highlighted this problem, because not only in this article, but also in others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Well, given the scope of the law, I think you are giving a little bit of attention to this article and that we still have to respect the rules of procedure and therefore I ask all those who have applied to the debate, yes, so I ask you whether you will be discussing the law in its entirety. Who wants to discuss the whole law? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	But Mr. Juban, I'm sorry, I don't know, but I am, please, Mr. Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	I'm pretty sure it's an important marriage. An important law because I am taught that, among other things, the whole veterinary activity also has one of its important objectives of ensuring human health. Of course, through animal health, besides reproduction, also ensuring human health. We have been successful enough in this regard in Slovenia so far, given the latest events in Europe, we can assess even more successfully, thank God, than Europe. I wish that the veterinary law we adopt would not make this situation worse, but would ensure that the performance of the veterinary profession in this area would be equally successful or even more successful. I am saying this because I am not sure that many of the changes and additions that have recently been adopted and first proposed, but later adopted in the National Assembly, have always been carefully thought out and that there has never been anything, because, in fact, because of the different aspects of the profession, due to the different political interests, due to the different emphasis on which of the functions to be performed by the veterinary profession as a whole, but also, of course, by the public veterinary service as a whole, have been highlighted more than others. Look, we passed the new Veterinary Act in 1994, and since then we've had five amendments and a supplement to this law. Among them, we changed the law twice, even in 1999, once again very soon, in the spring of 2000, each time with a different view of the profession and each time with a strong provision by the government, the district minister and also the Director of the Veterinary Administration of Slovenia, that that moment of the proposed solution was the right one, the best thing not to be the others, although in a month or two the explanations were different and we had to take other solutions at the suggestion of the same applicants. I hope I'm not being unfair, I don't want to be. But I fear that the differences in the perspectives in the profession that were then passed on to us absolutely, because we are also in one way or another connected with individuals working in this area that have led to very different views. The line on this law is not harmonised, that's bad. To me, since I had the opportunity to participate in one interview, and several times to speak with the chairman of the committee, it has always been said that it would never be harmonized, because the veterinarians are such that even if they were to write a law for 10 years, they would not harmonise. Maybe. But I would not only hope to believe this in advance, because different approaches and views are not only among the veterinarians, but also in the ministry and in the veterinary administration, which at various stages has explained different concepts, more or less, I will say vehemently and allow for different solutions. Therefore, I must say that I am sorry that we have not been able to prepare this law more quickly and in a more uniform manner, and I would like very much to stress that it would be right for the proponents to be aware of their responsibilities for its content in particular. For all the others, we could have been less involved. On many issues, solutions are such that we do not know how to solve them properly. We do not know what veterinary activity is, what should be done in the public service, what should be done by farmers or by domestic breeders. What should be done in this or other organisation of the public veterinary service is truly known only by the veterinarians. Because that's, I'd say, a distinct profession and others can't handle it. However, there are, of course, very many substantive issues in this area, as well as very many economic issues, very many views on current practice. Some, for example, also point out that there are some differences in practice between lawfulness or between regulations and actual practice, in the functioning of a wide range of requirements for the consistent functioning of public service, inspection and similar veterinarians to many breeders, not having access to many breeders for a year, two or three, as if they had only healthy animals, which is very difficult to predict. That things are known to the public, that they can also be used directly through such action antibiotics in a way that they should not be used, that there is a possibility of infection and business uncertainty, and that in one part we also come to the logic that has led to the problems they face today in Europe. In view of the fact that the economy, or vice versa, may not be an economy, but the possibility of doing business and as much income as possible is the only thing that must be saved in the veterinary field, not concern for human health. I would like to point out that we know that all solutions are good. I think a lot of them are bad. However, I speak for the reason that I would like to stress the responsibility that applicants should take when implementing the law or when, I fear, they come up with proposals for its amendments and additions in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In the framework of the full debate of the law, please. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that, in the course of the debates on the law, we can fully see that this is an area where four, five different interests exist within the same sector. And there's not a man in this country who would put these interests on the same denominator. As a result, these differences around the solutions incorporated in the bill were so, so often also violent and contradictory. We have before us a document that was created in second reading with over 100 amendments, of which two thirds were accepted, with which not everyone is satisfied again. I'll give you a solution now, let's say in Article 52, but I'm not talking about the article as such right now, just as an example, with regard to the conduct of certain activities of animal owners where we get a table of appeals, requests, threats, everything you want, for two completely different solutions. As an example, it is very difficult to get on the same denominator even the veterinary and interests of animal owners, which is logical in some way and, on the other hand, within the veterinary group, one and the other services, then the public service or services that work with public powers and so on. There is a document before us that points to other dilemmas that we will never be able to solve. However, we now have before us the law and review of the amendments tabled by the Government and some other qualified candidates. And most of these government amendments have been supported by the committee. And I think we should follow that. Personally, I may not be satisfied with the two solutions that the committee has, but in the parliamentary procedure it is just as it will be, and as it will happen, we will have a solution that will not be satisfied again, with which I may be happy. In the meantime, I see that there is still a solution to be drawn up to clarify matters that colleagues may also rightly speak about when it comes to a newly established veterinary institute, a national veterinary institute. And if this debate brings about the clarification that we will be talking about in the amendment to the article, I think that, after all, a document will give guidance also on the ongoing monitoring of the problems that colleagues have been talking about here today and their ongoing resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	Mr Zamernik is almost right that I did not want to advertise in this law, because I felt that there were still many people who knew each other and because they had been working on some issues for a long time and trying to resolve some of the dilemmas, but in the end I realized that there were at least two things to say. Firstly, the law must be adopted urgently and, as far as I am concerned, I will support the law, of course, so that at least two parts of the amendment are still needed, especially the text of the amendments, because the amendments are already ready. In some ways, it is almost impossible for an area to be governed in the same way as it has been regulated by the adoption of a third law in the last two years and that the third law is at the last moment still kind of, so to speak, cardinal differences in areas that are the result of bad legislation. Surely, since it would not be possible to identify certain basic things today, this morning just ahead of this agenda item, which really needs to be regulated. It is true that if the President reminds me that this debate may still relate to individual articles, but when I speak of the law as a whole, I cannot help but discern some of the shortcomings concerning individual articles, but they are essential. But they are essential and they can question my decision whether I vote in favour or against the law. As I said in the introduction, I will support the law, but I want some things to change, in particular as regards the establishment of a new national veterinary institute, because it must be clear that from now on under one cap, one organisational logic will be organised the entire veterinary control function in order to eliminate any possibility of duplication of some services in order to make this effective and, above all, not to cause problems to those who will need it. This is a stopover, from producers, breeders, to those who, as consumers, we perform in the food processing chain of animal origin on the one hand, and of course I am not talking about other services and needs that veterinarians as such perform and all institutions in this area. I would therefore still support the law by taking up certain changes at the time of the discussion in the individual articles, which will be on the table by then when we reach them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Kramberger, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will support this law along with the amendments proposed by the Government and adopted by the Committee. But I'd like to say this. I don't know if any law now has as much attention in this mandate as the veterinary law. We discussed the law at four Committee meetings, then coordinated in larger groups, sat and coordinated matters throughout the evening also within the framework of the coalition, and we are always on certain issues on two shores. Now, because I do not want to define myself to the members themselves, I must say that as a committee we have done everything in our power; also the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of our National Assembly has helped us - and here is the product. However, if some think that certain matters would be appropriate to be resolved differently, then amendments will have to be made and the National Assembly will decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	Mr Kramberger, the biggest bear service to this law and activity would themselves have done if some things had been speeded up and quickly accepted and taken ill. You convinced me twice that it was necessary to change the law, and we did. Now you have brought the law a third time, and this morning I am convinced of some things that I firmly believe are poorly regulated in marriage and amendments when it comes to establishing. But I do know that they can be very elegant and quickly removed. I suggest that, together with the secretariat - because I have seen above the bench that the secretariat agrees with these concerns - correct this and this law will also be under the roof. I am quite interested in this law being given on the agenda for two reasons. For the first time because it is a law that means some guarantees in the area that is very sensitive at that time - and this law is a guarantee that things will also work with us by addressing problems, causes, problems arising in the field of food control and in particular animals, breeding, slaughter and the like. On the other hand, of course, because I would like to make this - and this is another reason why I will still be married - so that this is given on the agenda and that the mistrust that you are trying to establish in some way, if, if you want others, I don't know what else, but then say it. I want nothing but that the law is properly prepared and that it can also be implemented in practice. In one part today, it turns out it's a problem. Let's get this over with, and let's adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you. The replica, I think, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	It's just a brief replica of my friend Anderlich. Some lawyers ensure that the dictatorship proposed by the government is acceptable; others say it is not acceptable. Some colleagues and fellow Members also attract some lawyers, others. Yeah, I can't, as president of the working body, I just have to follow the procedure first. And even now, Vice President, I also understand that he is doing this. And now, if we are to form another amendment, which will follow that the legal matter will stand, and also substantively, because we are talking about the 57th Article, to keep this as an organisational unit of the Faculty of University in Ljubljana, if this is a better dictatorship than it is here, I will gladly support it. And probably you, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. If I may, as far as the Veterinary Institute is concerned. In fact, nothing's gonna happen to an existing veterinary institute because it's gone. Since the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine created a special organisational unit based on the 1994 Act or published in 1995 and the legal person, the Veterinary Institute never existed. This means that, of course, nothing special will happen to this veterinary institute. That means, on the basis of the new law, a new matter will be formed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Minister, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	The legal person has never been like a veterinary institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Do you mind? That way we won't be able to hold a debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	Other matters [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Mr. Secretary, can you hear me? I ask you to be fully in your debate at the level of the law, because immediately after this we come to the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	I'm just summarising the discussions as they were. The legislator tried to take into account the numerous comments made in the National Assembly. He also took these comments into account to a large extent where possible. So there's just a document before you that's just like it is, and I think there's been a lot of work, a lot of energy, a lot of coordination, as much as there is for any other law, and I suggest that it be dealt with. Just for information. In 2000, the Veterinary Act was not amended. The Veterinary Act was amended in 1999 and was made clear in public in this national assembly that it is changing where necessary during the emergency due to the problem of red meat at the time. And it was clearly said that it was an incomplete, comprehensive solution that only solved one of the segments. On the basis of this, the law was not amended in 2000. However, some other laws that indirectly touch veterinary legislation have been amended and, therefore, since 1995 and 1994 for the first time, 1996 for the second time, 1999 for the third time because of an inflexible solution that was clearly explained in this national council, the legislation is being amended again now. We hope it's complex enough and comprehensive enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	I would just like to supplement the Minister's remarks. I said in the last two years, not in 2000. Otherwise, if you look at your law, which you wrote, it says that the last amendment to the Veterinary Act was published in number 8 of the Official Gazette in 2000. That's your law. Mr. Secretary, I just told you. But apparently it's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Mr. Weber and then Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	I have a replica of Mr Minister, just in that sense, when he realized that nothing would happen to the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia. With this law, of course, we will establish a new national veterinary institute and we will have two institutes. That's what I'm warning you about. However, if we try to interfere with the university area through the Veteran Act, because we write in this law to establish a separate organisational unit, we are interfering with other regulations, and we do not have the appropriate agreement to do so. Finally, he warned the secretariat and perhaps also a replica to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kramberger. Of course, the secretariat gave its opinion and kept alert to these shortcomings in the law. And these shortcomings have not yet been addressed to the extent that the law is also enforceable, especially in paragraph 57. But if we are talking about the law as a whole, of course, this will also reflect veterinary activity as a whole and this is very, very important if this institution is not properly organised. So that I cannot agree with the fact that all the solutions in this law are feasible, acceptable and we should just accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In 2000, the Veterinary Act was not amended, but the Law on Administrative Fees was amended, which also affected the Veterinary Act by deleting certain articles, which is why it is also mentioned in the text because it must be so. However, while it will be very much, I do not think I know whether there is a meaningful debate under Article 57. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. In the context of the general debate or debate on the law, I fully note that there is no further discussion. Since there is no more debate, we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. For the third reading, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has prepared a consolidated text. Colleagues and colleagues, it's two pieces. I just want to warn you that we're gonna get along just fine. One is from April 12th, and the review of the amendments tabled and the other is only one paper, namely the SLS+SKD Group of Members with the first signed Mr. Francie Rokavac. It's a single amendment. But I'm sorry, but he just got removed in writing. I didn't get this before, so we only have one piece of material, one piece of material, and we're going to start a discussion about it, so after the amendments as usual. I am putting amendments to the debate in Article 3. Those amendments are six. So we are discussing all six amendments to Article 3. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on individual amendments to Article 3. We vote on the amendment to Article 3 under order number 1. Let's vote, please! Of the 65 present 36 voted in favour, two opposed. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please! Of the 66 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote, please! Of the 68 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote on the fourth amendment. Let's vote! Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Since I have withdrawn the amendment of the Group of Members as the first signed, I must say that I will support the two amendments of the Committee, which make the concept of the plant more clearly defined than the buildings and premises where food and products, raw materials and waste are processed or processed. In this regard, however, there is also a linkage between the amendment under order number 6, which solves the solution so far adopted in the second amendment, which has been somehow corrected by the Government. The committee found that the new 51st and 52nd points were better, so I will also support the amendment under order number 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Rokavec; I apologize for the speed. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] I warn you - otherwise you have a note written down, but yet - at the fourth amendment, if the fourth amendment is adopted, the fifth amendment will be irrelevant. So much for that. Can we get to the vote on the fourth amendment? [[Yes, you can.]] Let's vote, please! Let's vote please. We're voting. Of the 69 present, 44 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the 4th Amendment has been adopted as we said before, the 5th Amendment is irrelevant and we do not vote on it. And we're moving on to the 6th Amendment vote. Let's vote, please. We're voting. Of the 69 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the 6th Amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We're moving on to Section 4. There is only one amendment under Article 4. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. I take it you don't want to discuss this amendment. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 4. Let's vote please. Let's vote. Of the 69 present, 23 voted in favour, up to 14. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 8. At Article 8, we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mrs. Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the second reading, I proposed to the National Assembly that a decision should be adopted, which is not in the right order even with the Rules of Procedure, only with a view to taking into account the perceived duality of administrative procedures for determining the conditions for individual economic companies and independent entrepreneurs carrying out activities in establishments under veterinary supervision. Despite their withdrawal, ministries and services met within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and within the framework of the Anti-Burocratic Programme Service and prepared the supplement that is before us. That is, a decision issued by the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia for an establishment under veterinary supervision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Excuse me. Colleagues and colleagues, please! It'll be lunch in half an hour. Let's just calm down a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. That the decision issued by the veterinary administration to comply with the conditions of this establishment, which is under veterinary supervision, is that the establishment fulfils the conditions regarding premises, personnel and equipment, that it is the sole and rescue and enables the entrepreneur, whether it is an economic company or a craftsman, to carry out activities on the market.The procedure that we are. The administrative procedure for entrepreneurs and businesses, which is in this special law, in the Veterinary Act for such establishments, is also comparable to European procedures and does not result in additional red tape by setting up additional committees that determine the conditions for establishments and, on the other hand, the veterinary administration, which is professionally solely qualified, given that it is the establishments for which we also have an interest in consumers to operate in such a way that our consumer benefits are secured, that we will, by impeding us to close this amendment to the government that has been drafted on our initiative, establish such a definition of the conditions that will not bring additional bureaucratic obstacles. I also assess that, in the preparation of other specific laws in the government, regulations that would not create additional bureaucratic barriers could also be drawn up with appropriate coordination. This law repeals them by adopting this amendment to this Article in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? No one else. We can conclude the debate on this amendment by Article 8. Thank you. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Of the 70 present, 42 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment to Article 23 is in turn. We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 70 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 29. There's an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote on the amendment to Article 29. Let's vote please. Of the 70 present, 49 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 29 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 47. We have an amendment here, too. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 70 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 49. We have an amendment here. It is essentially the title and text of Article 49 in its entirety. Who wants to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] Can we close the debate? [[Yes, you can.]] We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 71 present, 53 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 49, or the amendment, has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 52. Here I would like to remind you that there are six amendments and that I am putting all six amendments to the debate. So, amendments to Article 52 - who wants a word? Mrs. Possonchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. This is about activities that, in my opinion, should only be awarded to the Veterinary Chamber. It is not logical for such general veterinary work to be granted through concessions. So that you would remain within the veterinary chamber as yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. It must say that in the second reading to date, I have not changed my opinion on paragraphs 6 and 7 which we added last to paragraphs 52. Now I see here that the government is advocating that these two paragraphs be deleted. I do not think there is any danger that private breeders will compete in any way with the veterinarians and the veterinary service and that it is very wise to retain these two paragraphs. I hope that the proposaler who proposed this in the previous debate will not now vote against or withdraw what he proposed. In fact, I think this is necessary, because if we delete this, then we will burden the breeders too much and we will show absolute mistrust for the breeders, as if they could not be friendly to their livestock or that they could not do anything about their livestock. I am surprised by such a government proposal here and let me continue to say that it is not a living thing, that there is already a huge cost of production, which is now taking place under these conditions, when these diseases occur, on the shoulders of the breeders. Let me tell you a case. Otherwise it is necessary to count the traceability of the animals. It was during these holidays that I witnessed when breeds over the holidays numbered already heavy bulls, which are 800 kg heavy, which cannot be sold. It's a pain in the ass. Nobody pays for that. Maybe even someone else is "cashing it" because they only bring them numbers. However, what they can do for themselves does not have to be paid for not letting them and not trusting them, and that is not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr Kramberger and Mr Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would object to these statements, which my colleague Jerovšek has just said, purely from a professional point of view. In fact, that's not true. We're talking about veterinary activity. Veterinary activities can be carried out or carried out by veterinarians or veterinary doctors, unfortunately or fortunately. I believe that this amendment proposed by the Government, paragraphs 6 and 7, is deleted, that we have to confirm or accept this purely from a professional point of view. In the debate on the Committee, however, we have adopted an amendment by the New Slovenia Group, in which certain procedures are specified, which, of course, breeders can do themselves on their own animals when they are properly modernised, which will be prescribed by a sub-legislative act. I think this thing is acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am speaking out for the various differences and perceptions of this solution, which is set out in Article 52. Indeed, this was my amendment, which was approved by the Committee and then by the National Assembly, which was created in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Articles 52. In no way do we accept the perceptions that this time animal owners will do anything that veterinarians should do. That's not true. If we read the consistent text of the 6th point where it says "veterinary activities for which there is no need for public authority, the holder or the employee may perform on his animals, if he has adequate education..." and so on. I defended this solution in the second reading solely because it says that the holder has an adequate education under the conditions laid down by the Minister. It is a farm company or, according to domestic say, farms that have employed veterinarians, or perhaps some cases in Slovenia that can be listed on the fingers, if the veterinarians are animal holders at the same time and then under conditions prescribed by the Minister, they can do some work that would probably be recorded in the case of certain diseases as well as in all other veterinarians. This time, of course, is the reverse solution in this proposal, where the government has proposed that this solution be deleted in Articles 52 - 6 and 7 because this time the Committee has confirmed the deletion. I will, of course, oppose this solution in spite of all the Committee's position, because I support all other solutions this time, because I am assessing that this observation has not been put in place and that this would not affect the field of work that a veterinarian has to do exclusively, but that we are giving the opportunity only to the veterinarians where this education is needed, to be employed in companies that have animals, or to own animals themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Replica, if I'm not mistaken, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I fully understand my colleague Kramberger to defend the veterinary status in this matter, because it is also his profession and he is in some way a representative of this character in this National Assembly. Although Ivek and I have different views on agriculture and so on, we generally agree, but I understand that this time the interest of the veterinary profession has also gone to him over the interests of the farm and the breeders. I am joining Mr Juban here because there is no need to delete this, because it is clearly written here, for those matters for which there is no need for public authority and veterinary assistance. Dictation is quite appropriate, and there is also a guardian in this law. I have to say what I've already said, including the veterinary feature, like everyone else, looks excessively at earnings sometimes. There's a ravine in this chain, a farmer's weak spot. It's what everyone's after, and it's not protected in any way. The other thing is, they come from such professional circles a lot of times, which I'm going to say doesn't make sense. Years ago, veterinary inspections required that farms, as people say here, build a two-story cliff of huge dimensions. That's the crazy cost of an investment. I know a lot of breeders who did this, but from the age of 30, there hasn't been a drop of water coming from these hot farms, because it's technically impossible because it's on the floor of the floor that blocks every drain like that. But it's nonsense! You must also allow him to work with common sense, so that some things are judged significantly better by the breeders than by the vets, because they are every day in that yard, every day in that barn. Once again, I support this proposal, despite the fact that some will call me a Eurosceptic, as I did last week, even though I was not even a candidate for this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Mr Kramberger, please, a replica, I guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Without a doubt, veterinary services are an important item in agricultural production. But I do hope we can't save them in this way. I would like to say that - we are also dealing with agriculture - from a professional point of view, Comrade Jože, I cannot defend this because the interest of that manufacturer is quite different from that of the veterinarian. It's not working. The one with the concession, the one with the work permit, if I say so, the one bound by the code has a different approach to this work. If you have a farm and an employed veterinarian and you pay for it, no one's gonna convince me that he's not gonna look at it any different than the other guy coming from the outside. In this law we have also on the committee itself, and the government has supported, designed or proposed this so-called user council. Some oppose this, but I think that this world of users can be a consultative body that, in some agreement with the Chamber, can save these price curves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In terms of veterinary activity, we believe it is good that, however, it remains as proposed, even with the deletion of the Government's amendment, because we believe that this does not affect certain activities that have been listed here today, for example, which should not have been carried out by other operators, for example, animal labelling, in any way. It is stated here that this may also be a veterinary activity, but at the same time the labelling of animals in other laws is also referred to as the activity of other professions. This means that in particular, for example, animal labelling is in the legal order of the EU very clearly defined: the only one responsible for animal labelling is breeder. It means that it is one who marks the animal himself, but if he thinks that he is incapable of doing it himself, unable to do it or believes that he cannot do it professionally enough, he can empower the one who can do it. This has already been regulated in sub-laws. And, for example, veterinarians and agricultural selection services, for example, can provide this service if, of course, the breeder so decides. This does not mean that deleting it means that, for example, a grower should not do so. It's about animal treatment, if that's how we understand it from our side. This is defined in Article 42 of the Explanatory Note, Section 3, where it is indicated that there is also a veterinary assistant who can also carry out certain activities under the supervision of the veterinarian and which are the subject of animal treatment. In fact, once again, this is not about activities that simply a farmer should not do, e.g. as animal labelling. It is already clearly defined there that this is an activity that is exclusively the responsibility of the breeder, but which can decide to grant implementation to someone else, for example. to the veterinarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	I support the deletion of paragraphs 6 and 7. Also because the profession warns that this was also one of the causes in Europe, that these problems have arisen today with foot-and-mouth disease. It seems to me that during this period we need to pay very close attention to this issue, and despite this good will and, of course, to all understanding that the holder of animals has, of course, a good attitude towards their animals, this certainly is true. But what if this relationship is sometimes, I'm going to say, too good in the sense that I don't know, you're not going to try to put some weight on drugs and stuff. Of course, the consequences can be fatal for other breeds who do not have the option. This damage is then transferred to the country, as the consequences that we are accompanying today are extremely severe for the entire economy, including other sectors, not only for livestock. If this deletion reduces this possibility, I think that this is one of the major contributions of this law to the more supervised and quality management of veterinary activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Weber's arguments that such powers or the possibility that some things could have been done by the breeders themselves, that this is the cause of the current outbreak of diseases which are two large-scale in Europe, do not seem to me to be serious. To these diseases and to all this greed for money is more by bureaucracy and state administration and then breeders, because they were not recognised for certain costs, went to the price of the organization through the feeding of these waste animal proteins. Let's not say that now the breeders will be blamed for the outbreak of the disease. They may have abandoned some activity that was better, but if we trust the breeders, we will no longer have a disease. Be aware of that. However, we must be so aware that at least in Slovenia the breeders are extremely careful and do more than if they had a patronage service at their disposal, but from the country it would be prescribed and paid for by that patronage service in, what I know, with the birth of animals and all that. Let's trust the breeders and not get into foster care in such a way that, practically for every move, we can bring them into the house or into the barn, I'll say, the bureaucrat. A lot of these activities are bureaucratic and have nothing to do with veterinary medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendments to Article 52. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. We're voting. Of the 65 present, 10 Members and Members voted against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 52 has not been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote please. We're voting. Of the 66 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at the third amendment now. Here I would like to warn you that if we accept this amendment, then we do not have to vote on the amendments under order numbers 4 and 5. So we're voting on an amendment under order number three. Let's vote, please. We're voting. Of the 66 present, 35 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. Since it is adopted, we are not voting on the fourth and fifth amendments, but we are at the sixth. So we're at the sixth amendment. We vote, please, on the sixth amendment, on page 5. We're voting. Of the 66 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to paragraph 53, where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 66 present, 46 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 53 has been adopted. Given the fact that there are two more minutes until 1300 hours and before us Article 57, it seems to me that it would make sense for us to continue our work at 2.30 p.m. In doing so, I would like to remind you that we will continue with Article 57. After this law, the Veterinary Act, we continue with the third point that we have previously missed. So, we move on at 2.30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Dear fellow Members and Members! Please put your cards in, so we can figure this out! There are 67 Members and Members present. We can proceed with the meeting. They also apologized for the continuation of the Andrej Fabjan meeting for the afternoon part of the session, Aloyz Sok, Roman Jakič from 4 p.m. on and Anton Partljič. I take it we're done and we can move on with our work. We're considering a proposal for a veterinary law. As you recall from this morning's work, we're in 57. We have three amendments and an amendment to the amendment. Does anyone want to discuss all these matters? Please, Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Procedurally, it would probably suggest determining the order of voting. In my opinion, if it is possible to establish that this amendment, which is not under review, is an amendment from three parliamentary groups, far enough away from us to decide on it, and at the same time, of course, we must decide on the amendment of Ambassador Maria Pozsonec, who is actually correcting errors in correspondence. If you look at the adopted word in the second reading, where the areas of work carried out by the National Veterinary Institute are listed, by mistake, points 23 and 28 are omitted and then returned with the amendment by Mrs Possonec. My proposal is a more procedural one to vote first on this amendment to Mrs Possonec, then on the proposal of the amendment of the three groups of Members, of course then the amendments are irrelevant and, at the same time, to end the little few weeks of torment that we have had with this Article 57. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My intention was the same as you suggested. Are there any other questions? Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'm putting to the vote an amendment to the Marie Possonec amendment. You got it as a special treat. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. Forty-three, protégé. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the vote of the amendment to Article 57 of the three parliamentary groups. You got the material in writing. We're voting. There's 71 present. The vote was 44, 2 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 102 because it is linked. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There's 69, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. In this way, the amendments in the material, which we have also received in writing, are irrelevant. We're moving on to paragraph 58. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Because he does not want to, I conclude the debate and we vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 58. There are 69 Members and Members present. Nine, 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment was not accepted. Let's vote on the second amendment. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 4 to 44. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment was not accepted. We're moving on to Article 67. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're going to 72.A. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. 72 Members and Members are present. The vote was 13, 48 against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment was not accepted. At article 82, we have five amendments. Anybody want to talk? Please, Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you. If the first amendment is adopted, then it is not possible to take into account the amendments that we have given to the group of Members, since this is the second paragraph of Article 82, which speaks originally: "... the Director of the VURSA Regional Office may be an official veterinarian with a Master of Veterinary Sciences." Only this one would be appointed leader or director. In the first amendment that I withdrew, we wrote that it is at least a master's degree, so also Dr. Veterinary Science can be a director. However, we have withdrawn this and therefore I ask you to support the amendment you have on the table that the Director of the VURSA Regional Office may be an official veterinarian with an expert examination. I think that's better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I've changed my mind. The amendment's not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. So we're voting on the first amendment. 71 Members and Members are present. Twenty-two, thirty-five. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment was not accepted. We will vote on the amendment under number 2, which has been amended. Anybody want to discuss something? We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm sorry, you stopped by in the middle of the vote. Just give me a moment to figure out the result of the vote. 8 was in, 48 versus, 41 versus. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment was not accepted. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Is the Possonian going to withdraw hers? [[No, no, ……]] Under number 2, the third paragraph is deleted. Have we voted now or what have we voted on?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	We voted on your revised amendment, under number two, which you replaced with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	I was seduced. I thought we were voting under number two. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	One moment, one moment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	I suggest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u119	One moment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	I propose that the vote be repeated and that it be stated exactly what amendment it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	I will, of course, put to the vote if we repeat this vote. Maybe I was pretty indistinguishable. So we vote, but we repeat the vote. 71 present, 40 to 16. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 16.]] We will repeat the vote. I reiterate, we are voting on amendment number 2 in the supplementary annex that we have received today. The proposer is Mario Gasparini, a group of Members. Mario Gasparini, I say goodbye. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 73 Members and Members present. 34 for, 20 for. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 20.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the third amendment. An emissary group of Hungarian nationalities. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 7 for, 12 for. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. Emissary group of the Hungarian National Community. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 13 for, 47 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on the fifth amendment. Emissary group of the Hungarian National Community. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 13 for, 41 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have a section 94 and an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 53 for, against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have read paragraphs 101 and three amendments and another amendment, which we have received in writing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will vote first on the amendment, which was sent in writing, the LDS Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party of the SKD, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 41, for 8. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the first amendment in the amendment review. We're voting. 72 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 70 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the third amendment. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 to 38. [[The vote was nine. (against 38.)]] The amendment was not accepted. Please, Procedural Caucasus.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. With regard to Article 101, I would like to draw attention to another nonconsistency in the text, in paragraph 5, where it states that he carries out "veterinary activities and administrative tasks" by means of an expert examination. I think that the text would be more consistent if only "veterinary activities" were to be written here, because this concept covers administrative tasks under the law. I therefore orally propose an amendment to delete the text of "and administrative tasks" referred to in paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	Representatives of the Secretariat, please. Otherwise, the debate was closed. Of course, the amendments are no longer possible to invest. We vote on the amendment to Article 102. We have an amendment. I'm sorry, I haven't put it to the debate yet. Of course, we have to be a little more precise, the 101st article is, of course, finished, closed in some way, the amendments are no longer possible to invest. We're moving on to Rule 102. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting on the amendment. We have already voted on one; of course, we are now voting on where there will be a collection of amendments tabled in the material. In Article 102, the words 'and the Veterinary Institute of Slovenia' are deleted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 6 for, 40 for. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the secretariats for legislation and legal matters if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law has been violated? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	Mr. Vice President. The Secretariat shall seek some time to examine the situation relating to the last vote and the warning given by the Member in relation to Article 101, paragraph 5. We need half an hour to one hour so that we can then give an oral or even written notice of the state of compliance of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We interrupt this agenda item. When the Secretariat prepares its material, we will proceed with the point. As agreed, we're moving on to [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose that, during this interim period, we begin by addressing item 5 (d), this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	We heard a proposal. I'm putting him to the vote. Let's just make ourselves clear whether we're up for it or not. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 34, for 23. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Please prepare material for item 5.D - PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT LAW ON THE HEALTH OF INfertility AND PROCESSING OF ARTICULATION WITH BIOMEDICIARY AID, HITRI PROCEDURE, Jelko Kacin and Flower Zalokar Orzam. We're moving to first reading. He wants a representative of the bill's proponents to take the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Flower Orazem or Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Following the adoption of the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Fertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance last year, the area of infertility treatment was not fully regulated. That is why we LDS members tabled amendments to the law in autumn 2000 to address some of the most pressing shortcomings. The new law proposed follows the principle of equal accessibility and the rights to artificial fertilisation procedures. Increased infertility is a consequence of our modern way of life, so artificial fertilization could be described as a necessary civilizational acquisition. The pressures of the infertile are great and worthy of all attention, so they need to be helped. Although the treatment of infertility concerns only a small number of people, it is even more important than the indicator of social care for all citizens. The new law follows the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides in Article 55 that the decision on the birth of children is free, that the State provides opportunities for the exercise of this freedom and creates conditions that enable parents to decide on the birth of their children. A fundamental human right to decide on the birth of his children means that a person chooses voluntarily whether to have children, when to have them, and how to have them. This constitutional right also stems from the rights of all women, irrespective of their legal social status, i.e. single women to prevent pregnancy, the right to artificial abortion and the right to identify and treat reduced fertility. Otherwise, the right to medical assistance in the treatment of infertility, as well as artificial fertilization, regardless of medical indication of fertility or infertility, had all women from 1977 until last year. In article 34, the old law classified all full-year, judicious and healthy women as eligible for birth as beneficiaries of artificial fertilisation. In the last 20 years, at least 50 single women have been artificially fertilized according to known data. According to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Health, in 1998 out of 129 cases reported, 18 were artificially fertilized. With the proposed amendment of the law, we would like to point out that the law, as proponents of the LDS, completely rejected the procedures for artificial fertilisation by means of biomedical aid after its adoption, thereby reopening and defending the rights of single women or women without a partner, i.e. fertile to artificial fertilisation. We wanted to encourage a critical dialogue that would allow consensus and agreement on a comprehensive regulation of this issue. Immediately after the elections, we prepared definitive amendments to the law, attracted both the professional public, the coalition partners and together with the government and Minister Kebro to the final solution, which is before you in the form of amendments to the government, which will enable all women to treat infertility and at the same time encourage appropriate control and which will prevent possible abuses of the genetically disputed commercialisation of this area. The fruit of this dialogue and the consensus reached are the amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a legal basis for fertilisation with biomedical assistance to all women. Treatment of infertility, except in exceptional circumstances, cannot be denied to anyone. Moreover, in exceptional cases, we recognise the right to fertilisation by means of biomedical aid, including a woman who has normal reproductive abilities and can conceive and give birth to a healthy child by natural means, whether married or living in an extramarital community or living alone. In the light of the proposed amendments, the eligibility of these procedures in such cases should be determined by the OBMP Commission. The amendments also amend the composition of the OBMP Commission, previously appointed by the State Commission - as it has been shown that the Commission does not fulfil the purpose of an independent, professional advisory body and does not carry out the tasks conferred on it by law because of conflicts of interest. The proposed amendment seeks to define the expertise and impartiality of the Commission. Interests of beneficiaries and beneficiaries of the OBMP procedures removed from the Commission will thus be further elaborated through a representative of the Office of Human Rights. The proposed amendments also provide a legal basis for the import of sex cells, which is urgently needed. It turns out that so many donors would be needed to carry out OBMP procedures for already-declared patients, not only for future patients, cannot be obtained in Slovenia. At least not in the way the law is now in force. If we give just one of the reasons. Statistically speaking, only one sexual cell is used by three sex cell donors, which, of course, increases the cost of donated sex cells in such a small volume of OBMP procedures. Infertility for an individual means one of the hardest and the greatest pressures of life. Data indicate that the number of infertile couples is increasing. In the developed world, we can say that there are about 10% of individuals. Infertile patients cannot wait long, as age is an extremely important factor in this regard in women. Most of our patients are between 30 and 35 years of age. However, a certain group is also about 38, 39 years old and their potential for pregnancy or pregnancy is already very questionable. Because people usually think that eggs and seeds bring babies. But in humans, nature can be more deceptive than anywhere else. The birth of a child in the majority of patients occurs only after three attempts to treat with OBMP procedures, while some are forced to do so after more than ten attempts, with time running relentlessly as each procedure is linked to the cycle and the insurance undertaking covers one procedure per year. Therefore, they need to be given an opportunity outside of human fertilisation as soon as possible. And this is also the argument, which is why and by which we justify the speedy procedure and in which some controversy is also opened in public, why the speedy procedure. Not only has the law in force limited the rights of single women or women without a partner to the treatment of infertility, but it has proved that it does not regulate satisfactorily all other areas or in some cases even prevents the treatment of infertility. The law in force has excluded couples from OBMP procedures where you are both infertile partners. According to expert data, one in four pairs has problems with such infertility. Many couples are therefore deprived of treatment and must seek help abroad, where treatment procedures are much more expensive. That is why the need to adopt the new law is so much greater. On behalf of the patients, I ask you to support changes in the law. I would also like to ask you to avoid any stigmatisation of these people in the debate, as well as a sharp political dialogue. The intention of the proponents is by no means exaggerated by the politicization of the question, whether the division of advocates or opponents of this law into the dark, and on the other hand, into advanced political forces. But our sole purpose is to alleviate the distress of those affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and all of you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members. First, the next one. It seems a little incorrect to change the agenda that way, because at every point of the agenda, all the support available to each point in the National Assembly is ultimately linked, but it is good if one considers that most or a quantity of quality is also available to do so. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities discussed the proposal of the proposed Act at its 5th extraordinary session, held in 21.3 this year. The draft law was submitted to the legislative procedure for the National Assembly by a group of Members, or by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Mr Jelko Kacin. In addition to the basic material, members of the Committee were also provided with a number of additional materials, both by the Secretariat and the Ministry of Health, in particular the Commission for Infertility with Biomedical Assistance, the Ethics Commission with the Ministry, and the comments of the Association for Greater Fertility and Fertility of Slovenians, Comments, Family Initiatives and so on. The introductory explanation of the bill's proposal was given by Mrs Orzmov in very or quite the same content as you heard earlier and would therefore not repeat it. The members of the Committee received a written opinion from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters presented at the meeting of the Committee by Ms Tina Bitenc Pengov. She gave an oral summary of the additional opinion on the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She pointed out that it was questionable whether the proposal for the adoption of a law following a rapid procedure was duly justified in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Further warnings related to the fact that children born in the proposed cases will be born without the legal consequences of paternity, including property legal effects. Another important fact that opens up on these issues is the situation of a man, in particular the case of an infertile male and an infertile male male. The specific comments and comments of the secretariat referred to paragraphs 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11 of the draft law, and in particular to the uncoordinated criminal provisions. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Professor Dusan Keber gave an opinion on the draft law. He stressed, among other things, that the public debate had shown that the solutions in the adopted law were too restrictive and non-lifelike and that the coalition partners had agreed to adopt and supplement the law. I'm sure the government representative will explain more on his own, so I wouldn't repeat it. In addition to the members of the Committee of the National Labour Council, family, health care, social policy and disabled persons, representatives of the interested public and institutions, which are also directly concerned by this law, were also involved in a broad debate, which was very controversial. The members of the committee, the members of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia pointed out that the proposed amendment of the law from a legal, substantive and ethical point of view was not suitable for consideration, nor at all through a rapid procedure. It will happen that we will have children of citizens who have different rights, so they thought. The bill seeks to legitimize practices that are not desirable. The Constitution says that freedom of one can be limited only by the freedom or right of another. Such a born child does not have a father and does not have a whole range of rights that other children have. This law also establishes a kind of commercialisation in this area, which means exploiting the pressures of some people to create profits. History shows or is known where such commercialization of medicine can lead to political support. It is unacceptable for such a sensitive area as children and their rights to be decided on by a political key, without the cooperation and consent of the profession. The members of the committee of the SNS Group of Members stressed or stressed that they did not support the rapid process of problems. In this regard, they do not look at the party as party and political, but they have the interest of Slovenia and the Slovenes at the forefront. The solutions offered by the amendment to the law are in his opinion for women who should be treated by psychiatric clinics because healthy women would like to have children, but basically they hate men. If such a woman raises a male progeny, there will be a mental disorder in both the female and the son. It is not correct to open up the market in this direction in order to commercialise such an important medical field. Of this, it is only a step further to cloning and horror that await us in the future. This was, of course, the position of the Group of Members on the Committee of the Slovenian National Party. However, members of the Committee of the Liberal Democracy Group advocated the view that the United Nations Convention does not explicitly mention the status of parents anywhere, nor does it say what kind of parents they should be. They pointed to the fact that the dilemmas that are being opened are essentially insurmountable because they are so different. It is by legalising all procedures, methods and options, including in the framework of compulsory health insurance, that they want to regulate the area, give choices to all both infertile couples and single women. Following the discussion, members of the Committee then addressed individual articles of the draft law and identified themselves to the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The members of the Committee thus supported all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First to the title, and then to the 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 10 articles of the bill and in these amendments, the law thus received an entirely new content for a lot more acceptable than the content with which the applicants came into the procedure. The Committee adopted its amendments, drafted and adopted: Article 1 of the amendment to the Government's amendment. Then for a new paragraph 1.b. Article 3 of the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 3. For a new Article 6a, Article 3. Article 7 of the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 7. Article 8 of the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 8 and to Article 10a of the new Article, to Article 10b and to Article 11 of the amendment. In this regard, let me explain that the Committee, with its amendments or amendments to the amendment, has also resolved certain objections and opinions of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, as well as certain editorial needs that the amendments tabled by the Government have called for. Following the conclusion of the debate on the draft law, the Committee adopted the following decision: the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance be considered and adopted together with amendments supported by the Committee. Amendments to the amendments of the government and amendments of the committee by rapid procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Keber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	Dear Members and Members! There is a change in the law before you, which, according to my opinion, has created a well-deserved debate in the public eye. Not because of the scale, the number of people to whom it relates, but because of some of the fundamental issues which it raised and where opponents and advocates of this proposal have justifiably advertised. I would like to say that both sides, if I call them potentially, have contributed to the fact that before you there is a motion that is being challenged, which is careful, which opens the right to a closed door, which allows time to answer some fundamental questions and which does not take the rights of anyone to whom this right belongs. In this regard, I would say that I respect and strongly agree with those reasoned arguments. Potentially speaking, the opposite opinion, which expressed concern that such fundamental decisions could also lead to abuse or inappropriate interpretations. There are still cases like this ahead of us. I think there will be more in the future when we have to make this decision. It is clear that on such fundamental issues they are asked, then they stick to it, I will say, incompetent or otherwise, I will say, unserious advocates or opponents. It is clear that such arguments on one side or on the other are then used to further aggravate the basic communication of such a proposal. You're more like me than you are, at least the ones with longer internships are aware that that's the way it is. I would mention some of the fundamental dilemmas that this law and these changes to the law have and are also, in some way, at least temporarily answered. First of all, what is health? Health by definition of the World Health Organisation is not just the absence of the disease. So it's not just about treating infertility. In fact, it is a question of whether there is a need to solve the sociological, psychological, and other problems that each of us has, even when we are experiencing another disease, or is prone to a disease because of these problems. In this case, we have been a competent witness, and in some cases, in my opinion, a narrow discussion that health is really a disease and that the profession is merely the treatment of the disease. I think it just turned out that, despite the fact that the remaining dilemma was open, there cannot be one profession in this society alone on such issues that would be competent, without calling out and on behalf of everyone else to answer the question of what is right and what is wrong. This is a fundamental broader question and ultimately the right place to answer such questions is Parliament. The other thing that emerged in the debate is: Is a couple or a single person in some way so stigmatized for their future child that we can prevent them from having a child in advance? At the level of statistics - although there are different studies in this society that have proved both - I would nevertheless like to claim as a sane individual that a child with one parent and statistically less opportunities, any economic and all other, as a child with two parents. However, it is not a question of whether the possibilities are really smaller or not, but whether this is so much an obstacle that by law we can decree that such single - parent children cannot be. The third question that has arisen and is very substantive and also answered in both camps in two ways is: Are we not playing here with a future child and creating a compensation for the frustration of individual single women? Here, however, I think that it is also difficult for advocates to think that a child must have both parents to make one point of objectifying him in this case. Indeed, a person is so subjective that he is capable of a variety of circumstances, that with his own will and with his own subjectivity possible some, I repeat, of possible problems in his environment to upgrade and grow into a competent person. We have endless evidence of this, after all, of studies which in fact show that children in single-parent laws do not have significantly different final opportunities and success in society. Or I will say, something that could be called "luck in life" as well as children from two-parent laws, and after all, that neither the identification with the mother, identification with the father, as a prerequisite for complete development, is replaced or exists in children other identifications that are well known. For example, one information is that 60% of children are identified with other idols around them, not with their fathers. In the end, of course, there is a clear situation that opponents, if I may call them, - these definitions in the law have every reason to continue to express concern and remain in their position. This is not a question of whether we can convince each other, but whether we can commit, even through the law, as it is written, that what some believe may happen will not happen. For example: abuse of law, commercialisation of procedures and so on. Take this latter - commercialisation of the procedure which must be adopted by a competent committee composed of a doctor, ethics, psychologist, sociologist and representative of the ombudsman. In short, one competent group of people will decide on the scope of this activity. The other thing is, the performers are doctors. After all, doctors may question themselves, or all others may question doctors in order to commercialise it. I just can't find it when I'm looking for arguments that could lead to commercialisation. And commercialization, after all, is also some quantity, as I understand it for the economy, some number, some price, some value. I can't find an argument or I think this law has taken care of the appropriate fuses, so that it can't happen or that it can be seen if this happens. Even more, I could say that the control system, as defined in these amendments to the law, is better than in the existing law. He excluded from the Commission any possible interests on the one hand of the operators, since the previous law included representatives of each centre which carried out them as members of the Commission. This means that he introduced some kind of mutual competition or conflict of interest. On the other hand, he also introduced representatives. Representatives of those who want to have this procedure. We have eliminated this and left it entirely to the profession. And also in all other procedures that do not take place before the Commission - T means that a large majority of the procedures do not take place before the Commission - we have introduced the so-called second opinion "second opinion", for each such opinion there must be another doctor who confirms the decision of the basic doctor, on a medical assessment, not on the assessment of the eligibility of the procedure, but on whether other options are exhausted. Because we need to be aware of the need to exhaust all treatment options that are very large today. It will probably be necessary for a couple or an infertile person to reach a child by means of a biomedical procedure. Finally, I think that with due respect, taking into account the scepticism of those who think otherwise, I think that before you the proposal, which is in fact to repeat for my predecessors, has significantly changed the initial proposal from a few months ago, from the previous year. I think that it allows the Commission, too, to create its own view and that it will be in public view and that the decisions of this Commission can ultimately have their continuation. If necessary, also in the courts as envisaged by this State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. First of all France Cukjati, Social Democratic Party of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	Respectable. Following the current law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance, the law adopted last August entitled men and women living in or outside the marriage union to the procedure of artificial fertilisation. The current law allows for artificial fertilization even in the case of an infertile female, if, at least on the basis of outside the marriage union, it is possible to expect that such a child will have normal conditions for the development of his or her personality and that he or she is no longer entitled to parenthood in advance. Thus, the applicable law lays down the right of a child to as much quality childhood as possible before the right of a single woman to maternity without partnership or without paternity, since Article 2 requires special care in the process of artificial fertilisation to protect the benefit and rights of a future child. We now have before us a proposal for legislative changes and additions, which also in the amended version constitute a significant deviation from the basic European principles. For the proposal allows artificial cultivation of single, even fertile women, without a partner. Allows introduction of the embryo into the foreign uterus and the hypothetical cell below cloning. The questionableness of the proposal is shown above all in this: For the first time, it allows artificial fertilisation to be done where it is not necessary for a single fertile woman. Secondly, to allow implantation, introduction, adoption of foreign embryos into the womb. Thirdly, children’s rights are subject to the rights of a single woman or man. And for the fourth time, the proposal does not take into account the views of the medical and legal profession. Surely every human being, every woman, also single, has the right to treat infertility, this is the right to address the causes of professional counseling, medicines and surgical interventions. However, biomedical fertilisation is not a treatment, it is only fertilisation or fertilisation aid. We also try to say hello to a crippled disabled person who will walk with his own feet, just as nature has given us. And only when that doesn't work is when the patient really can't walk and when we cross over his treatment, we give him a wheelchair. And a wheelchair is not a treatment, it's just a tool to ease disability. And it would be funny if wheelchairs were given to healthy people, so it would be incomprehensible if medicine artificially fertilized healthy fertile women. The excuse that some single women are traumatized from their youth has no weight. If a single fertile woman who wants to have a child has such severe psychological resistance to men that the natural course of fertilisation is impossible, then such a patient needs psychiatric or psychotherapy first. That's a treatment. Question number two: Single infertile woman. A female infertile woman who does not live in an extramarital community and has no known partner and does not survive the fertility of mature eggs can only be fertilized by the introduction of embryos from foreign eggs and foreign seeds. So it's the adoption of a foreign child, even though it's an unborn child. The European principles of adoption, which have also been summarised by our social legislation, allow for adoption only by couples who are highly likely to be expected to provide psychological, sociological and materially favourable conditions for the adopted child. The proposed amendment opens the door to the adoption of a child or an embryo without regard for the childhood that awaits him. If a single infertile woman is allowed artificial insemination by the implantation of a foreign embryo, then due to the constitutional equality between the sexes, sooner or later, we will also have to allow a male to adopt a child. And it's like a single woman. No restrictions and no additional conditions. I'm gonna be a little mean and ask you. You can imagine a single pedophile who can easily adopt a frightened boy. "Of course," you'll say, "it's perfectly normal, because a single man has the right to paternity." This, however, is a key issue that is called the protection of children's rights. In 1989, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which, among other things, states in Article 7: "I have the right to know and care for my parents." The Convention further states: "In all activities concerning children, let the child's benefits be the main guide." So Slovenian text, Slovenian translation. The original text even speaks of the greatest benefits of a child: "The best interest of a child." Thus, assuming a child’s interest in having a loving mother is certainly an even greater interest in having a loving father, even though only a pear. At its 44th Assembly in Madrid in 1992, the World Medical Association adopted a declaration on surrogate motherhood in which it points out a number of ethical, legal, moral, psychological, social and financial problems that may be brought about by the legalisation of the borrowing of the womb and in which it strongly opposes the transformation of the child into a product in terms of satisfying the interests of others, not for the purpose of itself. And this transformation of a child into a means of satisfying one's own desires into a product, a toy that can be bought by anyone and at any time, is the core of a dispute that makes the proposed amendment of the law unacceptable. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union was solemnly announced at the 15th summit in Nice on 7 December last year, which states in Article 24, which reads: "In all acts concerning children, whether carried out by public authorities or by private institutions, the interests of children must prevail. Every child has the right to regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents." The right to parenthood is therefore a fundamental, maximum right to be incorporated into all legislation, as far as children are concerned. A child must never be legally restricted to both parenthood. However, this European document, which sets out the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizens of the European Union in an integrated manner, begins with this preamble: "The European peoples have decided to build their future in a peace based on common values." And here too is the issue of common European values. Entry into Europe, therefore, leads by accepting these values in principle: take it or leave it. The proposal to amend the law on artificial fertilisation builds on different starting points and therefore leads us away from these values, away from Europe. And the last question is: failure to respect the profession. Following the applicable law on artificial fertilisation under Article 21, the State Commission for OBMP shall monitor the progress of biomedical science and, if necessary, propose amendments and updates to the legislation in force. This Commission - It consists of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ombudsman, users of OBMP and experts in the field of medical ethics, law, psychological and sociological sciences and from one expert from each OBMP centre. - she didn't propose any changes to the law. She didn't support them either. She categorically refused. They are equally strongly rejected by the State Commission for Medical Ethics. On 29 March this year, the Parliament of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia unanimously adopted a decision calling on the Government and the National Assembly to withdraw the proposal for amendments to the law from further consideration, thus allowing for a public debate to prepare a new proposal where necessary. The Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly also notes, not only that the speedy procedure is unfounded, but also that the artificial insemination of a single woman’s child in advance would predispose her to the legal consequences of paternity so that the child would already be placed in a worse position under the legal provision than that of children, artificially conceived into a legal or outside the legal community. It is not right that the opinion of the profession should not be taken into account when dealing with such a sensitive issue as the conception of a child. If individual Members proposing legislative amendments were to ignore the international conventions on the subject of children's rights and the clearly unified positions of the profession, it would still be understandable. However, that the government, with its amendments, cannot be understood differently than that we are once again witnessing the politicization of the issue, which is essentially purely of an expert and ethical nature. The current law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance has been born in professional circles for many years and is therefore good and also in line with all international accepted standards. It is also unacceptable for us to interfere with the most sensitive part of the law on such matters as horror, swift procedure, and without the consent of the profession. We are undermining compliance with the requirements of the European Union and opening up new and deep conflicts also with our current legal order. Members of the Social Democrats therefore reject the speedy process of amending this law, and we believe that the proposed text, as well as the amended government version, is not a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, New Slovenia's delegation group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, all present. The New Slovenia Group will not support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the treatment of infertility and insemination methods with biomedical assistance. Despite a number of comments made by the Secretariat for the Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, the representative of the Faculty of Law and the State Commission for Medical Ethics and the Commission for the OBMP, as well as some Members, the proposal of this Act was adopted by the home committee. Since the law is adopted quickly, there is a danger that Members will decide too quickly and that political interests will prevail. Since the marriage proposal does not advocate a medical profession and is also contrary to legal and medical ethics, this law will be political and unprofessional. Although some of the extremes of this bill have been eased by the government's amendments, there is still a growing right for OBMP outside of medical entitlement. The treatment of infertility in women without a male partner should be legally permitted. In these cases, we know that infertility is difficult to prove. The marriage proposal provides for artificial insemination with the seed of the donor, even in healthy women without a male partner. The explanation by the applicants that female women with the new 2000 law had lost their rights under the old law, which was adopted in 1977, is wrong, as under this law artificial fertilisation procedures were allowed only on the basis of professionally established reduced male fertility. This also means that, from this point of view, the proposal for a law amending the speedy procedure is unfounded. Data on the incidence of infertility, as well as information on foreign legislation submitted by the Group of Members, are also misleading. In most European countries with appropriate legislation, OBMP procedures in single women are not allowed. If we are to adopt a proposal to amend the law in the form it comes into the National Assembly, medicine will have to apply heterologous fertilisation procedures with the seed of the donor to healthy women. This is totally contrary to medical ethics and the progress of the medical profession. Today, the heterologic OBMP is only exceptionally medically justified. The legislative proposal in this form also represents a step forward in the ethically increasingly questionable use of medicine in the non-medical field. In this case, in the field of psychosocialism, a child cannot be treated for the plight of a single woman, because the child is only a child and not a psychiatrist. On the other hand, the mother herself must take responsibility for the child’s healthy development and for such a child’s growth as far as possible to realize his biological and spiritual potential. The question of responsibility also arises. Who will answer: If a child is born with a disability, if he disappoints the expectations of a single mother, or if something else is wrong? As we can see, the concerns raised by medical experts in this proposal are not negligible. Nor are the concerns of lawyers who are already asking what can happen because this law foresees such poorly defined exceptions to the applicable OBMP methods. The border between medical eligibility and the commercialisation of the OBMP method is very unclear. Finally, we must ask ourselves who will pay for this medically questionable help to single women. Will this be the Department of Health Insurance? And who will pay for the charges and the negative consequences that may arise? Are we going to pay the taxpayers? On the basis of all these issues and legal inconsistencies, the New Slovenia Group is in no way prepared to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I believe in the rules, so let these rules be anywhere, in transport, in different institutions, and not least in this national assembly. However, at the time of the adoption of the agenda, we were alerted to the procedure. I, too, will touch on behalf of the Group of Members on the procedure, such as the adoption of this law. Article 201: "When the emergency needs of the State, the interests of defence or of natural disasters so require, it is possible to adopt a law in a swift manner." Today we accept the amendment of the 1977 law. So, for a huge number of years, almost 30 years, we feel the need, or there are extraordinary needs in this country. And today you remember and come up with a plan with a law after a quick procedure. And by law, which interferes with one of the most sensitive areas of birthing life and in the final stages of resting people. I believe in the family, and it turns out that the family represents one step forward. Progress and development in this society. But only a family that's perfect. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, we must not allow the possibilities that will happen, as just mentioned by the Socialists and NSIs in the presentation of the groups of Members. Whether it's a story about pedophiles or whether it's a story about artificial fertilization of a healthy woman. This law brings nothing but the fulfillment of the pre-election promises of liberal democracy. Nothing else. Although the drafter specifically requested in his introductory explanation that we should not go into the political field, it is regrettable that this cannot be avoided. For this is the purpose of this law. The purpose of this marriage is to destroy a healthy family in our society. A more detailed opinion of the Slovenian National Party was presented through the rapporteur of the home working body, where Mr Zmago Jelinčič has also demonstrated and expressed basic views and where this law will lead us. This law is the first step towards recognizing the possibility of adoption of children to homosexual partners. This is not a European norm. The European standard is family, healthy family. We believe in a child born between a woman and a man in the Slovenian National Party. We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik, SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u140	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the SLS + SKD Group, the Slovenian People's Party deeply respects the plight of the affected and we look forward to the progress of medical science and other sciences, which have made great progress in the past decades in science and that it has entered that sensitive area, the area of conception and creation of human beings. That is why, last year, as Members, we supported the content of the law that solved this sensitive issue. I would also like to remind you that last year our parliamentary group did not support the amendment extending the content of the law from the framework for the treatment of infertility. At the time of the consideration of the bill's proposal, as proposed by the Group of Members, presented by the honourable colleague Orazmova, I would also like to say that in our opinion, a mistake has been made, particularly when we have made a decision in the majority or when the National Assembly has made a majority of decisions and adopted this law and we adopt it quickly. We must admit, all of us, that some serious reservations are about the very content of this law and that the wise legislator - as a rule on such occasions - serves a regular process. I would therefore, as soon as possible, propose that the following item of the agenda should take advantage of the business possibility or provision of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission, so that the second and third readings of the law can be adopted in accordance with the ordinary procedure for the benefit of the content of this Act. This business option exists, and if the National Assembly accepts it, it will act wisely. In our parliamentary group, this proposal is further substantiated by the very rare fact that the entire area of professional associations covering the content of the law would be so clearly opposed to the procedure first and also to certain provisions of the law. And these are the provisions that are still crucial. Therefore, we believe that the reasons for the State assembly to listen to these reservations and to take advantage of the way in which the second and third hearings would be considered under the ordinary procedure. We also believe that there would be a better second path - here it has already been mentioned, that the State Commission for OBMP, which is now implementing the law adopted last year - would be the one in which it would mature professional and other knowledge, especially professional and organizational and practical. This State Commission, as stipulated in the law in the preceding indent, is supposed to be an incentive for amendments to the law. This initiative would be addressed to the Minister and the Minister would make a law through the government. I would also like to say here on behalf of the parliamentary group that we have followed the public debate on this law closely. We took note of the honesty of colleague Orzmova when she acknowledged in the public radio debate last week that the content of this law was also a pre-election provocation in some contexts because she wanted to challenge the issue to be discussed and that it was proposed in a pre-election period. Colleague Orazmova has also publicly admitted this. Finally, this fact is followed by the following fact that the government, with its amendments, has actually improved the law itself. We wonder whether it is responsible for Members and Members to write such a sensitive law by pre-election provocation. This question certainly exists and is not a good passenger for the adoption of the law itself. For it is understandable that professional associations and other associations of civil society responded first to the reasons and reasons in the original content of the law. If we now look at the original content of the explanations and amendments proposed by the government, we would actually find that there is already a big shift here. And certainly this purpose, to provoke a little, was not a good journey for the adoption of the law itself. I would also like to say that in the Group of Members, we have decided, after careful consideration, that due to medical reservations, some legal reservations and also the ethical controversy of certain solutions, so that our votes for this law will not be cast if it is adopted quickly. However, since we expect the possibility of a second- and third-reading law being adopted on a regular basis, in cooperation with professional associations, taking into account European experience that is few: from Scandinavian, Dutch and others, solutions could also be found for those most sensitive issues. And if that happens, of course, we will participate in the adoption of this law in a responsible manner. Some of the fellow Members, when representing the views of the members of the groups, have in fact already been listed, and so far they have all come forward, those parliamentary groups that are reluctant to follow the content of this law. That's why I don't want to repeat them. Medical reasons that have been listed and, above all, listed by some professional associations have their weight. We add, however, that there is no way that this is a matter of one profession and that other professions can participate equally in this issue. This is only possible in a public discourse where the profession and the public concerned are clear on this issue. Other reservations are of a legal nature. Some were listed. Protecting the benefit of the child is the principle of regulation in all European family legal systems. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child was also listed. The third reservation, which is ethical in nature, is in particular a reservation that challenges us Members and Members of Parliament to be accountable in our decisions. Therefore, in our view, considering the procedure itself would be a good incentive for the National Assembly to adopt a law that could be proud of. However, if the National Assembly adopts the law itself by means of a rapid procedure, it will not receive the votes of Members and Members of the SLS+SKS of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I've recorded your proposal. Mr Valentin Pohorec, DeSUS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, honourable President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mr Minister and his fellow Member. I think we are ahead of a rather responsible task when we are discussing the very law on the treatment of infertility and the process of artificial fertilisation by means of biomedical aid and the resolution of other issues that this law has. It's up to us whether we accept it or not. We also have great responsibility for the possible consequences that will arise by adopting this law or by refusing to accept it. According to informal latest data, only a million 987 thousand 500 are Slovenians or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I've got the data on the table. The increase is decreasing, and in 2006 we are expected to be only a million 984 thousand 900 or about 3,000 people less. This is a small town that will disappear from the surface. At our borders is the daily inflow and pressure of the Chinese, Iranians, Albanians, Pakistanis, Tamilians and others. Many would like to stay in Slovenia. Will we be perfecting the population with the peoples of these nations? Although I'm not a xenophobic, I think we need to think about it. Doctors in our health institutions are fighting for the survival of all children, especially early births. Among us are women who like to have children, but for health reasons they cannot give birth. We think it's medical duty to help them. That's the point. But women who are single are also capable of becoming pregnant, and they do not want to start on a natural course. The reasons for doing so for single women must be deep in the minds of these women, that they have resistance to men and are mostly due to the stress, tragedy or cruel events they have experienced in their lives since childhood. These women should be helped, too. They want to, and they have the right to become mothers. They have the right to give birth, care, care, and raise their child. Many or most of these children will have appropriate material possessions, but not the love and protection of both parents, that is, the father. When the baby grows up, he'll probably start looking for his father. As every child finds, almost every illegitimate child. And an artificial birth of children with an unknown biological father will encounter many obstacles in this search for his father. Even when he asks his mom, "Who's my dad?" For a long time, a growing boy or a girl will not be able to believe how right he came into the world somewhat differently than others. So the dilemma is a lot. Even experts from different backgrounds are not united in this. How can we, Members of Parliament, be united today or in the near future, decide on this issue? But dilemmas for or not raise other questions. Are children in a marriage or an extramarital community that is growing more and more truly just happy children? More and more are single - parent families, mainly the mother of a single mother, one or more children. Are they exclusively happy with you? More and more adopted children. So, famous parents, or at least a famous mother, gave them up for adoption. Child trafficking and modern slavery are emerging. Many families cherish the evils of today’s day, such as alcohol, drugs, hatred among partners, mother - beatings, and vice versa, as well as marital killings. In many families with a greater number of children, many are also unwanted and suffering. Having an insufferable father or a mother is more difficult for a child than having only one parent. So what do you do? Despite many scientific, ideological and legal dilemmas, our parliamentary group nevertheless tends to adopt this law. If these single women who want a child along the path of artificial fertilization have already experienced a tragedy or evil, that they are deprived of the love of a man and a normal life, including sexual relations, we will at least allow them to become mothers. We believe that this right is given to them by the Constitution and that it is ultimately up to women to decide. But let the profession and the law keep an eye on the fact that there will be no abuse and exploitation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger, Young Slovenia Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we will vote in our conviction because it is a law for which there can be no political direction, nor should it be defined as an appropriate or inadequate party programme. However, I will briefly present the majority opinion in the parliamentary group of young people. We're dealing with the law quickly. The reasons should therefore be the needs, both of the citizens and of the countries. The reason for the country's emergency needs is the decline in births in Slovenia and the increase in the number of infertile men and women. However, the number of these in Slovenia is not such that it has a noticeable impact on population trends. The OBMP should only help people who cannot have children due to infertility, couples of different sexes, spouses or extra-marital partners or men and women living in a stable living community. Under the new law, the rights of OBMP should also be guaranteed to single fertile women, single women or women without male partners. This should also support the fact that as many as one quarter of children already live in single - parent families in Slovenia. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is part of our law. Protecting the benefit of the child is a principle of family law. The main principle in all these child-related activities must be the child's benefits. This is the first paragraph of Article 3. It is not of the greatest benefit to a child if a single woman is born and it is unlikely that he will ever have a father. The child’s right to both parents is governed by the individual’s right to progeny. If the father and the mother divorce later, they deprive their child of one of the parents and still have a responsibility to the child. A child without a father would be deprived of a wider family environment, and would also be deprived materially, since his fatherhood is the least of survival and inheritance, including after a father. The law would support the spread of singleness, which is a social problem. Finally, let us not forget Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution, which guarantees equality before the law to everyone, regardless of gender. Women would, on the basis of their biological, gender-specific characteristics, guarantee the right to progeny. What about the man? Aren't they in an unequal position here? If we look a little further. We have nothing against same - sex relationships or couples, both men and women, but they could also demand the right to progeny. And what about those women who used to be men and change sex? They'd be looking for those rights, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? Ms. Silva Montenegro, United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In the Joint Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased and pleased to consider today the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical assistance. The law adopted last year under the Bajuk government triggered and raised the most dust due to its formulation on the prohibition of the possibility of artificial insemination for single women. The parliamentary debate lasted for hours. However, a critical public has also come forward. Despite our warnings about the discriminatory situation of the population groups and the apparently unilateral mentality of the law, the law was adopted this time. In the light of the proposal for amendments to the law currently in the parliamentary procedure, this option is once again an option, and the Joint List Group will therefore support the amendment of the law which allows all women to be fertilized. However, the Joint List Group regrets that, at the time of the entry into the third millennium, Slovenian policy to women on this sensitive issue is unable to provide at least such opportunities and rights as have been guaranteed by the Health Measures Act in the exercise of the right to this freedom of decision on the birth of children adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the year 1977, which did not separate women into married and single persons and, in the light of this situation, also gave them the right. There's something else to point out. Although the constitutional provision on gender equality before the law is clear, clear and clear and is one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of a citizen or citizen, the proposal to amend the law in its text retains a committee which will decide which single woman is suitable for birth and which is not. This gives us an intermediate article that further assesses the underlying. The Joint List Group wonders whether this Commission will have the opportunity to interfere with the individual's rights so far acquired and whether the public's view of the work of this interim Article, this Commission, will be appropriate. In fact, we've got our own serious hindrance here. In the Consolidated List, we expect that the debate on the present law, as was the case with the Committee, will also create a critical spirit among all MPs of the National Assembly and the extreme sensitivity of members of the National Assembly to the same possibilities and, in particular, to constitutional provisions. Above all, to those constitutional provisions which speak of the right to free decision on the birth of children. Similarly, we expect the adoption of the law to prevent all possible abuses and so present dilemmas that have been triggered in public debate, and unfortunately also in one way prevent a more productive debate, which is very present among members of the national assembly. These include, of course, those strange discussions about the commercialisation of this law and so on. The United List of Laws and the proposed law supports and hopes that the Members of the National Assembly will also allow this law to be adopted in their further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This concludes the onset of the parliamentary groups No. [[...]] LDS delegation group. Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues! Following the adoption of the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance last year, the area of infertility treatment was not fully regulated. In the autumn of 2000, amendments to the law were introduced to address some of the most pressing shortcomings. Otherwise, the novel is intended to grant the right to treat infertility to all women and not only to women living in marriage or outside marriage. The right to medical assistance in the treatment of infertility and also to artificial fertilisation, irrespective of fertility [[...]] [[Aborted]] until 2000. [[...]] In those years it was artificially fertilized, we couldn't figure out the exact number, but it probably didn't go to even a few 10s, maybe even under 10. What we were able to find out somewhere, just like that, according to heterogeneous data, it's mostly women with high education. We support the proposed amendment because we believe that treatment of infertility should be provided to all women, including single women, and we do not oppose the right of fertile women to insemination procedures with biomedical assistance for justified reasons. We believe that fears of free fertilization and eugenics are unjustified in choosing between the desired characteristics of children, which I can confirm by the number of artificial fertilizations of single fertile women so far. As far as fertile women living in marriage or outside marriage are concerned, it is unlikely that the partner will agree to choose a progeny that will not be biologically his or her guardian is the Commission for Infertility with Biomedical Assistance, which will reject such requirements, as it is clear from the explanation of the article that only women who have reservations about sexual relations or who have no partner for a longer period and in similar cases will be entitled to the proceedings. I would like to remind all Members that the right of single women to treat infertility is not the only change proposed by this new law. We have noted that they have tried with the government and with the professional public to develop additional solutions that will enable the law to be implemented and it has proved that the law does not deal satisfactorily with all other issues or that in some cases it is impossible even in essence to deal with infertility with biomedical assistance. This dialogue is followed by amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which also provide a legal basis for the importation of sex cells. This one is absolutely necessary. Indeed, it has turned out that the number of donors needed to carry out OBMP procedures for already-declared patients cannot be obtained on our territory. In particular, it would be likely that each sample would be affected and so on. We know what problems would arise when we talked about the unwillingness of the Slovenians to donate, if there was a variant of traceability and so on. The estimates have also, as you have probably heard in recent times, been that it would be just testing, the evaluation of these domestic seeds obtained, probably at least five times, perhaps ten times more expensive than imported seeds. The bill stipulates that the Minister of Health will determine which centres will be able to import sex cells and will also determine what criteria they must meet, so that any fear of imports will be superfluous, as only sex cells that will be subject to the same control as they are expected to have. When determining the import, the Minister will also have to follow the provisions of the law establishing the traceability of sex cells. I would like to remind all Members how important it is for the law to be adopted as soon as possible. We know that infertility for an individual is severe, especially in women whose biological clock is already relentlessly close. All Members would also be asked to support amendments to the amendment of the law in those parts relating to the import of sexual cells. As far as the first article of the law is concerned, we propose to avoid any stigmatisation and intense political dialogue in the debate, and that everyone decide in accordance with his or her religious, political or secular beliefs and in accordance with his or her conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. The mags signed up for the debate in writing. Petty Officer Janez, Aloise Peterle, Stanislav Brenčič. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. The word has magic. Little Janez.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a fellow Member mentioned in the Consolidated List that we should be critical, I will also try to be critical and exact as much as I can. We have received a proposal for a law that has upset the Slovenian public, including us in the committee itself, and probably not completely without a basis. The medical profession and professional associations have made it quite unanimous that the proposal for a law such a solution as the proponents have put forward is not appropriate. Let's see some reasons. A lot of them were already listed, and I'm going to touch the individual. The Legislature has already pointed out the fact that, with this law in force, we will have the legal status of two kinds of children. Therefore those who will have rights to their father, namely, to the legal ones and to the real ones, and to those who will not have them. This, of course, also results in other rights: family, social, heritage and so on. This law undermines the building of family policy, heritage relations and so on. The next thing you can touch is that the applicants point out that the law that was passed has deprived them of their rights in the exercise of the right to freedom of decision, which of course is not true. Justice had been given before, and nothing had been taken away. Other forms, additional forms of infertility treatment, have also been made possible by the previous law. Protecting the child's benefits. We have said which conventions are in force and, of course, it makes sense, if we are, the rule of law, to take them into account. Otherwise, we have to turn it all upside down. Children's rights are supposed to be against the rights of others, because they are a weaker being and they need to be protected. This is built into our law. The next thing the proponents mention is, of course, women who for personal reasons do not accept having a child on a natural path with a man. As far as I can tell, and I've been doing psychosocial counselling, and I've been abroad, and we've been taught that psychosocial trauma is not good, that it's unprofessional to deal with other people, that you recognize them as an object for your rescue. This does not lead to the benefit of those who have these psychosocial traumas, but works to the detriment of those who are the object for this particular one who is being treated. As Mr Cukjat has mentioned, it takes a second, second, or second treatment. The statement that we have more and more single-parent families is a fact, and I don't deny it. However, I am asking why a country with its laws, with its regulations, would promote imperfect families, single - parent families. Why would we encourage that? Of course, the question arises as to the right of men to children. The question of the right of two men to children is raised. The question of the right of two women living together to children is raised. The issue of the rights of three men, one woman, all possible options that we now have and are not trippy and some argue that there are no worse psychosocial relations in these families. Why not these communities? There are. Why not? When I was in Germany, I had a chance to see Germany's custody of children. They stood up for themselves and put a great deal of emphasis on them. A perfect family is what we are looking for. This is our real goal and it provides the basic conditions for healthy development. I don't rule out bad relationships in families. I'm not shutting it down. But as we look ahead, it is the right community that gives optimal development for the child. There are no more lawyers on the State Commission allowing these interventions. This could have consequences. Complaints, which will be extremely difficult to resolve, can, of course, come from such unfinished laws and procedures. These will be different, including compensations, these will also be legal status. Let me mention, by the way, those children who are thus born, i.e. one woman, have fewer opportunities for socio-economic security. The question is, who should go in that way? The question may arise why not this country. Also with the aim of equating economic opportunities. The cost of fertilisation itself with biomedical assistance is not the maximum cost. Of course, the cost will be primarily on the burdens of this single woman and, of course, on the other hand, on the greater part of the country. That's a fact. One of the facts, too. But that's not the key reason. I've listed the key reasons at the beginning. I'm just adding them now. The law or proposal of the law, in particular the explanation, is written with a somewhat well-known ideological category apparatus, which is also known to me and which is not appropriate, is not the most appropriate for a modern democratic society. There are very few professional, ethical and legal arguments. They're missing you. The dependence on the rights of three things, namely the child, the mother and the father, shall not be taken into account. In particular, it is based on the subjective right of a woman to a child. The issue of wild commercialisation is also being raised. Slovenia can appear as an island as a niche for these interventions. You'll say, "Yes, it can only be for the benefit of the state. We'll get the money." I don't think it makes sense to put such things on this scale. I also object to the speedy procedure. A rapid procedure under the Rules of Procedure shall be permitted or permitted where the explicit needs of the State, defence interests or natural disasters so require. I don't see the explicit needs of the country here, not the signs, not the reasons. A fellow Member from DesSUS stated that this could solve our population problem. I doubt it, because the speaker behind him who came from the medical profession mentioned that there might have been ten cases and that there was nothing to count on. Nor do we expect to avoid the need for imports, such as exotic labour, the yellow race or something like that. Otherwise, we may be able to import such seeds, which will also spread here. But I wouldn't get involved because I don't want to be any racist. Any race is equal, equal and worthy to me. Thus, the interests of defense are not found in this marriage, nor are there natural disasters. However, I think that if we adopt such a law, it could cause a natural disaster. Therefore, the law is not suitable for adoption and I will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you. The word has a Member. Please, reply, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only fix a bad thought that Mr Petty Officer did not understand me very well about the number, but the number in single women is not entirely, so I think the number in common that would be is significantly higher. [[...]] But only these singles have an extremely low number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you. Please. Mrs. Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be very brief too, because I'm going to discuss it later. However, Mr Drobnič's replica is explained that he remains a lawyer on the OBMP committee. So this part of the debate seems inappropriate to me because the lawyer on this committee remains.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Aloise Peterle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I have listened carefully to Mrs Orzmova's introductory explanation on behalf of the bill-maker and have been paying attention to how this explanation has been reduced or reduced in the spirit of the old paradigm. I speak, of course, from an ideological point of view, and I suppose I can prove that the key root here is ideology and that far behind this is human rights or the rights of single women, in this case. In this paradigm, there was not a word about the child, so to speak, about the family of no word, about the law I had not heard anything special, about the father at all, nothing about ethics, except in relation to the rights of one of the categories of our society, nothing about the relationship to the beginning of life. Every time I meet such a reductionist, so to speak, a narrowing approach, I understand that there is a strong interest in such a thing. And given that this is happening quickly, which many speakers have already talked about, I see in this another evidence that someone is in a great hurry, although it would probably be more appropriate to take some time to discuss and to make quality decisions. It's not my area, but I'm not upset because I think it's a matter of concern to all of us. And I remember those discussions and documents that we can find in the archives of the National Assembly, how this debate developed at the beginning of the debate on the law that I now think some want to change for the second time. Back then, we were talking about the attitude towards life, the potential for abuse, and the great kindness of the beginning of life itself. And whoever digs through our archives will see that this house itself, including with the help of the secretariat for legislation, defines the embryo or recognizes the embryo as a human being. It is also said that a person and a person begins to be entitled. And, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to negotiate here and make most of the decisions about when life starts, whether it's only three months after it starts or ever since. We have been talking to me about man from the beginning, from then on we have to deal with the being as a human being, even though he does not yet speak, but he expresses himself in his own way, as he finds out and reacts and so on. Look, and it was written in there first because it's known to be done with multiple embryos, that unused embryos should be destroyed. Then there was greater attention in the National Assembly, a different attitude to this issue, and then it was accepted that extra or abandoned unused embryos should be allowed to die. Letting die is a diction. Let people die and bees die. I don't know if we're talking about any other beings dying. We have different relationships for animals. So in this house has already been defined, I would say, at least in this formulation, a very human relationship to the beginning of life, is said to the embryo itself. And there it says, you can find it, let it die. So, I already said that I do not want to participate in any decision, not at the parliamentary or governmental level, at which I would be hidden from abandoning life. I'm interested in work for life, not abandonment, letting die as it says in that paper. And by adopting such a law, of course, we give even more opportunities to do so with many embryos of work and somewhere it says that, of course, those who choose to treat it then talk and decide when to feed the embryos and when to let them die. So I want to be on the side of life in a different way. And I can't even support this law on this line. I would like such attention, but even if not by swift procedure, to be devoted to some thorough, good, thoughtful and would also like to see the family policy achieved as unanimously as possible. I see no such concern or justification in this area. And I believe that for the healthy development of our society, which I believe is not possible to continue with the abandonment of our family as a basic social cell, we have sometimes been taught at school and that it makes sense for us as a society, a nation and a country, that we are also raising a family and that we are also supporting it on a national basis, a family, that its basis be a marriage or an outside marriage. However, I am not in favour of favouring, in an ideological way, that we still come up with, options that can't help us in this way, which we were already talking about. Look, we will not be able to solve our problem of numerical status by importing seeds, because I don't think it will go forward with artificial fertilisation, but that this nation will probably go further in nature than it did in this way. But the numbers are obviously not the main argument here. And to come out of this, the right to have a child is spoken of, not even to have a child, to have a child. So this possessive or possessive principle and so reducing or extracting these rights, I think it's bad because it's not in a context that somehow belongs to human nature in a personal and social sense. And this thing, of course, leads to very arbitrary experimentation, without a relationship to the beginning of life. And I've talked about kissing here a lot, and I don't think there's anything special about this marriage. And that's what I'd say. Look, this is the second time we've fixed this marriage. I don't have the impression that it was the first time that it was adopted by some kind of conservative majority. Although, at least I don't think that was the ratio in the National Assembly in the previous round. And here are the proponents writing, in this I see the core of their reasoning when they write on the fifth page of Rapporteur No. 91 below point 2 the objectives and principles of the law are: "In the adoption of the law, the ideological scheme has prevailed, based on the threat and exclusion of those who are not according to the conservative model of family, woman and child designation." Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you need to read any more. It's interesting to keep reading. But the rationale is obviously ideological. So it's a conservative concept. It's said with sentences like we used to be in the old days. I haven't seen a word of insurance in our rapporteur in a long time. Exclusion and so on. This matter has a distinct or, above all, an ideological charge and, of course, single women come in right, those who turn it that way. Then I have to read something else, which is an accident in another way. In fact, the applicants believe that there is increased infertility, and I quote, "increased infertility is the result of our modern way of life." This way of life is praised as a liberal way of life, ladies and gentlemen, we read every day how "faith" is to us because we are liberal. And now, because obviously something is wrong and this is some of the not-so-beautiful consequences of this modern way of life, you could label artificial fertilization as a necessary civilizational adjective. So let's add another one to one of the delusions. Because we're living the wrong way, and we're going to solve the wrong way, so I'm reading this thing in that sense. With all the sensitivity and attention to those who have problems with their knowledge or fertility. I must say, I reject this kind of ideology. I don't think it's democratic either. And I think it would be better if, as a key party of the great coalition, the applicants used multiple methods in this mandate of their own government, which has withdrawn the laws that they proposed following a rapid procedure from the procedure, so they have done with some law, including this 5th meeting. I'd say that now. What is modern and what is advanced, which is also the reason for this. This, of course, is a matter of liberal democracy in our country. But I want us to talk about this together and consider what would be good for us and also what would be progressive. Such a proposal, or such a proposal as it has been here today, I must say that I do not see the possibility of progressing and seeing together, I would say with what has been said so far, some polarisation that we have known since before. The word stigmatization was also used. I think he's targeting the wrong person or the wrong direction. I read stigmatization here in the goals and principles of this law, where there is talk of intimidation and exclusion. Well, of course I won't support such a marriage. But I will support any effort that leads to a different attitude toward life, including more life, and more good families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you. Replica has a Member of the Sašo Pece, followed by Ambassador Jelko Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to join myself, like with some of these replicas that went to the part where the law we're talking about is supposed to help increase the population. I think it is extremely unrealistic and pointless of anyone to use this argument to help the population to increase the number of Slovenians. We must be aware that people or that the number of Slovenians is falling, mainly for social and social reasons. Like financial resources, housing shortages and other important arguments. And this argument, in the best interests of this law, is, to say the least, to forgive, it limits already to the indiscretion or lack of a different imagination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you. The word is Jelko Kacin. Yeah, it's a replica. Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary. I would like to object to the debate of distinguished colleague Lois Peterlet. The law we are discussing has a clear title and clear content. It is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance. But his debate doesn't talk about it. His discussion is constantly talking about some other issues, so that the person who would accidentally step into this room can start thinking about reopening the debate whether the abortion is allowed or not. These questions, I'm sorry, are long overdue. And the completion of the law is intended to solve another issue. In his debate, he spoke several times about ideology. The ideological approach to these issues. And he's paraphrased liberalism many times. Of course, I can honestly admit that I look at the world liberally, and I also have a very liberal view of these issues. But they have the right to decide and choose women in particular, and it is their right to become pregnant or not, with whom and in what way. That is why it seems to me that we should and should allow women to make their own decisions about when and how they will become pregnant and then bring them in. I want to get out of this kind of debate on pregnancy. But for those who have problems for such or other reasons, and this has been fully discussed by the Minister at the outset, some representatives of some parliamentary groups have talked about this, but we can find reasonable reasons to believe that these expectations and needs are legitimate, not to talk about a non-existent group of women, but to talk about that part of our population that would like to enjoy the results of motherhood. It's about women who only want to get pregnant in a slightly different way. And please, let's respect this right. This is the way I object to Mr Peterlet's debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you. First, he's got a replica of the Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Peterlet, too. I mean, on the line, someone's in a big hurry. I would like to say that, when we were in a hurry or that we proposed a rapid procedure, we had no ideological intentions. Those in a hurry are the crowds or people who are in distress. So these are the ones for which we have proposed a rapid procedure and for which it seems to us that it makes sense for us to carry out this treatment and to correct the law. It should be said that, in fact, since the adoption of the law last year, procedures in Slovenia have been almost completely halted. The pressure of these people is great, both for couples and for individual women waiting for artificial fertilization and treatment. So, here to talk about some ideology, I find it extremely inappropriate. And a second replica of a fellow seal. So we, as proponents, have never mentioned any of the reasons for the change of law, but we have always mentioned completely different reasons. I wouldn't repeat them because I talked about them today. But I don't think it's right to attribute this to us, because we never said that the purpose of the law was this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Replica to replica, Ambassador Aloise Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mr Kacin's fellow Member first. The law is clear, but its objectives and principles are also clear, which I have cited in part. And I didn't come up with an ideology. I'm talking about an ideological approach that's obvious here. And I'll read another sentence. "For this reason, Slovenia must not follow conservative and past-looking countries." Ladies and gentlemen, this is pure ideology. It's an old language that hasn't been in this house for a while. What he can and cannot do will, of course, be decided here. However, this rumor is highly ideological. They are, of course, conservative in the past, but liberals are modern and so on. So a little bit, I would say, in this way, I am debating these matters because I see a strong ideological charge in this matter. The Orazm Messengers would only say this. When you say we weren't led by ideology. Then let her go again, please. You're talking to yourself. And you say "many people." Before that, I hear your fellow Member saying, "We couldn't figure out how many there were." Where is our transparency now that we do not know how many artificial inseminations there have been? And we have the commission and everything under control. How can we not know how much of this was? Well, that's how we set things up. Here's your hole.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u165	Members, please, mag. Janez Drobnič, Saša Peceta and the others to stop this debate, which is actually not going anywhere. Please. Please, nothing else. If, of course, they do not take this into account, this is a problem for each individual. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. Or the word "seems to be a replica." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I thought you took away my right to replica. I don't know what law, the rules and so on. Good. Thank you very much for your courtesy. So, first of all, when I said that our arguments were, of course, about the insemination of single women and the numbers relating to them. And then a fellow Member confirmed that there were 10 women, right? I'm not downplaying or I don't want to say that there's no particular problem with these people. There are personality problems, but it's because of it that it's so overwhelming and so fast and so hasty. We know that in other areas, we have countless pressures that lead to suicide in social distress, not to mention. We don't have that, we're not susceptible. We're asking this question because it's the right to choose whether to be alone or with someone else. The other thing I wanted to point out was that in some way we will also have an impact on the greater irresponsibility of fathers or on the absence of such care, to this responsibility. It's also the path that leads there. However, I would also like to make a statement by the Minister - I don't know, I think I understood it correctly on the committee itself - which he stressed, let's do it, so this law has good intentions, let's accept if something goes wrong, we'll just fix it. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law, which speaks of such important matters, cannot be corrected in this way. This is not a problem of buying cars or car insurance. These are essential things that have longer-term implications for the country. An ideological categorical apparatus cannot be overlooked. That's what I said. And that way you can't explain the law. He's been spoken against by professionals, professional associations. As far as I was able to read it, and even if I went to the back to watch the crime, their orientation, I could see that they were extremely consistent. That there were no ideological arguments, advanced, backward. Advanced and backward is a very relative matter, including the concept of family. But after all, this civilization has only brought some of the experiences that it applies, but not to go back to the pre- Flood. So that these arguments, once again, I stress that I am not and many others have not convinced me, are not professionally supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u167	Please, if you can finish. Reploco has a member of the Sašo Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thanks again for saying that. It's a replica of Mrs. Orazmo's. Mrs. Orazem, there are plenty of you in liberal democracy, and I believe that at least two, three listen to this debate, do not vote. [[...]] [[?]] They're just voting on the order. And in such a case, it would make sense if you were already replicating me, if you could make sure I was talking to someone from liberal democracy. But there is also a magnetic record, for the second time it will help you. As far as the ideological debate is concerned, if anything is ideologically coloured in the whole matter, this is the explanation that you have given to the law. Anyone who's read it is an excuse to avoid. And as far as it's concerned, and then I really hope that we get out of these replicas, that the child is not a psychiatrist, and that's why frustrated individuals shouldn't take as their own child therapy by order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Member Alexander Merlo has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to reiterate the difference in these numbers. I restricted myself to this number, below 10, something 10 to these single women, children born to single women. I have to say, it's difficult to track you down, because in fact, we have data protection that says we can't get to the exact numbers. However, I certainly think that the number of OBMP newborns born a year is around, I'll be around again, maybe I won't be completely accurate, but about 400, which is a significant number if we know the total number of births that move around 17,000 a year. So it's not a negligible number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members. There are also a few of us in this mandate of Members, who were members of the Committee, which was the parent working body for the consideration and adoption of the law, which we are amending today in the paper. And that is why I reject, I would say, an unnecessary journey to this law, as contained in the introduction to this law with full intolerance and disqualification. A number of us have been involved with good and positive purposes in the preparation of the previous or basic law. Let me also mention here Dr. Helena Hren Vencelj as one of the major microbiologists in our country, and she has always had a very positive relationship with the importance this law should have in this society after all. The existing law, despite the good intentions it has, and in which it has been incorporated, has not been brought to life in practice. And it does not live, even though large or large families, not families, couples, such or others, expect this law, eagerly awaits it, but the law is in its content such that procedures do not simply occur. And this needs to be fixed, this needs to be fixed. The existing law indeterminates that female infertility is also justified in fertilization procedures and is, unfortunately, also a single woman because of her infertility, and I would like to give her a child in my life. This is also why we need to correct this properly. In my opinion or understanding, the amendments of the government eliminate total liberalisation in the area of artificial fertilisation or the open possibility of abuse in this area, because this would lead to some kind of decadence of our society, as the basic text of the law did. These amendments essentially add to the Committee's amendments the content of the law strongly or very positively, compared to the basic text, put into some practical implementation if the law is adopted. According to the types of fates presented by some women, I have defined myself that in exceptional cases it should also be possible for a single woman who does not have a medical indication of infertility to fertilisation with biomedical assistance. However, strictly following the decision of the Commission on Biomedical Infertility Procedures, it should be noted that an additional legal path or legal instruction on any possible consequences that may occur in the future, and at that time, I would say that applicants may not yet be reasonable or accessible. I am convinced that these procedures, if the law is adopted in this context, that even under special conditions a fertile woman will be able to carry out the process of fertilisation with biomedical assistance, will be very few, given the last responsibility that this committee is facing. I think that very few stakeholders or, above all, those who don't care how this society develops in the future will want to participate in this committee. That's why, as I said, just from some of these insights, my definition is that. But perhaps the law itself, even if the assembly decides that we may be doing second and third readings on a regular basis, will further improve and perhaps, as such, make the law more substantively appropriate in practice, which also in the basic title means – treatment of infertility and, of course, also of fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid, because all these procedures have evolved recently for the good of humanity and we cannot and must not use negatively for any society we already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The debate is limited to five minutes. Member Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I wasn't going to come over, but I had to do this, and I felt obliged, especially to say an opinion that wasn't just my opinion, but was collected on the basis of a number of conversations with different people. The very introduction to this law is, whether liberal democracy wants it or not, just ideological drowning. I will only read you a few paragraphs that the authors have even allowed themselves to be labeled as an example of pure ideology at the expense of life and children. The session turned into a mere humiliation of women, a change of children's property and a concern for the moral purity of the family. Next, they felt that the use of medicine was necessary so that a single woman could reach a child professionally and ethically unacceptable and even completely unnecessary, as it would create a thoughtless, imperfect family or an unquality family. And further, in their view, a child should not be the right of a woman or a mother, but rather a gift to a man and a nation. Where was it ever about that speech? I mean, these were just, and exclusively, cracks that grew on the basis of some, I'm going to say reasoned performances in the heads of liberals, you. So it's only a demagogue, ideologically written introduction. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm giving myself some thought. Today, quite a few arguments were also made for the adoption of this law. Among other things, the beating of women in this case is excluded. So, personally, it seems like a complete and pure nonsense to me that this is an argument that a woman who will be fertilized in this way and have a child will never be beaten. Please! Or do we usually just fight in Slovenian families and I don't know, maybe in the bill of motion? [[...]] Not in principle. And I'll say one more thing. Where does it say that the woman of this child will accept it after childbirth, as all other women say? What if this woman starts beating this child? What if we're a lesbian, gay, having a boyfriend, a boy? Or she will accept it as she would have wanted when artificial fertilization occurred. The argument is that with this, there will be more Slovenians - nonsense of all nonsense. I'm sorry. I have to tell you this. I don't know why there's no other proposal in liberal heads. Let's say a proposal to stimulate birth in families, in young families. Let's say students who get pregnant, have babies who have a scholarship when they get married, lose their scholarship. So they lose their basic money to survive this child. He can have a rich husband, I don't know anything. But that's what we should stimulate. Number of births of children as many as possible. However, I have never seen proposals grow in any head, I do not know the options to reward or stimulate families financially to have as many children as possible. Vida Petrovčič notes that there will be only one million Slovenians in Slovenia in 2020. Why does it not grow in your heads a different law that would prevent such a catastrophic decline in births and the number of Slovenians? Last but not least, the law on marriage. I don't know if any of the candidates ever read it, but read it, a direct disaster of non-counselling. I am not talking about church marriages, but I am talking about those official ones who would, for example, give the children of both parents in a marriage relationship and, of course, give them a completely different view of this policy. I will not support this law absolutely. Not for that, because the very introduction I have mentioned is a perfect ideology, not least because it once again puts two-type people in Slovenia. If two lesbians want to have an fertilization and have a baby, let's say I accept it very conditionally. What if he's wanted by two homosexuals? Let's just say a man comes to the hospital who's going to say absolutely that he's a woman. Please tell me how you're going to fertilize him, but this man has the right to have a baby or not, if he claims to have all the maternal tendencies, I'm sorry, I'm asking you, I know he has to have a uterus. I know, so a man like that needs more treatment. And women who want to, too, and of course it's absolutely impossible, or maybe you have such a liberal approach that you can also fertilize one. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u175	Mr. Ambassador, you've taken five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u176	Yeah, thank you, but I hope, I mean, it says I can finish despite everything. So again, it is a matter of discrimination, it comes back to two views of different people and, of course, this law is so completely wrong that I kindly ask all those who will oppose and I am very glad that it is also the parties who often hold together with you to join and vote against such a mess as is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you. Reploco has a Member of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm replicating my buddy Rupar, and I'm going to be very brief. The explanations and the explanatory notes are the literal records of the debate on last year's Health Committee, and I think that the month of June, when there was a debate on the law adopted last year. So these statements are, I'd say, literally from that magnetogram that was copied. As far as the ideal family is concerned, where Mr Rupar believes there should be no violence. I would like to draw his attention to last year's action by the Equal Opportunities Office entitled "What is your girl" in which we tried and tried to tell the Slovenian public that every fifth woman is a victim of domestic violence, I stress in the family, and every seventh person is raped. So here to talk about it this way, I don't think it's right. However, if we stop at what has been highlighted many times today, I would like to recommend that we take into his hand the book of Shame. She published the Youth Book recently, where she will be able to read what a conventional and very outspoken "correct and quality family" can do, of course, from a child. So it seems to me that idealization is either one way or the other or marginalization is by no means appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Member Leopold Kremjar has the floor. Yes, please, I missed it. The replica on the replica is by Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u180	I have to replicate. Thank you very much. If it wasn't ideological, then you wouldn't be writing these notes here, like in a fat press. But because it was a desire, an emphasis ideologically, on the contrary, you did. Regarding your argument of "violence in the family". Why, though, do you, who is the proposer or has taken over the proposal, not resort to instruments for a different approach of the husband and wife in the family, including of each other and of the children. Why do you have trouble getting into fights and stuff? In your opinion, if I understand correctly and surely so, it would be best for all men, so every fifth man, I don't know how to put in line, after this law donates seeds and disappears away from a woman, because it's a very potential to beat her. So that's what you're saying. You are literally stressing this with these arguments. So every fifth is beaten and I agree that it is. Do something that won't happen. Yes, I agree. [[...]] [[The response of the hall - laughter.]] But they do prove it because you proved it yourself. [[...]] You proved these things yourself. Do something to make sure it doesn't happen again. But give these families the stimulation, give them, I don't know, make the law, make them have more money, so they don't have social problems that come up with these fights and fights. However, you cannot now generalize everything in general. So, after this law and your argument, it's best that no one else marrys, that women stay alone with children, and "the tens" go somewhere, I don't know where we're not going to fight. That's your argument. Exactly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Member Leopold Kremjar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Although it is difficult to start a debate in such an atmosphere, it is difficult to do so. I think we've mixed up certain things, of course. There's probably no one among us who wouldn't want the family to be as perfect and beautiful as they should be. So do I, and all of us, and I deeply agree with everyone who says that we should do much to help this family, and that this family really should live as it is. Unfortunately, we have to take certain facts into account, and these facts are such - but I do not think it is also - that every third, that 30% of the divorce between marriages concluded, is in these of course, says each third practically, a large majority of the children are assigned to mothers, which I also think is right after all. The same is true if either the children or the decision-makers decide and probably knows why. In short, that the vast majority, not the majority, but, say, almost every third child grows up with one parent, especially the mother. That we still have different deviations - and I don't think it's right that there are such rejections - that of course we have a lot of pregnancy that is before the marriage and where many times the law is the result of that. That we have a lot of pregnancy for unmarried women with married men who then stay in that marriage. And so on. It would be pointless to list any deviations that are possible from an ideal and all acceptable, even for me, a model of the family. That's not the point. After all, even the pedophiles mentioned above, the vast majority, according to what we can read, are married. They're single, but they come from families. Married men. And a family that's been set up. I just want to say one thing. And this one seems extremely important to me. This provision, which we are discussing today, is an option. No one's forcing anyone into anything. It's simple, and here's democracy, when we're talking about democracy, to give someone the chance to choose something. If we don't accept this, we're limiting someone's chances. And that is, if you want, part of some kind of liberalism, and that is also part of some kind of democracy. So it is that a voluntary woman can choose and those who have moral, religious, whatever, of course, entirely legitimate concerns will not choose this. No one can force her to do that. What's important is that we also have a correctional commission called this commission, which is made up of people who are not just medical professionals, without taking away the medical profession, of course, the possibility of judgment, but also lawyers, ethics and so on, not to mention, we have heard. In short, it is impossible and commercialisation mentioned, it prevents any intervention and, above all, let me say again, it seems very important to us, it is an option, it is a choice, we give someone the opportunity to choose something and we take the chance that someone wants something and they can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you. Member Yuri Malovrej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm an extremely technical man, and I'm going to have a hard time discussing this matter, which is a matter of particular concern to psychologists, psychiatrists, doctors. And I guess this marriage could even support it if it wasn't for single women. And I will give some reasons or some questions that need to be considered in this national assembly, as well as broader ones. For the sake of a single woman, the momentary enthusiasm can be when she goes to a friend who has a child and is excited about this baby. The second is that a single woman is her fundamental right and decision. However, the law in Article 1 deals with the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance. Here the question is, how does a single woman who rejects her partner know she's barren? Can she even know? Then there's the other one. In a few years' time, women will be required to apply for seed, which should have the following conditions or the following requirements. It's supposed to be a two-footer, it's supposed to be an athlete, it's supposed to be an intelligent equivalent of 145 or more. Supposed to be with black or blue eyes or black hair. Third. It was said that the donors were mainly from imports. There's some exotic stuff going on here, we're going to have Asians, we're going to have black ones. What about the condemnation of the environment where this child will be born and the frustration of this child when he learns how he was conceived? I have to say something: the National Assembly is a legislative body and the legislator must protect the rights of a weaker one rather than the current satisfaction of a person. Dear Members and Members! If we continue to do so, in a few years we will also accept the right to cloning in this National Assembly, and here is our degradation. In our environment, we fight all the time for organic, biodynamic food production and I don't know what else, and on the other hand, for the man in the test tube. This is also followed, as I have already said, by cloning, creating spare parts in this way, if I express myself differently through some science fiction, and following the revenge of nature. Revenge of nature is already seen in Ebola, already seen in AIDS, and is also seen in other matters or problems that plague mankind. As I said in the introduction, for the only treatment of marriage partners, as well as extramarital partners, yes, while for single women who decide to be single, as I think Mr Tsukati said before, they are needed first by a psychiatrist and then just everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Member Danica Simšić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Already, a colleague of Silva Montenegro, explaining the position of the Group, regretted that, after almost a quarter of a century in that country, we could not have the power to give women, whether married, single, separate or otherwise connected to the living community, certain rights. However, I would like to read to you the article 34 of the Law on Health Care in the Realisation of the Rights to Free Decisions on the Birth of Children, which was adopted in the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia in 1977, which states very simply and clearly only this: "Artical fertilisation may be carried out by a full-year, judicious and healthy woman during the age appropriate for birth." No marriage, no extramarital relationship, no other single or similar category - every full-year, judicious and healthy woman, during the age appropriate for birth. This was a law that was in force in that country or in the previous Republic for a total of 20 years and was amended and replaced last year, and this article was also repealed. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Artificial Fertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance, which we are considering today, is the first proposed amendment to the Act adopted last July 20, 2000, when, if I may replicate it to my colleague Peterlet, there is no harm in the Chamber, the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly consisted of 47 votes from Members and Members who supported the Bajuk government. That was the majority in the then Parliament. We can read this in all the media and in the archives. I would like to touch on one more thing in my debate, namely the rights of the child. I would like to talk about the declaration of children's rights by the United Nations, which was adopted by the General Assembly in 1959 and which, of course, in the preamble to the last line, states that mankind owes the child the best he can. And on that basis, he accepts ten principles. Two of these principles also contain something about family. I would not go through all this in detail, but given that some colleagues have also highlighted the right and the child, that they both have parents and that they must have a father, that they should quote this principle to you, it is the fourth principle that a child and his mother should be given special protection, even before the birth of a child. So the child and the mother. And in the sixth principle that a child in the tenderest years can only be exceptionally separated from his mother. Thus, children and mothers enjoy special protection. I would like to say, in fact, that in the last ten years we have been following a particular thought on how to interfere with the autonomy of women's rights. And I'm sure that the marriage that was passed last year was one of those interventions. However, I would like to say that I am a proponent of the position that the state must create conditions and allow conditions for all to be equal and then monitor the implementation of certain procedures that enable them. Or if I say more simply, I say that all women must be entitled to such assistance, regardless of their marital status or the like. And I say that there is no need for any commission to decide whether a single woman, who is perhaps even fertile, is entitled to such assistance or not. Because it's hard to imagine what criteria they're going to take in this decision. At the same time, I would say that it is a kind of diversion when a single fertile woman is denied the right to an artificial insemination. A married, fertile woman who saves only the infertility of a male partner, we guarantee and tolerate this right 100 percent. Where is the woman's autonomy and equality here respected? So if she's single, she doesn't have that right. The moment he has a male partner with him, that right is 100 percent guaranteed. If this isn't a hoax and, I'll say, an act of individual rights autonomy, then I don't know what else we could actually find here and say. So much for that, but if it's necessary, I'll be in the replica later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you. The Replica has a magician. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I'd like to replicate and re-emphasize this. We do not oppose the text of the law in force. So either a married couple or an unmarried couple or an extramarital community. So we don't get along the wrong way. I would also like to stress once again, telling Mr Merle that we are now talking about those single women. Because this is the subject of amendments to this law. For extramarital communities, we have a marriage. And, as I have already pointed out, with the law in force, we have not reduced any rights. It is true, however, that new discoveries in the field of fertilisation have brought new challenges and new questions. And with this law, as it was passed, solutions were given. You emphasize children's rights. That's exactly what we're stressing. The children's rights are first. The best he can do is point out that he has both parents, that he has healthy circumstances for life, that he has good, that he has better, that is the principle of law. Nor do we have the principle of family policy that it should be one-partner. As good as possible. And we've made the perfect family the best possible. It's just that things happen in life that prevent this, but that's what happens in life. So either an old man dies or something. I said, however, that any practice in advance is to do so by means of a law adopted by the State, which does not apply to the city. You're talking about women's rights. The Constitution does not speak of women's rights, it speaks of citizens' rights. And I've pointed out earlier where these are roles of men, where these rights of men are relative to a child and the right of a child to a man. No, they're out of this context. And this law legally states that it is not lawful to identify a father, not allowed, officially does not have one and cannot obtain one. That's it. You're also underlining without a commission. Then we'll go down a dead end if we even discuss the law and the possible amendments. We'll go all the way down a dead end, into anarchy. And then maybe we'll say, and we'll fix the law. Ladies and gentlemen, such matters cannot be fixed just like that. So, the law, once again, is not suitable for admission. Not according to a rapid procedure, because there are no reasons, of the three I have mentioned, for the needs of the country, for natural disasters and so on, to be enforced in this way. I really don't. We're breaking the rules of procedure after all. And there's no justification here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u189	I must remind you that we have adopted this at the beginning of the meeting, by which procedure the individual law will be dealt with. Member Brančič Stanislav, Franci Rokavec and then a replica of Danica Simšič also have the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listened more to my colleague Simšič's discussion, I felt like we now have a veterinary law and, of course, a veterinary medicine. You know, we're talking about a law that is the primary treatment for infertility. Healing. And in no way can we compare all single women with couples, with the most common case in this treatment that a man is infertile and with these procedures is therefore this treatment received by this couple in order to have children. Your conclusion was that we were in the artificial fertilization law. I felt like we were talking about veterinary and, of course, about this area. I'm sorry, but that's how it sounded.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I'd like to replicate Mrs. Simsich's brief. In particular in the statement, and this was said to have already been another indication that the so-called "conservative majority" of last year supported the law on the treatment of infertility and the procedures for artificial fertilisation with biomedical aid. I, Mrs Simšičeva, would only ask you and the others who have stated here that you would obtain an extract of the vote, by which you will find that this is absolutely not true and that Members of the parliamentary group who are proposing amendments to that law have also voted for this law. Above all, I think that, in this sense, the so-called 'conservative' is also an introduction, including an introduction to the interpretation of this law, a problem in some way to address this law, particularly without political motives and political foreshadow. I think we should give the profession a seat here in the first place. Here, as we can see, however, the profession in this area was so well-elected in the home work body. The amendments also do not address the very well-founded comments made by the secretariat on legislation. Here I would once again suggest that all Members in this House do not lower the price of this House and realize that in some way by forcing fast procedures we also produce bad solutions in the final adoption of laws. Therefore, once again the possibility is also presented by the proposal of our Group of Members. Only if we take the time and have a reasoned discussion of all the reasoned comments of one and the other parties in this law will we be able to prepare quality solutions. Otherwise, I think we're doing a bad job. Also for questions that have been raised by the proponents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you. Member Danica Simšič has a replica of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, once again, Mr Vice President. First of all, gentlemen who object to the speedy procedure for the adoption of the law. Mr Vice-President has already said that the law is placed on the agenda according to the procedure defined at the time of the adoption of the agenda. If we were then to oppose and vote on a different procedure, fine. This moment, of course, a change of procedure is not possible and I think it is a waste of time to discuss this and to mislead us and the public. Then we'll go on. I ask my colleague Drobnič, which law or legal act of the Republic of Slovenia defines the complete family and in which imperfect family? As far as I know, Slovenian legal order - perhaps some other legal order separates perfect and imperfect families - but Slovenian legal order, as far as I know, knows single parents, two-parent families or different forms of family, which are completely equal. Even in the resolution on the basis of family policy adopted in 1994, if you wanted to quote it, we do not know the complete or imperfect family. And one more thing. If we want to discuss now how someone understood someone and how Mr Brenčič understood my debate on discrimination against the situation of the same woman in a different legal state; if he understood this as a contribution to the veterinary law, of course it is his way of understanding, his ability to understand and his different views on individual issues. It's his business, and I have no right or right to interfere. However, I would like to say that the profession itself, a wide variety of professions, has repeatedly argued about what is sterility or infertility. Is this just a medical category or something? Is it just reckless childlessness or something? Unnecessary childlessness because you can't have a child unwittingly, so that we can get along. Medicine insisted that infertility was merely a medical category. In my view, solving this issue is not merely medical. If she persisted, of course, she must now bear the consequences of this insistence and cooperate in solving this issue. I mean, trafficking in seeds and eggs is not a medical category, but medicine does. Maybe a man could find another case. I would repeat once again, so that other colleagues may understand me, I do not understand and will never understand the discrimination of a single woman who is conditional, partially fertile or fertile and must not have the opportunity to assist in fertilisation with biomedical assistance, while her peer, who has the right to do so, has the right to do so. We don't cure female infertility. We treat the consequences of male infertility if we can call it treatment. So is my understanding and understanding. However, I would like to say that I think that if we succeed slowly, we will bring this general debate to an end, then we will continue by deciding on individual articles or individual procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following Members applied for the replica: Silva Crnugelj, Alexander Merlo, France Cukjat, and Ivan Mamić applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. For I am asking my colleague Drobnič and, of course, all the other members of the National Assembly, if they have accidentally asked themselves why it is only or most of the time that only men are discussing this issue today. More or less, very few women, Members, discussed this. And when he wonders how he feels about the man’s side, does he also consider that this part, when he claims that it is not clearly defined in this law, might be defined in another. And I deeply hope that medical science, as it has shown so far, will show its extraordinary vitality, even in the case of a potential pregnant man, such as Elizabeth Bedintiere, in the philosophical debate, show, show and allow this to be done. I strongly hope that medicine will progress this way and that in five, 10 or maybe three years from now, we will also consider this option here in the National Assembly and that women will be so much more active in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you. Replo has a member of Parliament, Alexander Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna repeat it one more time. I mentioned last year, now that Mr Brenčič has touched veterinary medicine again, I think that this is the part of medicine that all doctors highly appreciate. I must point out that everything we know in this area today, we do, and we know how to work, has grown on the veterinarians and they are the ones who have been plowing the ice. That's why I wouldn't compare myself to them on the second level, but I wouldn't underestimate them because we have them as colleagues in Parliament. But to Mr. Petty Officer, I would just say that this is about these single women, that it's just part of it. In fact, this second part, which is now being adopted further, is an extremely important part. When we adopted this law last summer, we noticed that the fear that was with the composition of the commission was the part of a law that can paralyze the adoption of the law. I'm afraid that's what happened. With this unfortunate committee, we didn't actually do anything. To this day, the story has not changed much since then. And that if we don't have this commission, there will be potential abuses. I have already advocated a democratic approach when each centre has its own, just as a commission, but a mini, some home commission, not to say so with the human face where it would come, say, a woman or an infertile couple to one interview, where they would be familiar with all the pluses and minuses of these matters, but certainly not like one state commission, when you know how difficult it is for you to not say "with farmers" to come to Ljubljana, already so hard and it will be some commission where "urbi et orbi" will explain whether you are capable of something, whether you can get something or not. This approach of the periphery to the centre has been a little distant for the peripherals. And why did I defend it? Because I say this: I always mention that I respect the knowledge, ability and ethics of the Slovenian doctor, but unfortunately we have been through this last year, when we talked about these matters, we have experienced that even in our fields, experts have expressed scepticism to our doctor, despite having all the levers, from the medical room which controls very precisely, very precisely the work of doctors, and, however, what needs to be mentioned today is that every doctor who works ethically also has a license that the Medical Chamber can also take away from him. In short, I do not see a hero in the medical line who would go to work something against the rules of the profession; but that today the supervision is placed at the chamber, these committees are controlling the work of the doctor, and the other, even in this work must be very accurate, here twice because it is a very sensitive area. I'm counting on you to determine today when you're dealing with genetic material very easily with DNA, any possible malformations, even professionally then prove it, and you can also pursue it legally. That is how I think we have also expressed these concerns about the possible abuse of mistrust with the Slovenian doctor. But I have to admit, as far as I know them, it's mostly about honest people who work hard their whole lives, and I don't think that's what's happening to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. One moment, please! Member Janez Kramberger has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Since the hour is approaching six, I think we are not even able to finish the first reading because the colleagues who have been reported are still and probably also Mr Minister would like to respond, so I would like to make a procedural suggestion that, at the end of the two harmonisation amendments to the veterinary law should be adopted, and at least this point in point 5a would be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. That procedural proposal to end this point and to complete the veterinary point, I shall put it to the vote. Who's up for that? One moment, please, we're already voting. This, please, wasn't a vote because something went wrong here or I did something wrong. So we are voting on a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal is to end the point we have now discussed, the artificial fertilisation with biomedical aid and to close the veterinary point. Please, let's make this clear. 54 Members are present. 28 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 22.]] I'm guessing we'll continue with the veterinary point. We're moving on to the 5th A-points of the agenda, that's the third defensively proposed Veteran Law. Please let me finish this, and then we will proceed with procedural proposals. [[The voices in the background.]] Okay. Procedurally. The message of the Flower of the Horatio.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. I don't think there'll be any mistakes for the colleagues who suggested it. Our proposal is to complete both points, complete the veterinary and complete this point, this law. Please put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u203	I'm making a motion for a vote. We're voting. There are 49 Members present, for 27, for 14. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against the 14th.]] When we're done with this point, we'll continue with the fertilization point with biomedical aid. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u204	Procedural proposal to terminate the law on the treatment of infertility and start with the veterinary law. We are voting on this again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u205	I don't know why we would vote again if we had voted on all this, respected colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of the conclusion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the harmonisation amendments. You received the material of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today on the bench. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 8. Please let us vote. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still have an amendment to Article 102. We're voting. There are 48 present. For 34, against no one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still have a full vote on the bill. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members are present. 38 for, versus 5. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We have an additional decision, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should provide information to the National Assembly on the financial rights of the implementation of the law for users of veterinary services. Anybody want to talk? Please, Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u206	I am opposed to this decision because it seems to me that it is completely over time and because, in principle, the conclusions with which something is imposed on the government cannot be accepted, because the government has its powers as well as the national assembly. The financial consequences of the law must be dealt with before the law is passed and must be one of the grounds for the adoption of the law. I therefore suggest that you do not support it, because I will not support it either, because it will mean one of the conclusions that will be adopted just as it was at the previous item in the agenda, and I would not go back now. Because I accidentally missed it, I couldn't get back to you. For two reasons, this decision is unacceptable. For the first time, because we should have seen these consequences before we went into marriage. But we know the law is necessary, so I guess that's something that's been overlooked. And secondly, because we don't have the authority to tell the government what to do. We can propose to the government, recommend or otherwise. In the past, however, the National Assembly has recommended many things to various governments. But they were only rare, if any. I object to this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you. The Committee proposed an additional decision. We vote on an additional decision. There are 52 Members and Members present, 5 to 37. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 37.]] No additional decision was taken. This concludes this agenda item and brings us back to the previous point. Please. Is that possible procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u208	Yes, please, if I may procedurally. We demand an hour's rest because we need to consult.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u209	I would like to inform my fellow Members and colleagues of the following. The replica was supposed to have mags. Janez Petty Officer. The debater is supposed to be Ivan Mamić and France Tsukati. However, I think Mr. Minister will be in touch as well. Now, please, what do we do? Excuse me? [[...]] [[Consultation]] [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! Don't go there for a word fight. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I can see that there is no understanding of normal work, I am concluding today's session. Thank you very much. Another notice for tomorrow. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with just interrupted 5.d point, then 3rd point, then 5b point and orderly order. We'll skip point 5.c because the parent's working body is not ready yet. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Good night.
