ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u1	Nice greeting to all those of you who have already come to the hall. But I also invite others to come so that, as we are accustomed to, we can begin at an hour's notice. We'll start the 11th session of the National Assembly. We have a number of agenda items ahead of us, so it would be extremely useful to start as soon as possible. Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. It's a few minutes past 2:00. I propose that we begin the 11th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I convened this 11th meeting on the basis of Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Allow me to inform you of colleagues and colleagues who are detained and cannot attend. These are colleagues and colleagues: Lavrich, Kangler, Trophynik, Dr. Gaber, Mag. Spending from 4.30 p.m. on, Gračner, Delak and for the beginning of the meeting I see colleague Školč and colleague Mojet among us. I'll say hello again! I suggest we find out if there's a presence in the hall. I'm asking for peace. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Once again, we will have to determine the presence; if we do not find out in another attempt, we will have to give 15 minutes of rest, so I will wait for a moment, but not for long. I think it's right to stick to the clock, because it shows respect for those who stick to it. Once again, I'm picking up a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key, colleagues and colleagues. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 48 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I welcome all of us, including the state secretaries, who will replace them, members of the government, in their rightful absence. Before the agenda is set, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 9th meeting. The log is available in the computer network. Does anyone require a change, a supplement, or another comment? I note that this is not the case and that we can move on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We are voting on the proposal to adopt the minutes. We're in the middle of a vote. 52 Members and Members are present. 44 supported them, no one objected [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th session. You received the proposal by reference to 11th this month. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. In this respect, we will first move on to proposals for withdrawal. I do not have written proposals to withdraw the agenda item. My friend Anderlich. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Anderlich, if you'll just wait for the hall to calm down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u2	The emissary club discussed the agenda. In view of the fact that a number of points have been transferred from the meeting over the past period and that it has also been understood at the meeting of the College last week to be included in this meeting, that is, in December only those points which will be prepared, which will have all the necessary elements for consideration, including, of course, the opinion of the Secretariat, and in particular the opinion of the Government and the report of the home working body. For this reason, we believe that the points which are not so prepared would not contribute to the effective functioning of the Assembly in the coming days, as far as is still available for this year's regular meetings of the National Assembly. In the event that any points that would have been necessary would not have been carried out by 20th, as envisaged, it is still possible that the 21st meeting will also be convened, and in this sense also the proposal to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This was a unanimous proposal that was adopted in our Parliamentary Group. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that we withdraw points which do not have the opinion of the secretariat and which do not have the report of the parent working body until now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you, Comrade Anderlich, to tell you what points these are. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u4	Mr. President. On all the items on the agenda, the Secretariat gave its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u5	Please, or repeat it again, I don't think all your colleagues and colleagues have heard well. You said the secretariat gave its opinion to all items on the agenda. Thank you very much. I ask whether they want to propose a procedural decision or a proposal to withdraw points from the agenda from the words of the Group of Members. Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Can I ask you in this sense, colleague Anderlich, to tell you which points you propose to withdraw?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u6	Following the draft agenda we received would be this, and where it is stated that there is no opinion, this would be the 18th item of the agenda, although [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u7	17.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u8	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Although I think that's the opinion so far. Then they are the 20th and 21st items of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u9	So, if I understand correctly, colleague Anderlich, you suggest we remove agenda items 20 and 21 from the agenda. Excuse me? Please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. I suggest that we do not decide to move the 20th item from the agenda. The Agriculture Committee has just concluded its meeting and will continue it tomorrow. We already have this meeting in four sequels, and I think the meeting will be closed tomorrow and we will be able to prepare a report. Since this bill should already be completed, I propose that it remain on the agenda and that the National Assembly decide on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word on the proposal to withdraw the 20th and 21st points? Yes, he does. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I note with great surprise that there are two points among the proposals to withdraw from the agenda, including a motion for a resolution on the situation of Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, other than Slovenians in substitution. I do not know what has helped this, but the fact is that we are in the week or at a time when our government is wooded to the signatures of all possible and impossible international agreements, which, according to the majority of Members, are bad for this country. At the same time, I see that the leading party underestimates the position of Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, who are our best ambassadors in the world. This is an inconsequential question for them, which can be delayed indefinitely, while we know how the world’s diaspora is being dealt with by neighbouring countries, what concern they are devoting to their people around the world, what they are willing to do. Last but not least, I am not surprised that in the world, better ambassadors, that they are first admitted to NATO, first in a better position, despite the real bad situation, are in a better position then on the admission scale to the European Union. I think that such a policy of liberal democracy, which underestimates Slovenians around the world, is totally unacceptable and is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u13	Allow me to interrupt for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u15	Please, please, please, please, please, First and foremost, I ask for peace in the hall! Every word given shall have the right to be heard, as well as in the case of Comrade Barovic, who asked for it next.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I am speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party which opposes the withdrawal of the 21st point, i.e. the motion for a resolution on the situation of Slovenians, for a simple reason. A large number of professionally trained and political colleagues participated in the preparation, the resolution went through several substantive readings, cleansings, and in our opinion, as well as in the opinion of many Slovenians, whom we have visited and presented with a resolution, are fit for adoption. On the contrary, they would suggest that it should be included among those points which could certainly be dealt with reliably at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. This was the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Mr Anderlič will further explain the reasons on behalf of the LDS Group and then to his colleague Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u18	At the outset, I made it clear in no doubt that this proposal is purely of procedural nature and, above all, of follow-up to the college agreement. This was not my proposal for a college, but it was the proposal of the other members of the college to treat the rules of procedure strictly if things are not ready - and believe me, Mr Jerovšek and others, that the point which is expected to be dealt with by our working body only Thursday will be very difficult to prepare for adoption in this week. However, we have several laws relating to the implementation of the 2002 budget, to the urgent needs of the functioning of the country, and of course it would be right, and such an agreement would also be on the college that it will be. As I understood that discussion there and as it was in the magnetogram, the agenda was to be drawn up in this way. It wasn't, so I'm procedurally suggesting it, and it's totally overstepping the search for any conspiracies or any other things. It is only a proposal of a procedural nature that these things, which are prepared, be treated in a qualitative manner within the time limit available to us and all others to be considered at the first next meeting when they are ready. Otherwise, we would have no rules of procedure, we would have no work programme and, of course, no priority, and there would be no requirement for working bodies to prepare materials for the meeting as is done, of course. Only such a proposal was designed on our part and nothing else. Of course, we can also take a different path, just as we often do sadly to deal with things in a congregation that are not prepared, and they take too much time for those things that we should deal with because of the need of the country. Since we have only a 20th-month limit for this assembly to work, it would be right to deal with those things that are necessary for the functioning of the country. Here is the pension law, here is the interest law, here are some other things that the government has also proposed as a priority, and so we have drawn up a proposal for a agenda. But if, of course, ambitions are different, fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u19	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, colleague Bernik, rapporteur or representative, president of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All hail, ladies ministers and escorts. Because I just came from another session, the Finance Committee, I didn't bring the agenda with me, and I'm sorry that I'm only doing this now. I was actually shocked by what colleague Anderlich said. I don't think it's someone, I'd say, a conspiracy or anything, but it's stupidity. In fact, when we evaluate various things and what should be on the agenda and what should be released, it seems to me that some values should also be taken into account. If a person thinks about how the government has stalled with the proposal to assume the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks and we have to get this thing through at the end of the year, and other things that must also be met with a certain time and similar, it seems to me that withdrawing this point is totally inappropriate, completely unjustifiable and is also a very beautiful journey and Christmas gift to our people around the world. Since, after all, this resolution has been discussed at several meetings of our Commission, it has received the full support and it seems to me that there is not much more to add to this, unless someone wants to improve this matter. It would also be advisable if someone had such an idea. So I ask that we do not do this to put this item off the agenda, because it is ultimately the Slovenians who are just as part of this nation as we are sitting here. And I appeal to all Members to take this seriously and to vote against it. Against getting the point out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer of the committee responsible, I ask the President for his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! The resolution that we have drawn up in ten years on the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world was prepared within about four months. Representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture participated intensively. Then we discussed the resolution when it was prepared by the Commission, and the Commission, as a proponent, prepared the point as such. What Mr Anderlič says will only be dealt with by the Commission on Thursday must, for these formal reasons, address the position of the secretariat for legislation, which has already been given. The Secretariat has no comments, but it only has a proposal to identify either a shorter or a longer title to the resolution itself, and this is all about the substantive comments. It seems very important to me to say that we have all concluded that all the changes that have been made to the resolution have been adopted unanimously. This means that there was so much debate that the applicant had the opportunity to explain any change in detail. And, of course, those who had thoughts, including their concerns. Finally, we are all changes, whatever has happened and all the conclusions of this Commission have been adopted unanimously. I, of course, also wanted to propose later in the procedure to determine the treatment of this resolution, i.e. from day to hour. I wanted to suggest that this would be Friday at 10 a.m., because this time is about to come to many of our relatives from the suburbs and around the world. At the upcoming Christmas and New Year's holidays, it would be a nice gesture, a nice message to all of our fellow citizens who live in the world. That is why, of course, I appeal to Members and Members not to support the withdrawal proposal, because of course this would also have a negative effect in the context of the upcoming holidays, when our Slovenians are at home. Even something else I propose, and I believe that the media would sum it up, so whoever wants and can, of course, invites so much on the balcony and monitors the adoption of the resolution. In view of this unified position in this resolution, I expect it to be adopted by a large, large majority or even unanimously, as it was on the Commission. Once again, I ask that this point not be removed from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to clarify its position? Otherwise, all the business options will be exhausted. [[No, no, ……]] Then I inform you that the SLS Group requested a 15-minute recess before the first decision. We will decide whether to withdraw the 20th point and the 21st point. Every single one of them. On the proposal of the SLS Group, I therefore allocate 15 minutes of rest. We'll continue for 15 minutes until 3 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u24	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. We are in the middle of a debate on the draft agenda. Before the vote on the motion to withdraw the 20th item of the agenda, we will determine the presence in the Chamber. I'm asking for peace. We will first determine the presence, then I will invite a representative or head of the SLS Group to tell us what has been said at the meeting of the parliamentary group, if he so wishes, and then we will vote; explanations of vote at this point or in this vote are not possible; they may be fully in the vote on the agenda. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 68 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the State Assembly is adjourned. Does your colleague want a word like that? Please, you have the floor, you requested a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would suggest that, in accordance with the procedure, I should like to give the floor to the proposer of the said procedural proposal, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u26	My friend Anderlich, you suggested a withdrawal. But you're withdrawing that request?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u27	I think we need to separate these points that are. It was clearly concluded that the opinion of the secretariat now exists at 21st point, and this was not the case at the time of the proposal. In particular, it was agreed that all those acts, laws relating to the start of the 2002 financial year, the National Assembly should be given priority and, therefore, within the time limit still available, so this week, and that work should be organised in such a way as to be possible; the rest should be prepared in a qualitative manner so that they could be adopted when possible. In this sense, I am amending the proposal that the proposed withdrawal is only 20 points and not 21 points.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. So, colleague Anderlič insists on the proposal to withdraw the 20th point, not the 21st point. On the proposal to withdraw the 20th point, this is a proposal for a feed law, we will now vote. Please. There are 74 Members and Members present, 46 of whom have been supported and 25 have not. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw this point, i.e. the 20th item on the agenda, has been adopted. The motions for withdrawal, as I understand it, are gone. This allows us to move on to proposals to expand the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law for the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by war or terrorism and the conditions of guarantee for foreign air carriers. I'll ask for peace once more. Thank you. Does the government want a word? Minister, please. I think someone's turned on in the hall. Someone's got a microphone on. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law for the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by war or terrorism. This is a change to the law that was passed, I think in September, immediately after 9/11, or it was adopted on 28 September, in particular. Therefore, also on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Europe, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the proposal of Adria Airways, has adopted a proposal to extend this law until 31 March, because at that time it has not been possible to reach all matters within the framework of the insurance of these air services. In view of the fact that these events took place, the agreement on the continuation of this law, in the days following the convening of this meeting, we believe that the reasons for the meeting have arisen, which is, I think, the meeting was convened on 11.12. I therefore propose that the National Assembly put this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We will vote on this proposal from the government. We are voting on the government's proposal to expand the agenda. There were 70 Members and Members present, 54 supported by the proposal, 8 opposed. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider that proposal to be the 10th item of the agenda. The Government also proposes that that law be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 53 supported by the proposal, and 6 opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed counterpart, Zmob Jelinčič, submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the takeover law for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes that this bill extend the agenda of this meeting. I ask whether colleague Jelinčič or any other candidate wishes to speak. [[He does.]] He's a friend of mine. Please also substantiate the proposal for a rapid procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u31	Your Honors are here! A while ago, a group of 57 members in this National Assembly expressed the interest of this National Assembly as the legislative branch of the Authority to promote national interest. Thus, some time ago, this group of Members reached out to that material which shows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not done enough to protect domestic economic giants, their competitive position on the domestic market and thus on the foreign market. Accordingly, according to the content of this letter signed by 57 Members, in accordance with developments in the monetary area of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the expected growth rate and thus the economy and employment, or in other respects of the unemployed, we have prepared two protective laws for today's meeting by the Slovenian National Party. And if you'll excuse me, Mr President, I'd like to explain both of you together because you're connected so we won't delay. It is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the takeover law and a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prevention of restrictions on competition. At this point in time, both of these laws are, in our conviction, essential for us to establish in this country the situation that will be manageable and that there will be some kind of synergy from these economic effects. So, until what is at stake in this national assembly and in general in politics should all Members and all representatives of political parties be seated both in governmental ranks and in opposition types. We expected that these laws, which protect the domestic economy and, on the other hand, when it comes to the word of public or social or social interest, of national interest, would prohibit the entry of foreign economists or foreign giants to destroy the Slovenian economy on the Slovenian market. By adopting and, of course, by incorporating both laws, in our view, we would fulfil what Slovenia expects of us in essence. As far as the terms of the hearing of the National Assembly in Slovenia are concerned, we do not see any argument contrary to the speedy process, because Slovenia, the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian government and Slovenian politics have found themselves in the moment where, unfortunately, I will use the grave term here because of the inability of individual politicians in the past to react quickly today. We believe that this is justified and sufficient reason for this national assembly to make a positive decision when it comes to the adoption or decision to include these two points and to show that we have something of national interest, especially when we are protecting ourselves in the field of the economy. But everything, we know, is happening around the economy. Both laws are more or less linked to the signatories or to the contents of the list signed by 57 Members, thereby demonstrating their right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u32	Before giving the word forward, I would ask once again that, as much as possible, inevitable dedications should be carried out quietly and not disturbed by speakers. The proposer proposes that we therefore hold a debate, and I think this makes sense, on both proposals for a law to be put on the agenda together and we will decide on both separately. Any of the MPs want a word? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. What's the government's position? The government has no views? Okay. Then I conclude the debate. So we have two proposals. Does the proposer want another word? Yes, you have that option. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you for your understanding and for allowing me to come to the floor again. I may have been careless in my opening remarks in the section, and I forgot to mention that both of these laws, which we are proposing in the Slovenian National Party to the National Assembly, take account of the economic legal order and, in particular, we are going to protect ourselves on the basis of the German economy. Therefore, let me also tell those who, in their decisions, are particularly concerned about the coherence of Slovenian legislation with the so-called European legal order, that it is not a matter of concern to them, because the dictions are taken literally from the German legal order. And if this type of protection has been decided in Germany, I am sure that this is an additional argument that we can also choose such protection in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u34	We are therefore moving on, colleagues and colleagues, to decide on the proposal that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on takeovers should be placed on the agenda of the 11th session. We are voting on this proposal. Excuse me? I'm calling off the vote. You wanted a word? You can't do this, there is no explanation for the vote in this proposal, and you can vote on the agenda as a whole. As a parliamentary group, you will have this opportunity and I will also ask if anyone wants a word. I therefore invite my colleagues and colleagues once again to vote on the proposal to put this item on the agenda. 69 Members and Members were present, 20 were in favour, 37 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority. We will now decide on the proposal to include on agenda 11 a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the competition law. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present, 13 were in favour of such a proposal and 42 were against it. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposal for extension did not receive the necessary majority. I have not received any other proposals for enlargement. Then we can move on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws in a fast procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prescribed interest rate, late interest and basic interest rates. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. I ask the government, does this proposal want to justify it? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. I ask the President or the rapporteur whether he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. I don't see any interest in that. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 69 Members and Members attended, 49 supported by the proposal, 8 opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal proceedings for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] So we can move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. I put such a proposal to the vote. 68 Members and Members were present, 51 were in favour and 6 were in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of infrastructure and other facilities at border crossing points for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat Representatives of the parliamentary groups? There is no debate, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We are voting on this proposal. 65 Members and Members present, 50 supported by the proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. For the period 1994-2003, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[No, no, ……]] We can therefore move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We are voting on this proposal. There were 58 Members and Members present, 41 of whom were in favour of such a proposal, 6 opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 17 t.m. Submitted a proposal for the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Fund for Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence by means of a rapid procedure rather than a reduced procedure, as proposed in the submission of a proposal for a law. You received a letter from the government. I'm gonna call off the session in a minute. I'm asking for peace. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports such a proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? They want the word of the parliamentary group? [[They don't want to.]] That is why we can decide on this proposal. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 57 supported them, 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of short-term laws. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I give my word to the parliamentary groups. Yes, Comrade Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So the government has submitted a law on amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance. One year later, we passed the law on pension and disability insurance, the last amendment, a scandalous change that took over the pensioners over 40 billion tolars. The government had time to prepare, as quickly as possible, a change, for we planned precisely and predicted what would happen. So she waited a year. Now he's putting the law into short notice. She's always in a hurry. But that's why she's in a hurry because she's waiting first so she can hurry. This is like a poorly organised Yugoslav army. We don't agree with this procedure. And we don't want bad changes to come into this law. And it is precisely those changes that were adopted at the time that are being proposed again. It's kind of vague. So this is a serious reminder to this government that it does not think carefully, does not think professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Does he want to present his views to any of the other parliamentary groups? Yes, please, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Parliamentary Group of Young Slovenia, we believe that the harmonisation of pensions with salaries is too important a topic for the law governing this matter to be adopted in a reduced procedure. We will therefore vote against it because it is our opinion and the law to be adopted in a normal manner, because it is too complicated with these salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Would any of the members of the group like a word in order to present their views? I guess not. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Regardless of what may be a major change, we should say something. These changes are essentially without prejudice to the system. They are the result of much coordination with other legislation, because we believe that it offers an opportunity on the basis of the formal salary, thus giving the possibility of a reduced procedure on the basis of a commercial salary. On the other hand, I think that the content of this law is even more important. Indeed, there are reasons for the content that the amendment should be implemented with 1.1. as a result of tax reliefs. If we do not do so, then we have essentially missed an extra, voluntary pension insurance year, which would be a huge loss. Secondly, we must do so also because of the transitional provisions relating to the gradual rise in age. With regard to the coordination of pensions, I would say that we are actually following what has already been given before the Constitutional Court as an initiative to ensure that things in the law are systematically put on the table so that we do not have methodology. And so we follow exactly what the Constitutional Court can say, and we consider it important. Otherwise, we are not making any significant changes in coordination. And I have to say that the delineation that we were talking about, about 40 billion, actually, is not true, this number isn't like that. There was a lot of talk about it, so I wouldn't lose my words again. It is important that the law enters into force 1.1. Transitional provisions are also such. In short, if we miss this deadline, we think we've done a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u40	I conclude the debate on the proposal to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance following a reduced procedure. Before we move to a decision, I should like to point out that the draft law will not be adopted after a reduced procedure if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Please let us vote. There's no explanation for the voice here. Comrade Peterle, this can only be done when voting on the agenda as a whole. Let's vote! 65 colleagues and colleagues are present. 52 voted in favour of such a proposal and 8 opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public roads. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. I would like to invite a representative of the government to justify such a proposal. He doesn't want to. The parent labour body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm asking if he wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude this debate and also point out that in this case we have a decision on the proposal for a reduced procedure. This will not be accepted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote! 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 50 supported them, 7 opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand he's been accepted. A group of Members with a first-signed counterpart, Zmob Jelinčič, submitted a bill amending the Road Traffic Safety Act for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does Comrade Jelinčič want a word as a proponent? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I judge, not just me, but in the Slovenian National Party, that matters that we are changing are so important that they need to be taken up in a reduced procedure. In essence, it is only two amendments to this law, which do not interfere with transport safety, but clarify the uncertainties that can only lead to police being able to possess certain competences that can put pressure on citizens and also restrict their freedom. The fact is that we are convinced that, in the case of this law and amendment, it is not only about correcting this basic law, but it is about correcting something that could fall within the framework of human freedoms and violations of human freedoms. I think we can say more in the law itself, but I think it makes sense to make the decision as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. The parent labour body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Then we can decide on the proposal, even in this case. We decide on a proposal for a shorter procedure. If at least 1/3 of the colleagues present object, the proposal will not be adopted. We decide on the proposal. Please vote. The Court is attended by 65 Members and Members. There were 54, 3 opposed to the proposal. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. The National Assembly is considering a proposal to adopt a proposal for a fast-track procedure for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks, a proposal for a feed law, which has been withdrawn, i.e. the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks has already been decided at the 10th meeting, so there is no need to re-decision on this. Since the National Assembly decided at its 11th extraordinary meeting that the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the taxation of salaries paid would be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to this proposal for a law which is included in point 6 of the agenda may be tabled until the beginning of the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. So, we're done deciding all the elements of the agenda. And now we can put the draft agenda to a full vote. I saw two hands. He's a friend of mine. So am I opening a debate or do you want a word in the agenda? That's the explanation for the voice. Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u43	There is usually a whole bunch of so-called European legislation at the meetings of the National Assembly. So those laws that Slovenia is supposed to bring closer to the European Union or to European integration and, on the other hand, Slovenian citizens and citizens are being pressured by some new standards. And then once, throughout the year, the National Assembly meets the reverse position, i.e. the position that we would accept or consider a proposal that would protect us, the Slovenians in Europe. No, then this national assembly says: no, but we will not even deal with it, let alone accept it. Personally, I think that it is a sad enough situation for the other Members of the Slovenian National Party that we cannot give our support to the adoption of the agenda of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. Think again about all those Members who have the right to decide in this quorum: it is worth supporting the agenda, which is actually the agenda for foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič wishes to explain his vote before the decision, then Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, the Slovenian National Party has proposed two laws to protect Slovenian national interests. Once again, the ruling coalition under the leadership of Mr Drnovska has proven to be firmly committed to the European Union and against Slovenia retaining any autonomy, even in the economic field alone. Both proposed laws are essentially identical to the laws of the European countries protecting their own interests. Neither the Italians, nor the English, nor the Germans, nor the French, nor the Belgians, nor the Danes, nor anyone else in the European Union, allow their own interests to be violated. Slovenia is preparing to be a slave country in which Slovenians will be alone and only workers, not workers, workers, workers, who will be able to work quietly and humbly, except of course some politicians, who will also get fat on account of these poor workers. For this reason, because of the shameful decision voted by the majority or voted by three parties: the United List, the Liberal Democracy and the DeSUS, I am ashamed of such decisions by the National Assembly. I hope that fellow journalists or gentlemen of the press will understand the matter and will also present the matter to the Slovenian nation, so that the nation will see how much our government is and how far the ruling coalition is to protect at least that little Slovenian what remains. I will therefore vote against the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My friend Peterle asked me to explain his voice. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues! Who is at least as old as I am will remember from the first years of elementary school an object called beauty. And whoever wrote too fast happened to him at least a few times. And whoever tried to advise this piece of shit, I remember that didn't improve the beauty score. Last year, such a mess in the form of a Christmas card happened to the pensioners to the government. This year, he wants to betray this package, and from the words of the government representative, we have come to understand that correction is necessary. I would also like to remind myself that we have not only asked, proposed, demanded, and warned the government not to do so in haste. I will, in principle, oppose such a agenda, because again, about such sensitive things concerning hundreds of thousands of Slovenians, he acts again in haste. At that time some applauded, one year later they no longer applauded and I would not like to share as a Member the responsibility for such decision-making and join those who send Slovenian pensioners another Christmas card. That was the time, ladies and gentlemen, long ago, and I do not think it is appropriate that such important matters should be decided in a notable policy of time distress. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek will explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will also vote against such a draft agenda for the reason that we are, in fact, under pressure from Members in order not to apply the 82nd Article of the Constitution, which provides for the free decision of Members. I think we have been under unheard of pressure by the Prime Minister this week, and despite such pressure, we have not adopted a proposal to be able to discuss reasonably the acquisitions and those two laws proposed by my colleague Pece. I think that this debate is extremely important at this point, and I expected the government to propose and support this proposal on its own. Indeed, we must go into privatisation or in these matters, transfer of this capital to other owners, with clear views, with clear terms, with a clear view to the future, what this brings. We haven't poured this pure wine here yet. With regard to the privatisation of banks, a requirement was once adopted for the law to decide. And if this were accepted, today we wouldn't be so divided that everyone would act so strangely together that they wouldn't know what that means. I have to say, yesterday, I have a high-profile, thinking Squirrel from the Maribor area. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u50	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mr President, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u52	Please, Comrade Jerovšek, please continue. But everyone else, just like you're asking for yourself. Please, Comrade Jerovšek. Just as everyone demands for himself to have the right to peace when he speaks, so does his colleague Jerovšek. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for warning me in this mockery that this is an act of misconduct on the part of the Member. But I'll try to keep going. I must point out that yesterday, this time really academically educated, with an academic address, thinking man, moderate, but Slovenian, from the moment I remember him, from the heart and soul, said to me about Banka Maribor and about Banka Koper, but with regard to Banka Maribor: "Now I expect only to actually begin to obey that command: Do this country again Germany." In fact, there is some truth to this. We can't protect ourselves at the borders from such great and, I'll say, greedy entities of our own interest. At this point, however, there is also a bad option that those other owners who have long since died in them - if I look at those who sold Banka Koper. In fact, it is true that they are friends with the President of the State and did not influence them and that this is hypocrisy. And that is why it is so much more important that these laws be dealt with in this national assembly, in order to have a public debate and only on the basis of this, with the knowledge of all Members, without making fun of such serious matters as we are present here - this is a crucial, crucial matter in this country. We are responsible for what will happen to this country in the future. This mindless sale of everything right now and the rush seems illogical to me. When he's here - no matter where he comes from - there's a proposal to be able to talk about it, this majority of them just say no. I'm telling you, this is the most important thing. I don't want to be separated internally when I find out about this decision what the government has decided. But the scandal is that when Members of Parliament express an opinion that they are being attacked to interfere with the economy. Any Member may express an opinion. However, I think it was a matter of meddling policies in the economy when Director Cosmin told us that I don't know how many years he's been working with the Minister, that the Minister was giving direct instructions to an economic operator, and now he's become the director of this economic entity. But here it was - in my opinion, but not just the economy, it was about involving client devices, extremely party-oriented because the party is now directing some minister into a company that will put a monopoly on oil derivatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members? Comrade Barovic, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u55	Yes, thank you very much for explaining your voice. I've checked in on everything before. Firstly, we have only decided on the proposal that these two points on the protection of the Slovenian economy should be placed on the agenda. You don't have to decide that you're up against it. The will that characterizes this national assembly has already proved to be here. If this is submitted by the Slovenian National Party or by any opposition party, we should reject the proposal apriori. That proves everything. Another time. It's not just about the Union Brewery and the light beer, as some people think. And although I didn't believe it until today, from now on I do believe because some people are so afraid that in this case it's just this case that they're afraid that there's going to be a commission. Today I am going to introduce you to another precise, evidentiary example of the occurrence of the interference of foreigners with the Slovenian economy. Thirdly, these two laws will be dealt with sooner or later in this national assembly. Believe this, and even then we will talk about the content in a very different way. I will be on my own against the agenda, because the two proposals of the law for the protection of Slovenia are not worth going to the agenda. And unfortunately, I have to say again what Cankar wrote: "Glad and kneel, only to be comforted and satisfied." I don't know if that's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Comrade Lavrinc asked to explain his voice to the National Assembly. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u57	No, President, procedurally. On the contrary, I believe that you have acted contrary to paragraph 5 of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that it is not possible to discuss the proposals concerning the agenda and explain the vote. I will also say that it seems to me that many have spoken about all things other than the agenda on behalf of the groups of Members. Even then, I doubt that it was right. In particular, as I say, I think you must put to the vote, that you have done wrong, because otherwise we must all be the same and I will explain the voice myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u58	I acted in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Lavrinc. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. The Member and the Member shall have the right or have the right to explain their vote. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u59	You want to ask me where you're reading this? In fact, when I read paragraph 5, it reads: "There is no possibility of debate and explanation of vote on the proposals concerning the agenda." Then he goes on to say that the draft agenda should be adopted in full. To the extent that this is allowed and in some way new to our conduct, of course, I agree with this to be confirmed by Members when they vote on my procedural proposal, and, of course, in this case, I will also take this opportunity to explain my vote myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u60	So, I've done what we've done so far. We have always given the opportunity to give Members or Members the opportunity to explain their views on the vote before the decision on the agenda - not on individual points - at the point of the decision on the agenda in its entirety. Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u61	I disagree with your explanation. I mean, where do you read that at individual points, I read as it is written here, on page 31 of the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u62	"It is not possible to discuss the proposals concerning the agenda and explain the votes." On the proposals concerning the agenda. "After the decisions referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the chairman shall give the motion for a full vote on the agenda..." and this proposal shall be deemed to be the same as any other one, so that his vote may be explained. If anyone wants a word to explain their voice, please ask for it. Comrade Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr President, I asked you to put your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to the vote. I think it's wrong. Other than that, I think there's been a mistake. Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure, pardon, paragraph 7, second paragraph, states when the National Assembly shall work: between December 10 and 20. But you wrote that we will also work on Friday, December 21st; then an extraordinary session is possible if we can discuss all things as it seems.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u64	No, that's not possible. We will discuss this proposal further and we will decide on it, as always, after the agenda has been adopted. I now give my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that, when voting on the agenda, it is possible to fully explain my vote before the vote and only this time. Just a minute. Just a moment, please. We looked into whether the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure [[...]] I shall put the Rules of Procedure to the vote during the meeting. Please identify yourself to her. So 68 colleagues and colleagues voted, 33 accepted my explanation, 30 opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that, as long as there is no more initiative to explain our vote, we are deciding on the agenda as a whole. I think so. I conclude the debate and, colleagues and colleagues, we decide on the agenda as a whole, with all the amendments we have decided before this vote. We are voting on this proposal. 69 colleagues and colleagues were present, 47 were in favour, 20 were against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the assembly has been adopted. May I have your attention, please? At its last meeting, the College discussed the course of the 11th meeting. He found that relatively little time was available for a rather extensive agenda. We have found that the rules of procedure are very precise in determining when vacation time is applicable in the National Assembly. The 21st of December is due at this time, but according to the work plan we adopted at the beginning of the year, it was envisaged that the National Assembly would be sitting. So we must decide today, we have two options for the National Assembly to sit until Friday, until 2 p.m. in a regular session. If anyone opposes this on account of business, I will therefore suggest that he works until Thursday until 19:00 p.m. and finishes his work and then decides on the laws, as required by the end of the year, at an extraordinary meeting. My proposal will be, as we have discussed and exchanged views at the College, to complete today's agenda item of the Initiative and questions of Members and Members to decide on Tuesday at the meeting - Wednesday until 7 p.m., Thursday until 7 p.m. and Friday at the regular meeting by 2 p.m. Please, Comrade Jelinčič, I ask you very briefly to find out how best it would be to make this a procedural proposal. [[...]] On behalf of the Group of Members, please state your views. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is not the position of the Group of Members because you gave me your word earlier. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group to review when and how we have other obligations, I would ask for a 20-minute recess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u66	No, on this proposal, Comrade Jelinčič, no. I don't think there's any reason for that. Please, the others. Comrade Anderlich, would you like a word? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u67	Did you take my word for it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u68	Look. I'm asking for peace in the hall. First, the National Assembly, after adopting the agenda, must determine how it will deal with its obligations at the time of this week when the 21st Rules of Procedure are already overturned during parliamentary holidays. I think it's a good idea for us to make up our minds together. You require 20 minutes of rest for consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u69	Just for advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u70	Comrade Jelinčič, first I will give my word to my colleague Anderlich. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u71	I suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u72	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u73	I propose, however, that we begin to work at this regular meeting and because it is not possible to decide on matters which are clearly set out in business, unless the Rules of Procedure are amended, I propose that, in order to avoid all these complications, we conclude a regular meeting on Thursday evening at 7 p.m. and that those points which will possibly remain unfinished should be required by the Government or the State to begin the 2002 financial year normally are something of this law, so that you can convene an extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly on Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u74	I have already told you in college - please, for the sake of peace of the Chamber - that I will ask him for an opinion on the proposal after which we discussed the course of this meeting. If any of the colleagues and colleagues insist that a business decision on the duration of parliamentary holidays is strictly respected, so will I. Therefore, I cannot help but decide that the National Assembly will conclude its 11th regular meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. and we will convene an extraordinary meeting on Friday, if necessary. Therefore, decision-making on this proposal has also become irrelevant. Colleagues and colleagues! We have thus decided on all the matters necessary for the course of the sitting, unless someone has a different proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the importance of the 21st point of the motion for a resolution on Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia - except for Slovenians living on substitution - and in view of the Christmas time coming, and also given that we have a provision in Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits, the type and extent of these rights and benefits should be laid down by law. Since there is no such law, nor any other direction in this area, and since we have written down and said that the continuing vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia is the preservation of the national identity and identity of the Slovenian people, I propose that item 21 be considered on Thursday at 2.30 p.m. at the beginning of the afternoon session, so that we can also invite or come to Parliament Slovenians who are visiting home in Slovenia, to the balcony and, of course, attend this part of the session. I certainly think it is important to stress that with their help we have also come to self-sustainment. This, of course, can be said by then’s ministers or by the current minister. Believe, colleagues and colleagues, that by considering and adopting this point of the resolution on Slovenians around the world, the way in which we are, as a matter of priority, the Republic of Slovenia, this is the journey of the European Union and the accession to NATO, the adoption of this point and the consideration in this way has also contributed to positive points, as our Slovenians and Slovenians are truly the ambassadors of our country around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. You have therefore heard a procedural proposal that cannot be discussed. The proposal for a resolution point to be considered on Thursday at 2.30 p.m. I also put such a proposal to the vote. Please vote. There are 56 Members and Members present. 20 for, 33 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority. Colleagues and colleagues! Does anyone object that we continue with the point of the parliamentary question and initiative without an otherwise agreed 15-minute break? Can we move on? Who's objecting to this? Objection? No, no, no. Then we can move on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. The ministers and the Prime Minister and the Minister are with us. I welcome everyone. I would like to say that today's meeting has been apologized to by the Minister for Culture, Mrs Andreja Richtar, and will be replaced by the State Secretary, Mr Baskovic and Zorko. The order of questions and initiatives shall be laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Article 23. The first three questions or initiatives put by members of the opposition parliamentary groups are answered by the Prime Minister. President Drnovšek is with us, and I welcome him with us. According to the principle of rotation, the first three questions will be asked this time by colleagues from the opposition parliamentary groups of the Slovenian National Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Young Slovenia Party. First, the question will be raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's vote has shown that the Prime Minister has questioned and successfully silenced at least a majority of those 57 Members who today should not have voted differently against Slovenian national interests. The fact is that it has been happening all the time to pass through the "gage" of the Slovenian government and, Mr. Prime Minister, with your thirst into foreign hands and businesses. Construction operations are being pushed into the arms of Italians, banks will soon be pushed into the arms of those closest to us who once killed us and sent us "to lagers" years ago. In the short term, legislation is being drawn up to allow the pharmaceutical industry to move into foreign hands. And today is what we were afraid of: an attempt by Belgian multinational Interbrew to take over the Slovenian market and Slovenian trade marks. Despite the fact that calculations say that Slovenian brewery holding company would have around a billion German branded traffic after calculations and that the expected profit of 300 to 400 million German brands would still be the government's desire to push this parade horse of the Slovenian economy into foreign hands, shut down the company, destroy the company, throw people on the road, destroy the brand, and in time the Belgian beer Stella Artois, beer Union or later also beer Laško, would have been just an episode of the time when the "good" reigned the largest terror in the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you, Prime Minister: Do you really care so little about Slovenian national wealth? Do you really care that some people are going to get fat in their wallets, and the Slovenes are going to stay poor? Do you really care that Slovenia should hand over all its good things and all its connections, including in other former Yugoslav republics, in order to leave all of this to a foreigner for a small fee? And if it is of interest, your interest to preserve the Slovenian economy: Why don't you try and offer the Belgian buyer a failed Maribor brewery, not sell and offer what is best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. That was a question, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u79	Dear Mr. Jelinčič! Your claims are extremely misleading. It's an extremely cheap demagogy of extreme simplification. And if we accepted it in Slovenia, I think it would be a complete economic and political disaster. First of all, there's a lot of deception, as far as the facts are concerned. The government doesn't decide if we're talking about a brewery. The government is of the view that the rules of the game which we have set up ourselves and which we have also adopted within the European Union must be respected. The rules of the game must be respected. And when it comes to tenders, competitions or competitions or acquisitions, the rules are laid down. And no one can interfere. Not even Members with their signatures or anyone else. That intervention I took last week was given because it gave the impression that one of the potential entrepreneurs with media action, with political pressure, would gain another company, whether it is economically viable or not. In short, probably with some untransparent and worse offer. What I, of course, demand and stand as Prime Minister, when it comes to government, civil servants and everyone else, of course, is that we respect the legality of respect for the rules of the game. And in no sense did we prejudge them, and even today or whenever I would not prejudge who should win such a match: let him who is better fulfill the conditions win. But those that we have set ourselves; by those rules that we have set up ourselves, in a transparent way - not with different pressures, with different action on the side and from below and I don't know where else. This question seems important to me because it seems to me that we are at some important crossroads in Slovenia. If we adopt such a way of acting, such pressures, such a way of deciding, then this leads us to a very bad pattern of political and economic action. It takes us to economic autarcism, to shut down. This leads us to less competitiveness, less capacity for our economy, therefore less jobs and lower standards. This is what people need to be told, not deceived by words about not knowing what takeover or abandonment to strangers and the like. I have already said that Slovenia is one of the countries with the lowest share of foreign investment in the social product, one of the current candidates for the European Union last. And talking about selling out in Slovenia is pure nonsense. We're just on the second extreme. What we want is a few more foreign investments to make economic growth faster, and certainly not to go into a different extreme and sell everything out. So, even in this case, the right measure, which is usually always the answer, and the path that we have taken quite successfully so far. However, it seems to me that in these discussions it is necessary to say that we are actually at some crossroads, including with regard to the attitude towards Europe and the European Union. With this kind of thinking, if we decide on such economic nationalism now, it is best to say that we are not ready to join the European Union. I believe, Mr. Jelinčič, that you don't want to go there anyway. But this is really the issue. And where will our economy be without Europe, without a European market? Today we have almost two thirds of our exports and imports from the European Union, deep integration with the European economy. Does anyone imagine that we can live without it and without further developing competitiveness and the ability to actually fight in these Western markets? Lately, it's been searching for a way out, to show up in the South Squares, and again, it's gonna be some kind of solution. That's not a solution. South markets will be very risky for a long time, and their absorption capacity will be very low, and there is no way that they are going to be able to turn back now; it can be a complement, and it certainly has not replaced the European Union. So these are very serious questions and, of course, we must face them seriously and also answer them when it comes to such deceptions. If anyone accepts such a concept, then it leads us to some extreme patterns, such as the Mechiar policy in Slovakia before, or similar to what we have in North Korea or Cuba, as I once said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask a further question. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, my speech wasn't cheap demagogies, it was yours. And don't hang up political and economic catastrophes in Slovenia where you have already brought Slovenia. The right and right economic indicators talk about this and slowly these real data come into play. Therefore, don't just talk around and think about it, and don't say that the government doesn't get involved when we know that the Slovenian compensation company as well as the capital company is actually a government matter and is in the hands of mainly liberal democracy or a wider, ruling coalition. It is precisely in these two companies that they do not know the term national interest, a term known to the whole world, including the European Union, where you are so wooded. And if you're doing any woodwork, make some sort of protective mechanism. Today, under your directive, they voted against putting such safeguard mechanisms into law as all European countries already have, without exception, all. Therefore, do not talk about less competitiveness, because Austria also wanted to "bassage" under its auspices, and the Austrians set up BBAG holding, which resisted the Belgians very successfully and has its market niche and has its work ahead. However, in accordance with Article 29 - first, I would ask the Prime Minister to answer these questions. However, Mr President, I am asking the Slovenian National Party or myself, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure and its second paragraph, to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the response of the Government, to which we have the right under the current Rules of Procedure. I hope we still have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u83	Well, I have to tell Mr Jelinčič again, of course, that our policy so far has not led to disaster, but vice versa. On the contrary, in all international assessments Slovenia is one of the most successful countries and that we have done the most in the past period in the best possible way, given the real situation of our environment, given the reality of the situation. If not, this already shows the fact that from 1995 to 2000, we have increased our growth by so much that we have reduced our backlog behind the average of the European Union by 8 points, i.e. from 64 per cent to 72 per cent of the European average. So Slovenia developed faster than the European Union and even more than many other countries. In doing so, we have maintained a balanced development in all areas, which is what we are all now recognizing, and even now Slovenia has come to the finish line, including adapting to the European Union, as the most successful of all candidates. Therefore, it is pointless to use the words here as "some economic disaster", while at the same time reducing unemployment, which has reached the lowest rate in the last decade, is now around 6.7%, and as other indicators are comparatively showing an extremely favourable picture. But as for your debate or point of view, we need to clarify what we are talking about. When we talk about taking over the Union brewery, this is something that, of course, has not been affected by the government’s decision. What the government requires is only respect for the rules of the game that we have adopted in the law that we have set ourselves up, and above all transparency, transparency. Because otherwise we are introducing another pattern of economic behaviour and also political behaviour into our system, different from the one we have agreed on, and like the one we are willing to cooperate on. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The representative of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group shall refer to the second paragraph of Article 29. According to him, the discussion is limited to a representative of the proposer who will be given the opening 15 minutes, a representative of the government and representatives of the sending groups: the debate will last for a maximum of 15 minutes, with the exception of a five-minute debate by representatives of the sending groups. First of all, a representative of the proposer. Comrade Jelinčič, do you want a word or someone else? Comrade Peca, you have a maximum of 15 minutes to explain the position of the delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that, at these times, in today's meeting, we are talking about those decisions that will have long-term implications for our country, whether our country is within the limits of today, or whether it should be at your wishes, that is, without borders and without national consciousness. These mistakes that you are making today - and I will stress: you are doing - we will no longer be able to stress. You mentioned earlier to my client colleague that he was running a demagogue. Two times ago, when I had the opportunity to ask you at the Institute of Parliamentary Issues and Initiatives, you also mentioned demagogy. Mr Drnovšek, if the political party disagrees with you if it tells you that there is a different path in this country than you have in your head, that does not mean demagogy. If the political party does not agree with your underlying economic measures, you are well aware of the increase in taxes, the increase in budgetary revenue and expenditure, the disproportionate differences and the wrong macroeconomic policy, this is not demagogy. The Slovenian national party offers a different programme, in our opinion better, and in particular will be reflected in the lives of people, Slovenians in this country and less in the lives of people around our country. Basically, we still have to watch: we are Slovenians, and that is what we will remain. This is the Slovenian Parliament and not the European Parliament. It is said that the European Parliament will be 700 members and that Slovenia will have no percentage of Members. There we will not be able to fight for Slovenian interests. Today and here there is room and place to do something for Slovenian interests. But because you've partly read us the deception. Let me tell you, Mr Drnovšek, in the 17th Article of the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in sales procedures and other forms of state-owned property, it is said that the country must also fall into the operation of the SOD, the KAD and, perhaps, today, the current SRD, as far as the interests are concerned. And that today, the Slovenian National Party has prepared two laws for today's treatment and not only the so-called " Beer War" at this point in Slovenia, because this is just a fraction of the story, they are deeper into these things. They reach deeper and longer. They go there so that we can say that we have also created conditions for Slovenian politicians to operate the Slovenian market or Slovenian companies on our and foreign market to make our companies' fights a success. We need to be aware: only domestic companies have invested the fight back in our country. It is not naive to expect foreigners to take care of our profits. We are confident that every capital owner, especially if he comes from a foreign country, will take more capital with him or place him in a different environment, not Slovenia. And this is the horror that's happening to us right now. You say that you do not have a legal basis, you say that you do not influence the SOD and the CAD with your opinions, you say that you do not interfere with the decisions of the Members of the National Assembly; on the other hand, when you publicly overthrow your Members in Bled and those who worship you. On the one hand, you tell the SOD and the KAD how to manage their assets. And to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. That's not demagogy. We're only trying what you're trying to do. And if you allow, according to what we have said, to the proposal of the so-called competition law, we have resolved or tried to resolve the resulting economic situation in two steps in the Slovenian National Party. So, the first step is the so-called competitive legislation that is in the Republic of Slovenia - we do not want to, but we have to admit - very strict. And on the other hand, much stricter than they know in Western European markets. I have already said something about this in the setting of the agenda, where we wanted these matters to be dealt with today, but unfortunately the Members of the government's parties did not allow it. Our proposal is that if Slovenian companies merge and reach concentration, concentration should be allowed when it comes to public or national interest. In Slovenia it is not only - unfortunately that we do not have it in our consciousness, that is, national interest, which is obviously the policy of this house, but we do not have it even legally defined. So the first step we are offering to this national assembly, to this policy and to this government is to define national interest. If you are not able to do so, we are today giving you, if not otherwise, a law that speaks of national interest. Even more! We are even talking about who identifies the national interest. We're also getting married. We define as the body that manages the boto, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We define qualified candidates. In short, the rules of the game are set to be clear. We lay down the rules of the game in such a way that it is possible to protect the domestic economy. And on the other hand, we are also trying or trying today - unfortunately we failed, we hope that it is not too late - to also introduce the takeover law. As we know, the takeover law is one of the main ones, whether it will be in the area of the transformation of new ownership, foreign, domestic property, but we are mainly going to domestic and domestically reintroduce a new instrument of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are convinced that, on the basis of the regulation I quoted earlier, the government can influence its shares through the SOD and the CAD, I am giving it the authority to prohibit or refuse the entry of foreigners when it comes to national interest. And the national interest, gentlemen and ladies in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that part of the fellow Members and Members of Parliament who are not aware of this, is also that the domestic Gopsodarian giants persist to become even stronger. Because only if they are stronger will they be able to compete in the market we want today. If we go to the markets of the European Union as beggars, we do not expect to succeed there. We will always remain what we went in and that is why the government of the Republic of Slovenia should do everything at this time to protect, but not only protect, enrich the domestic Slovenian economy. Excuse me. You were talking about that success story that you've been listening to for a long time; so, Slovenia - the success story. You mentioned once again that Slovenia is one of the most successful countries, mentioned some coefficients or some indicators that you think are very useful for Slovenia to be extremely rich, extremely developed and extremely comparable to other European countries. Mr Drnovšek, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 - and I will only take this for an easier understanding - we have 125 billion deficits. 125 billion deficits this country has, and I don't know how it hopes you are responsible and wise politicians, what the prime minister is supposed to be, to talk about a successful country - with such a deficit! The matter is about as analogous as if a person went to a convenience store in his wallet and bragged to another buyer about how successful she was. Unfortunately, the Republic of Slovenia, with the government as it has it, is building on a bluff. We do not create demagogies in the Slovenian National Party, we just want to help. And take note of that. Try to convince your part of the Members that it is worth protecting the Slovenian economy, that it is worth reconsidering and supporting the proposal that Mr. Zmago Jelinčič will submit later, i.e. a proposal that has one and an exclusive objective: this is the protection of our Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. This was the position of the applicant, who has 15 minutes of time under the Rules of Procedure to explain his views. They now have 15 minutes of government representatives available. Does the Prime Minister want to answer? Prime Minister, the government is also limited here to a total of 15 minutes. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For a little while longer on this subject. I'll just try to explain how I see the decision in the case that's being made here, if it's specifically about taking over the Brewery Union by the Pivovarna Laško or by the party, in this case we've heard of the Belgian company Interbrew. They clearly decide both funds that are in fact parastatal funds, i.e. capital fund and compensation fund, on who they will sell the shares of the Pivovarna Union which are in their portfolio. What criteria must you take into account in your decision? We have imposed in the laws on them, of course, that they must take into account the interest and objective of their funds: either the development of the pension system or the compensation system, and thus ensure, over the long term, the capacity and liquidity of both institutions to carry out their objectives. So, their goal - we gave them a mandate to get out of this, that is, from these shares that they have, the greatest possible yield, the greatest possible effect, so that these two institutions can act in the best possible way. It's their direction and their mission. So, their task is not now to defend or assess how the brewery industry should develop: either in this way or in another way, or to establish a monopoly in Slovenia, which will then have no competition and will try as such to penetrate elsewhere, or any other option, from which each probably has its own advantage. The second option is likely to increase competition at home and probably even more fresh money in Slovenia. Well, this decision, as far as both funds are concerned, must be a decision which is a better offer. In a transparent game, which we have also defined by regulations, how it must be implemented. And both institutions must therefore decide, in accordance with these rules and in accordance with the interests they are committed to. My intervention, including in the public, with regard to Members' signatures, including other such pressures, has gone in this direction that some media pressure, highlighting different objectives - in this case it is not about interests, not national interests, but about the interests of two private companies, two private groups, two private brewers - so that the pressure on these two institutions is of course not justified, is not consistent, it introduces non-transparent and some other way of deciding into our system, different than we have defined for them. What we need to ensure in our country is that we will respect our rules and, of course, in such and other calls, act transparently and in accordance with the weighting of economic effects and returns, in accordance with the interests of individual institutions. Therefore, the management and supervisory board of the two Funds must weigh the best impact of the offers. So much for the particular case of the brewery. Neither I nor the government have ever defined who should win this contest. So let the one who offers a better offer win. Very simple. However, it turns out that such pressures seek to bring about a victory for those who otherwise offer a worse offer. This is probably because if he makes a better offer, then these pressures are not necessary. [[...]] Then I would have won this contest anyway. That's it. As far as the takeover law itself and possible additions to this law are concerned: if your proposals are such that, in the opinion of the Government, one of them can be taken into account or incorporated into our existing law, we will, of course, examine and assess this. At this stage, of course, the law is, as it is, and must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, do you now wish to proceed with the reply? [[...]] Yeah. Minister, 10 more minutes. Please, Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u89	If you allow, only within this time available would I mention that the part of the discussion that was devoted to the budget and the economic situation has been very simplified. He's not holding and he's trying to show a picture that isn't like that. We did this discussion on the budget, so I wouldn't repeat it. I can only repeat how current the deficit is, and perhaps this should not be specifically pointed out, but we can present data for some other Western European countries that you like to mention: for example, Germany and some others, which have much greater deficit problems and budgetary resources this year. Let me just mention that it is today that the delegation of the International Monetary Fund concludes its visit to Slovenia. We also had a press conference on this. And also experts from the International Monetary Fund have confirmed once again what the Prime Minister here made very clear: that in our case, regardless of how you dislike it, obviously for a country that is the most successful among transitions. That the measures that we have proposed, regardless of whether we have received such criticisms, are essentially true, as regards the two-year budget, as well as the existing reserves, as well as the fiscal stabiliser. So, as far as this is concerned, in fact - no matter how different thesis may be heard every day in Parliament - from others, from abroad, from independent experts who are not burdened by our internal discussions, we are hearing the opposite. As far as I'm concerned, let me be very clear. As the Prime Minister has already said, the procedure is ongoing. The procedure is not completed. The takeover isn't over. And the government did not take a concrete position on the procedure and on the concrete acquisition, except that both funds must comply with the law and with their duties and duties. However, I would like to point out that, unlike the government, the administration and the representatives of the workers of the Pivovarna Union have expressed themselves very clearly and very transparently. And they just supported one of the takers, unlike the government. Of course, we will only continue to insist on what we have so far, that the existing legislation is duly complied with. However, it is certainly appropriate to look closely at this proposal below and actually make comparisons. I think you will find these very interesting, and I believe the Ministry of Economy will also make them and present them to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u90	Does anyone else want any ministers within the time available to the government? Please. You have the floor. Dr. Petrinov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Maybe just to explain, because there was a question about the competition law. I would just like to point out that, already today, this law allows the Competition Office to allow certain mergers, representing a higher proportion of 40 per cent when assessed. This has been assessed in some cases as necessary in terms of opening up the Slovenian market and due to competition from abroad. Thus, this possibility is already opening up and several cases have already been made, from holding to connecting, say, in the food industry and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Any other government representatives? [[No, no, ……]] I then ask the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, a member group of the Slovenian National Party wanted to speak. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u93	Excuse me, one at a time. Mrs Petrinova, you have rightly found out when you said that such a protection law on competition already exists, but you did not correctly determine when you said so in general. In the Slovenian national party, we have told you exactly which of the laws we introduce or are re-assigning - this is concentration. The focus in the law itself includes the fourth part, which is from Article 11, and right here in here we "touched". There are several forms of different situations on the market, but I think you know these things. Please, however, if you take us Members in this way too, and you have a kind of credible response. On the other hand, I would like to respond to Mr Rope. Look, I told the whole government, my intention is not to argue with you, really not. Even if you tell me you're good masters, if you want, I can lie to you and say I believe you, I just don't think people believe you. In the final stage of introducing new taxes in this period, such as Slovenia now, I do not believe that any citizen, company or any other entity in our society wants new taxes, and this from the success story. On the other hand, the budget deficit is almost one third of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 1995. Budget revenues in 1995 amounted to 500 billion Slovenian tolars, today or for 2002 amount to 2 000 or 1,400 billion Slovenian tolars. They've increased, figure out for yourself how much. Of course, Mr Drnovšek, we probably didn't understand each other when we made each other's views. In the national interest, there is no market-based behaviour, no one offers a higher price, whether it offers a Slovenian company or offers a foreign, richer company. The national interest is shown right here when the government, within its legal capacity, is helping the domestic company. Slovenia, this young country we are in, has had so many things to learn from in the past. Look at the disintegration of the Moroccan Dark from the former Yugoslavia, the damage it caused. I would believe in your thinking if I didn't feel this Slovenia what happens to the giants who are falling apart because the country isn't helping them. We learn from history, learn from those mistakes so that we don't cheat on them. I have told you, including existing legislation, even government regulations say that when it comes to achieving better terms of sale, the country should also enter into the sales process. The two laws that we propose come from this title. In the Slovenian National Party, we will offer you once again the adoption of both proposals for today's meeting of the National Assembly. We ask you, Mr Drnovšek, to give your Members a green light and at least allow us to have a debate to take our views now, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all institutions are welcome to make their proposals. But we're handing them over now, as long as there's still time in this country, not after we're allowed to sell them all out, and then we're gonna say, "oh, now we're late." So I appeal to you, Mr President of the National Assembly, to re-vote the two laws that were tabled yesterday, which we tried to put on the agenda today, but were unfortunately rejected, both laws that promote national interest or enforce in Slovenian legislation, that we are discussing and accepting that this country will also have some of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Before I explain to you my position on the proposal you have made, I invite representatives of other parliamentary groups to make their views known within 5 minutes. First, he asked his colleague Podobnik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group and then his colleague Mag. Visa on behalf of the Social Democratic Group of Members. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Mr. President! The debate that we are currently having in the context of the rules of procedure to express their position when the Government of the Group responds is a very important debate. The National Assembly or Parliament is the place where these issues need to be discussed. Perhaps we could call this topic what Slovenian capital is, the attitude towards Slovenian capital, or perhaps otherwise. Colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister! Let us not be embarrassed to talk about Slovenian national interest in the economy. This interest exists, yes. It's not fiction. This is the basic binder of the state of Slovenia. Mr. Prime Minister! I firmly believe that Slovenian citizens and citizens expect a bolder position on these issues from you. Be more eloquent. In accordance with European rules, in accordance with the rules of the Association Agreement and with all the rules applicable in Slovenia, including with regard to antitrust legislation, I am convinced that we have sufficient knowledge, capital and legal knowledge in Slovenia, that we will be able to enter the European Union as a country that we will find that it has succeeded in bringing a large majority of the Slovenian economy and banks in accordance with the applicable European Union standards. I repeat, in accordance with the rules we have adopted. Mr. Prime Minister! I have publicly challenged, in my opinion, your mistaken assessment of the signature of the Group of 57 Members. Why? This is a relationship between the government and Parliament. I ask, who, if not Members of Parliament and Members, will ask on these questions what and how the government will decide, what and how government services will do, what will be done and how the Supervisory Council of State Funds will do? I am firmly convinced that it is the duty of Members and Members to intervene in this way in these decisions. That's why, in my opinion, I also said publicly that your response was wrong. Your response was wrong. The position of Members and Members should be understood as support, as support to government and government services and government institutions, that, in accordance with the relevant Slovenian legislation and legislation of the European Union, we will do our utmost to be, under the same conditions as the first among the same, if they appear on the Slovenian capital market, pervading, capable Slovenian capital, for example, international corporations that are Slovenian, so that they can run on these calls equally. We also wanted to give this message with this signature. There's something else I'd like to point out here. I am convinced that the State of Slovenia is, not by special law, but by other means, an extremely large margin of government ownership, both in banks and in certain other institutions. The SLS, as a government party, will seek to achieve, within its political power, that this process will be carried out as correctly as possible and that, in the context of the procedures and rules in force, we will allow ambitious, pervasive Slovenian capital to participate equally in these calls. Here I will only briefly dispute with my colleague Jelinčič - you may have been too sharp in your first performance and you have challenged the Prime Minister to have been very sharp back in his first performance. You have to admit that you were partially populist. In the second performance, Mr President of the Government, when I also listened to him in his office, when he mentioned the possibility that the government would support, whoever would run, in this case we can speak, for two state funds whose shares, in this case, we can speak specifically for an important Slovenian company, and the decision of the state funds will be crucial here to take over, so that this fund will be, and that this team will act in accordance with the agreed rules. That's right, that's right. I only wonder what would happen if there were two equal offers, how the state representatives would decide in this case. It is therefore right that this way Members and Members should legitimately put pressure on those people who will decide on behalf of the State on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm giving my colleague a word. A visionary who will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I would like to point out that replicas are not possible, and I invite those who represent the views of Members' groups not to raise such controversy in some way, because they cannot be answered. I therefore propose that we focus on presenting the views of the groups of Members and not on the controversy with others. He's been followed by a colleague of mine named Ferry Horvath. Please, mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues! I have also contributed to the signature, but I did not want such a reaction and such a debate on the subject to be triggered. In particular, with this signature, I wanted to report that there is no implementation of what we are always and still alerting in the Social Democratic Party, namely that it is not a systematic and comprehensive field of sale of state property, whether it is Slovenian banks, insurance companies or shares in companies. We are opposed to the partial, partial, superficial and depending on the situation in the way and also to the sales process. We want to have a clear picture, in particular a clear picture of what national interests are and what we as a country expect from selling this share. I wanted to point this out more than once. The first and the main issue is that it is a transparent sale, that is to say that the sale does not cast any doubt on the future capital structure either of the companies or of the banks or of anything else. Secondly, by selling, we ensure a successful and market-oriented business of economic operators, both in the Slovenian space and in the wider European space to which we all hope. It is very important that fresh capital comes into the Slovenian economy and thus a new start and, of course, also a new perspective, new markets and also new jobs. This seems very important to me in these decisions. Finally, it is necessary, and we must do so, to protect Slovenian trademarks, those trademarks on which Slovenia is identified and identified in the European and also in the wider world. In short, this is a problem, this is what has decided that I myself have signed this initiative and I have not and I do not want to in any way and never prejudic any buyer in any given business, because it can only affect the quality or the quality of the sale and, of course, it also reduces the quality of the result or the economic operator that is somehow operating on the market and, of course, also on the European market. I support the personal integration of Slovenian companies, as this affects the effectiveness of these companies' performances in particular in foreign Western and global markets. That was the basic reason for my signature among these 57 signatures. Unfortunately, the matter has turned into completely different waters and was not, at least on my part, meant to do so. Therefore, I would like to point out once again here, in particular, to Mr Prime Minister, that we should not sell Slovenian property in pieces, let us do so on the basis of comprehensive system legislation, which will in particular clearly define the objectives of this sale, the procedures of this sale and, of course, define what this national interest is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. The next one has the floor, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, of colleague Feri Horvat. Then who else wants to go after him? [[Yeah.]] My friend, Dr. Bayuk. Please, Comrade Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that it is not possible or useful to discuss national interests in a bombastic way, in big words, and in a big pathetic way, which then usually goes in the wrong way, but we have to be very argumentative and responsible. The debate is legitimate and may even be good that it was triggered, although not by the most appropriate words, with regard to the assessment of the situation, but I also think that it is not by the most appropriate proposed types of intervention laws in this area. We also had an interview with representatives of the International Monetary Fund here in Parliament days ago. It has been positive to hear the best assessment of visits to Slovenia so far. We'll see what the final report is. One of the criticisms, however, was, of course, on the subject of privatisation, as well as the conditions or environment for foreign capital inflows. The data show that in this area, particularly in the area of foreign direct investment, we cannot be satisfied. I think it would therefore be harmful right now to create any kind of campaign or to take any intervention measures, administrative, which, apart from giving an even greater message that we are actually a consciously unfriendly environment for foreign investment. This is important for economic, political and other reasons at this time of approximation or entry into the European Union. As far as signatures are concerned, I myself have signed the answer to the first question. It was about collecting opinions, and I think there was a rather unfair public display of essentially two different issues. The first question was whether we are in favour of connecting the Slovenian economy, Slovenian companies, business and capital integration. I think the answer to that question is a positive answer. It's not a mistake. The second question, however, was completely different. Whether we're up for or against Interbrew buying a majority stake in the Union. I would never sign this and I did not sign the answer to that question or give a positive opinion on it. Very few colleagues have also signed this question or given a positive answer to this question, as I recall. I would therefore like to reiterate my position: the integration of domestic economic operators makes sense, on rational economic grounds due to their own development, due to their appearance in third markets, and also to the fact that they are stronger partners in connection with foreign partners. Of course, I am not in favour of any or no action taken against this merger and against the flow of foreign capital. And let me get this over with. We speak unjustifiably often, even in the public, that Slovenia does not have a developed development strategy, that it does not have clear objectives, that it does not have a defined national interest and so on and so on. This interest cannot be defined abstractly unless it is discussed in general. One of the forms of defining this interest, already mentioned was systemic legislation, is the economic development strategy of Slovenia. This is also a document that the international business and professional public, including the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, positively assesses. This strategy was adopted by the government at the end of July and went relatively silently past as if nothing had happened. I don't know if vacation time has contributed to this, or whether there have been reasons for that. We have therefore decided on the Committee on the Economy last week to organise a public presentation of opinions, where we will invite the general public, professionalism, representatives of the economy, science, professions, NGOs and others, in addition to members of the government and others. This will be an opportunity when it is assessed, and I myself believe that the objectives are well defined, that the strategic orientations are well defined, that we will find out what else needs to be done at operational level, systemic and others, that these objectives will also be achieved. This, colleagues and colleagues, is the way to better define and realize national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dr. Bajuk, will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members; on my list is the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. You have the floor, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, a debate took place in this National Assembly on national interests, the words that we have heard a lot in recent months, either from the President of the State or from such and other representatives of Slovenian public opinion or higher responsibilities. Every time I hear the word national interest, I remember the Cankars for the good of the nations and I'm a little pessimistic about what is actually hiding behind each of these words. In today's globalised world, national interest in a country like ours will not be greater and more important, relative to the global economy, no matter what speeches we have here in the national assembly or elsewhere in our country. The national interest cannot be anything other than the interest of the Slovenian nation, it is said, the interest of Slovenes and Slovenes. If there is something in the economic field that Slovenia needs today, it is precisely once and for all that it decides to create equal opportunities for every citizen or citizen to be truly equal in their cooperation and in their sense of responsibility for the contribution. But when it connects to a company or a company or a name, of course, I have big questions. That today it is said that Slovenia is not available for foreign investment, yes, because this is a historical fact. Mr Prime Minister, you have already acknowledged that Slovenia is the last of all candidate countries for the European Union. And it's not an accident, it's actually our approach to this issue. But we have a very positive experience, if not, but let's go look at Revoz, and let's see what the role is about doing business in our country, increasing exports, jobs So let's go to Novo mesto and ask people who work there, whether they are in favour or against foreign investment in Slovenia. [[...]] Or Sava Goodyear, and unfortunately, we have very few such cases. In no way do I advocate that we just sell, no matter who or what the cost. However, I must admit, Mr President, that I do not want to be in your shoes because today you have precisely because the Slovenian state still owns too much of all our economies, this role that you must, want or do not want, because in professional literature you know "pick the winers" - you will have to choose those who will win in such, and other, competitions. This is not the role of the state, modern democratic development. The developed country should have such a government that would not have this role, but to really ensure those rules of the game that you were talking about. But I'm worried about him from another point of view. You were talking, Mr. President, about the rules of the game. I would like to ask you what rules of the game we are witnessing today that state institutions, so to speak, are currently investing in that part of the world that is known for its greatest risk. The new Ljubljana Bank invested in Sarajevo, Macedonia and Vojvodina. On what grounds? Is that a national strategy, but is that a government strategy? At the same time, things are happening to us, as we have noted, in addition to adopting the law on the implementation of the budget, we are devoting great resources to the government, so that our economy will continue to function on the basis of support. And look again at all the guarantees we have now passed for two years, so much could be taken by the export financing and insurance company, for a risk that is obviously very large. Now, too, the local professional public warns about this and we are creating, perhaps if we are lucky with the purchase, and we will also create special funds for the penetration of our economy into Southeast Europe. At the same time, our Ministry of Economy has not yet issued a call for those small funds that we have in order for our craftsmen to have access this year, not two years from now. This year to have access to ISO 9000, 9001 and 9002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Does any other group within the framework of the business opportunity, five minutes, wish to communicate its views? I guess not. This concludes the debate, as we have implemented the options given to us in accordance with the Rules of Procedure with Article 29(2). Mr Peče suggested that the National Assembly should decide once again on the proposal to reintroduce the two laws which did not receive the necessary support in setting the agenda. I must inform him that it is not possible to vote on this, as the Rules of Procedure do not provide for an extension of the agenda already adopted. I will only warn him, including others, that the second paragraph of Article 270 can be applied to this second paragraph of Article 29 - these are the only decisions that can be adopted. You did not propose such a thing, so I ask you to accept my explanation with understanding. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposal by the Slovenian National Party Group on the subject. Next one's got a word, mate mag. A visionary to ask the Prime Minister a question, Drnovšku. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. With my question, I would have touched on a lot of the topic recently, namely the treaties between Slovenia and Croatia concerning the Krška nuclear power plant. This would also turn to you as a Member of Posavia, because the signature is scheduled for tomorrow to try to convince you that this treaty is not good, that it is harmful, both for Slovenia and especially for the Posavci or for the local community that lives with this facility. In particular, Posavci, and also of course Slovenia and Slovenia, are aware that we need and that we need to resolve the issues raised and open issues between the countries, in particular the issue of operation and all other matters related to the Krška nuclear power plant. However, not in this way and in the form proposed. Look, there are a lot of questions about this contract. I'd only point out some. The first very important issue is the financial part of the contract. The financial part of the contract is unclear and has not been presented anywhere and we are not given an insight and we do not know it. Above all, it is necessary to say here that the nuclear power plant has been shut down, that is to say that the electricity was no longer received by Croatia as a result of the non-payment of energy. At the time of the shut-off or still, Slovenia has made a number of investment investments, just to point out, for example, the evaporator. Finally, many credits and Croatia have not settled their obligations to the nuclear power plant decommissioning fund, but of course we have not supplied electricity to Croatia either. This is the financial side of this story, which is not clear who wins, who loses, and how many loses. I personally suspect that it is not presented to us that Slovenian citizens and citizens will still be in pain when we have to cover it through public debt or otherwise. Another very important issue is the storage of radioactive waste. The Treaty provides that if no solution is reached, the location of the nuclear power plant will be used to temporarily store radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel for the rest of its life. That's until she's locked up. We bear this obligation and this burdens the next generation. It is such a long period of time that it is practically very irresponsible of us to pass on this issue to future generations. I therefore ask you as Prime Minister: Will you, despite the strong and unified opposition of the Posavje region, where the nuclear power plant is located and thus the landfill, the temporary landfill of radioactive waste, and with the clear opposition of some members of the National Assembly, continue to sign this treaty? You are already the Prime Minister and I ask you: What was done at this time to find a permanent landfill of radioactive waste? Why do we leave to future generations the solution of such an important issue as the landfill of radioactive waste and, of course, the financing of the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Time is limited. This restriction applies to all equally. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed the agreed agreement on the Krška nuclear power plant with Croatia. This was also confirmed by the Foreign Policy Committee of the National Assembly. At this stage or at this point of decision, the government is normal or has no other formal option than to sign this agreement in advance. In particular, because we believe that after decades of negotiations we have negotiated a balanced agreement that solves all open issues in the way that it was the most possible. Based on the fact that the unregulated situation in the Krško nuclear power plant is a bad solution and that, of course, we also cannot come from this because, a while ago, our site shut down the electricity to Croatia for failing to settle the obligation, so that, of course, we now take this situation as a constant and constant use of this electricity, as many people seem to think we should do. In this case, of course, it would be a simple takeover of the Croatian part of the nuclear power plant, which is probably not representative in this civilized world, and even if we know that on the other hand we also have a lot of assets in Croatia, which we have tried to protect adequately with another bilateral agreement with Croatia. In short, such behavior that everyone would take what is in his possession would not lead anywhere, but not to the benefit of Slovenia. In the negotiations, we tried to resolve all issues in the best possible way, financially, by compensating each other's claims from the past, so that there was such a beating, a break-in on a multipoint. As far as waste disposal is concerned, it must be said that in the existing agreement, what we have from the previous country, Croatia did not have any obligations in relation to waste, so that status quo would mean that all waste is our obligation. What could be agreed at this point is that, in accordance with the capital injection invested in the nuclear power plant, everyone also assumes the same part of the obligation and, of course, of equal liability in waste. The Croatian side has agreed to this. However, since at this point specific solutions for waste or better solutions are not yet available, we have agreed that from this point forward we are looking for this solution to find it as soon as possible, so that each party will take up its part of the obligation. But if we fail to do so, at the end of the nuclear power plant, each side takes its share of the waste and takes it either to storage or to whatever it wants. I think the agreement is balanced. The alternative to this agreement is still an unregulated situation that would not solve anything but at least the issue of waste. I understand that the local community wants to establish its own specific issues, certain interests, this is also legitimate. It must be said that there is already a certain amount of rent that they receive from this title. If these issues are to be raised in some way in the congregation or in the region, let us continue to discuss these matters and seek appropriate solutions. However, in an interstate relationship with Croatia, I do not think that a better agreement than we have reached could be reached or could not be reached. That is why, despite the criticism of this agreement on our part, we hear that they are also on the Croatian side, the government has assessed that this agreement is what is better than a solution and that it is the best possible solution that we have at our disposal. That is why the government remains in the process of signing this agreement and then sending it to the National Assembly for ratification, as we have already announced before the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. He wants a colleague of mags. A visa to ask a further question? You have the floor, Comrade Visjak, three minutes - two minutes, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. It would address only two issues, notably those related to the so-called temporary storage of radioactive waste. Look, the deal's bad in this part. Why is he bad? Since it provides, and the clear direction of the contract is that the facility or that the location can be used for the rest of life, which means that if there is no agreement on the location of the permanent landfill, then, of course, each side is obliged to take away half of these radioactive wastes. I want to know how we can assure us when the facility is no longer operational, when we no longer have the power to shut off electricity or to do anything, then the matter is over. It's also with decomposition. The Treaty provides for a fund to be set up by Croatia for decommissioning, which costs about as much as it costs to build a nuclear power plant. If the Croats do not respect this part of the contract, there is nothing, there are no mechanisms to achieve this. This will come under the burden of Slovenian taxpayers and, of course, we will take something back over the years into public debt, what we will probably accept in these days at the expense of the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks. I remind you here today that I do not want this to happen, so I also ask you to reconsider, in particular, the resolution of these key issues, which are particularly the people of local communities and, of course, the wider Slovenia. That's not true. You have the wrong information for the local community to receive any rent. The local community does not receive this, although under the environmental protection law it would be entitled to such or other compensation from the landfill of radioactive waste and some proximity or environmental degradation due to the presence of a nuclear facility. The State or the local community is merely entitled to compensation for the use of building land, which is quite different from the compensation known by the Environmental Protection Act. We estimate that this contract is weak and does not resolve essential issues regarding the continued good, safe and sound operation of the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. You have asked a supplementary question or comment on the answer. Would you like to further clarify your views, Mr. Prime Minister? Yes, you do. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u109	I don't think we can put things this way if you do, but what if the other side doesn't execute its contract. This would make no sense to conclude any treaties in this world, and we probably cannot live with this assumption, because then we would solve disputes only in some way, which is, of course, very unpleasant, as is the case in the past. We resolve disputes, or different interests, with contracts, which, of course, we also try to stick to. That is our legal order, and that is the international legal order. The Croatian side, the Croatian country has assumed an obligation under this Treaty, a solidarity obligation to take over its part in the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and also its waste. And it guarantees that. Of course, it's more difficult to expect. Doubting that the Croatian state will fail to do so puts things in a totally unacceptable light. It's clear that we're expecting to stick to these contracts on both sides. As far as rent is concerned. I asked this question myself and got the answer that a certain rent exists. I asked this question because I think it is right that this issue be settled for the environment, for those people who live nearby, that they also have some compensation for it. Then Minister Kopač will be able to tell more about this if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Comrade Lević to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Drnovšek. The agreement between Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters, the so-called Vatican Agreement, which is under way and is already paraphrased by the Government, is intended to end the multi-annual efforts of the State of Slovenia and the Catholic Church to settle the issues at issue and resolve the disagreements and, consequently, the disputes. The first statements by both parties show that there is a disagreement about an agreement to resolve disputes and disputes. I am surprised by the diametrically opposite interpretation of the agreement, such as to be seen from your statements and by the representatives of the church on what this agreement should mean. Your statement that the agreement does not introduce anything new into the Slovenian legal order, that the agreement is symbolic and that there is no initiative for other issues, is in total contradiction with the statement of our bishop Rodet and other church representatives who want a comprehensive agreement that will formalize more than the legal position of the church. After Rodet, the agreement provides an initiative to discuss new agreements between Slovenia and the holy seat. This, in my opinion, only says that the agreement is too small and allows for different interpretations. And instead of abolishing the agreements, it creates new ones. Can you, Sir Drnovšek, explain once again whether the agreement closes or opens up new differences? What, according to different interpretations, is your interpretation of the content and meaning of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you. I'm glad we have some very pressing questions today. In regulating relations with the Catholic Church, the Slovenian government has taken or has taken the following approach to regulate relations in the domestic legal order, so that, of course, we can agree and accept solutions and that these are the solutions that we consider acceptable to us and also in accordance with our legal order. In fact, this agreement, which is now signed with the holy seat, even at this level with a holy seat, as a non-specific state and institution, kind of confirms what we have already adopted in our legal system. That is why we see this primarily as a gesture on our part, that, in the interest of the other party, the church side, we have settled this issue also in this agreement with the holy seat, even though this has already been arranged in our home in our legal system. So it is an answer, a positive answer with a gesture, because we want to have the right relations and also the answers to the questions in this area. And this agreement, in fact, the agreement with the holy seat, does not introduce anything new that has not already been adopted with us. What prompted some questions and debates is that one article says that both sides are willing to continue to discuss further open issues. Of course it's always possible. We can talk if it says so or not. If the interest of one party or another is expressed, of course we can talk about it. But what we will agree on and what will follow is, of course, a completely different question. And then what's to come. In short, such a provision does not prejudge anything. And it is true, we know that the church in public has raised some additional interests by now. That's familiar. These have not been included in this agreement. For example, in particular, the issue of a religious person in public schools is pressing. So religious education in public schools. This is likely to be the question that would be raised in the future. So far, the Slovenian government has not accepted this issue and has not included it in our legal system or in an agreement with the holy seat. Since many probably think that this agreement has prejudged something about this issue, a little more clarity is likely to be introduced by the Constitutional Court's judgment of the previous week, which in one of its judgments has taken the view that religious education is possible outside a public, public school. Thus, the Constitutional Court held that religious education, in public schools, should not be present because in public schools, in some way cannot favour one or another religious education, since, of course, all those participating in public school can have different beliefs. And so that in, such religious education is limited or put into the sphere then, if we say so, more private, or private schools, which already exist in this area. In general, I think that this - which is really a gesture for us to say, good will and even in some way of calming down, at least the desire was to calm down some debate and politicization about the question of the church - was used too much to politicize because some wanted and wanted to make politics out of it, but we just wanted to get these issues out of politics, create some normal situation and thus work in this country without any religious intolerance or any kind of favoritism of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Do you want to ask an additional question? Yes, you do. Comrade Levich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Just some kind of hypothetical question I'd ask. How, though, will the government react when the church’s side does what the archbishop of Rhode has already predicted to launch an initiative to conclude an agreement to regulate the role of the church in schools, military and public institutions such as hospitals, or if it would like to conclude a special agreement on church taxation?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to answer this supplementary question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u117	Look, I don't think there's any point in answering hypothetically now how we're going to react to any proposal. If any proposal comes, we will examine it and, of course, react accordingly. I think that the framework that I have presented in the introduction is, in fact, clear enough to say what the government is like and what our views on this issue are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have thus concluded that part of this agenda item when you answer questions from opposition members directly. You said you wanted to thank the National Assembly for asking the current questions. I would like to return a compliment to the government and say that we are pleased in the National Assembly that this time there are so many ministers and ministers present at this point, and I suggest that this remains the same. Let's move forward in order, my colleague Peterle wants a word instead of a reported colleague of Bayuk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! My question is addressed to the Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Ruple. The starting point for my question is in the margin or the difference between a photograph and a statement. I saw a photograph of two foreign ministers, where I did not notice any very good will, I mean Slovenian and Croatian, and then I saw in the newspapers at the photo or elsewhere that relations between Slovenia and Croatia are the best so far. I must say, this difference between photography and words worries me. I am concerned because I think that Slovenian foreign policy has apparently gone on the path leading to failure in an attempt to address one of the open issues with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. We all wanted this path to succeed after years of experimenting, but what happened to the countries should not have happened - I am talking about two countries - and my explanation is that this could only happen because of an asymmetric approach to resolving the border issue between the two countries. This is particularly true in view of the fact that the two prime ministers, although usually ministers do so, are conducting talks with diplomacy and are usually looking for political support on both sides for a final solution or for possible questionable solutions in an agreement. When this political support is provided on both sides, then negotiations take place, then there's some testing, verification, then there's an agreement, a signature, ratification. This was clearly a completely asymmetric. I'd say next. If one of the parties did not carry out this verification and it was not clear about the other side that this would be the case, then something is wrong here. Whether it is naiveness or solitude or it is a lack of knowledge of diplomatic method and foreign policy. We certainly have a completely asymmetric situation now. One government has praised and more or less skilled coalition parties. The other government shows it as damage and disaster for its own country. So, there must have been something very wrong here, that there have been so diametrically different evaluations adopted or agreed between the government presidents. This is a matter of concern to me. I ask the Foreign Minister how we are going to get through this and what strategy does the government have to overcome this situation and yet resolve matters and that we will have better relations. The next question is who will pay for this responsibility. The Prime Minister? President of the State? Foreign Minister? Indeed, political responsibility is being raised after this fiasco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, can we have an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u121	Your Honor. Our relations with the neighbouring country of Croatia are actually better than ever. We've made a lot of progress. A lot of agreements are signed, including ratified. Some of them have been resolved, recently concluded. Among them is the one you mentioned, about which I will say quite a few words. However, let me first react to what you said about the disproportionateity between photography and statement, or, if I understand you correctly, between reality and interpretation. I would like to remind you that, of course, neither for photographs nor for most interpretations, the Slovenian government or Slovenian foreign minister are not responsible, but are the product of independent political or other entities. I'm the one who's been misrecorded or misinterpreted about what I'm doing, already used to it. But I believe that something like this has happened to my predecessor, my colleague Peterlet, and that, in fact, he himself should not be too strange. Look, it is not true that the path of Slovenian-Croatian relations would be a path of failure. On the contrary. I think we have improved Slovenian relations recently. And it is precisely the negotiations and arrangements between the Presidents of the Government that I think they have contributed to the fact that these relations are good. The best so far, actually. Why am I saying that? On what grounds? What am I basing that on? Today was a talk about an agreement on nuclear Krsko. We know that in the past many other agreements on property legal matters have been adopted and ratified and so on and so on, the agreement on small-border transport, I am talking about [[..]] [[Incomprehensible]] which, of course, you have requested very vigorously here in Parliament and finally ratified. [[...]] Look, you mentioned the border agreement and let me say a few words about it. The border agreement was initialled. More importantly, it has been accepted by the two Heads of Government and both Governments. The Presidents adopted it, committed themselves publicly to this agreement, and they both adopted an agreement. These are the very facts of international relations. We have to deal with some facts, with some facts that cannot be deleted, although of course someone at this point might want a train or a carriage of our relations, if I express myself with a metaphor that was once used, by my predecessor, to push back. The fact is, there is a clear statement on the border, the fact that there are agreements, the fact that there are also written documents on completed negotiations. These are international facts which cannot be denied and which, of course, for the Croatian side and for our side, are the starting point. It is not true that only the Croatian side would oppose such an agreement or solutions. The Slovenian side also opposed them. There have been many negative, critical statements in this House at the expense of the border agreement. I've had a lot of criticism myself, a lot of writing, a lot of phones, a lot of visions and so on. But the fact is, in our media sometimes things show up, and here I agree with you, fellow Member, in our media sometimes things appear unilaterally. And our media are those who have created perhaps some mood or image, some interpretation, as if this agreement for neighbouring Croatia is good and for our failure. Or the other way around. Sometimes the other way around. I mean, let's not inherit interpretations, let's look at things the way they are. I don't think things are bad. We came, if you remember, from a state ten years ago, far away. I was the Minister myself ten years ago, or 11 years ago, when we started regulating relations with Croatia, we are moving forward in these relations. And I must say, I am personally pleased with that. I think we should all enjoy this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I am one of the two Members who voted against the border agreement. Since I could not take or could not confirm certain negotiating venues, even on the subject that threw away the adopted starting points of the Gulf of Piran in Parliament overnight, I am thinking of the divisiveness and so on. And there weren't so many votes against. I have to say, in this case, I see no special guilt in the media, because I have been quoting official statements. Even now it has been said on your part that relations are the best so far. So, I can't share this opinion with you, I'm afraid, but I would share this opinion if the border agreement were to take place in a different atmosphere, without listening now, so to speak, to the threat, what would happen if it didn't. In this case, both sides should win. This agreement, although it cannot be ideal and absolutely, I would say, positive for both sides, should lead to a conclusion by toasting it on both sides. Now, I'm saying there's one big a-symmetry that I don't think was created by the media on either side, but by the unagreed procedure, how it ends. I don't think it was the right procedure for the president and the teams to somehow put parliaments before the fact. In the Slovenian case, this was slightly different, and obviously this testing of negotiating points was not carried out even within the coalition. And I don't blame the Croatian side. She's responsible for herself. I ask, but for the responsibility of our party that it did not check, I would say procedural assumptions or starting points. And it makes no sense for us to say that the agreement is okay. I don't think it's right to moralize Croatia, which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Secretary want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellow Member! I'd like to say the following. And that's something they didn't even like to hear at some point on the Croatian side. The Prime Minister is the one who, under international law, besides the Foreign Minister and the President of the State, is essentially representing the State and whose statement, even if it is an oral statement, constitutes an international legal fact. It's an international legal fact. The fact that the Presidents, both of them, have adopted this border agreement is a very decisive fact for me, and I am also agreed by experts, international lawyers. As for your wish or your position that international agreements such as Slovenia-Croatia or the agreement between the two countries should be a victory for both sides, I fully agree with you. I think that, after all, it will happen that we can both be satisfied. I think this agreement will finally come to life. For our side and I think also for the Croatian side the negotiations are over. For all the last parish, this means proof that the negotiations are over and we do not need to do anything else at this point, but we need to wait. The fact is, on the Croatian side, there is some fragility and some weakness with regard to further steps towards, I would say, making promises or commitments under this agreement We hope that these commitments will be, or that these hesitations will be, I would say, defeated that the Croatian government will also find so much power to bring down what it has committed itself to. I think this agreement will be, maybe not tomorrow, maybe the day after tomorrow. With regard to responsibility for this agreement, I think that we must congratulate those who have worked for it on the fact that they have finally reached this stage that we all, together with us, are worthy of fellow Peterle, have failed in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. We continue, Mr Kontic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Health. I don't think there's a minister or a representative at this point. So I'm going to take this opportunity before he gets back, and I'm going to set up another initiative. It's the Ministry of Transport. In response to the question I have received from the previous meeting, the Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Presečnik, informed me in writing of the fact that they do not have data to alert me to the roadblocks of Velenje-Arj because of the dangerous connection to the highway. We were recently informed by the President of the Gorenje administration that the entire Velenje-Arje road section represents a serious obstacle for one of Slovenia's largest exporters. I am taking the initiative of the Ministry of Transport to take these obstacles seriously and remove them. Given that you have explained this to me, among other things, and I also agree with this that the Regional Road Traffic Traffic Monitoring Directorate is in charge of the roads of the Republic of Slovenia, please inform them that the users of this road connection are seriously concerned about their update. Well, and since the Minister of Health has returned, I'm asking the following question. Representatives of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and representatives of the operators represented by the competent chambers and associations of health institutions agreed, inter alia, by a general agreement for the 2001 contract year, that additional funds of 1.110 million tolls should be used to increase the material costs in hospitals, as the increase in the prices of health materials and medicines is significantly faster than the recognised valorisation of material costs in health, which is linked to the rise in the prices of life needs. More precise criteria and criteria for the allocation of these funds should be defined in the sectoral agreement. At the time of the adoption of the 2001 Sector Understanding for Hospitals, where the allocation of the said funds is to be specified, the arbitration procedure was entirely awarded to the Ljubljana Clinical Centre on a proposal from the Ministry of Health. I would like to know on the basis of which comparative analyses have been carried out, the material costs between Slovenian hospitals have been prepared with such a proposal for the allocation of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Can we ask the Minister for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u129	Mr President! Your Honor! It's true when you claim that 1 billion 100 was meant for this. However, something else was agreed at the beginning of 2001 that this is the first trial year when hospitals in Slovenia start to show at least part of their patients and evaluate their value according to the so-called value of the case. It was a model of hundreds of cases, of course it was a quantifiable number of patients, hundreds of diagnoses that were supposed to get a real price, so-called expensive or so-called cheap patients. Based on the data collected at the end of the year, we have pooled both models, both sharing material costs of 1 billion 100 and, of course, money spilling on the basis of these expensive patients. If I say so myself. First we poured 1 billion 100 into a joint fund of Slovenian hospitals and then divided this joint fund of Slovenian hospitals back into a new model. This model showed that some hospitals lack money even more than when the money was distributed. I'm thinking of the Clinical Center. However, thirdly, the sharing of money still applies to the third anchor, which is also, of course, meaningful and has been in place for many years. In fact, even when we share more transparently between hospitals year after year, none of the hospitals can lose more than 3% of the money in the new model. Therefore, if I combine this model and this anchor, I would just say that the Clinical Center, of course, has received insufficient money, is still relatively underfunded and some hospitals are still relatively funded. This, of course, opens up to us for years to come, not only a lot of tasks to improve the transparency of funding, but, of course, also opens up clear problems that we will be facing in public, in particular on the part of those who will, of course, have to adapt to a more realistic level of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Another question? He doesn't want Mr. Contic. Thank you. The next one is Mr. Tarchoon. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the question of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u132	We have the authority to replace him as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So my parliamentary question concerns Lipica, or the appointment of professional leadership in the public office of Kobilarna Lipica, which is a public institution, since 1995, when we passed a law on this public institution or on the kobelina Lipica. On 17.10., the Council of the Cobaltry Lipica appointed a professional leader - by the way, he appointed a professional leader, who was formerly a professional leader in Lipica, and several directors and professional leaders have been replaced in Lipica - but today there has been no agreement on the work between the president of the Council of the Cobile Lipica and the appointed professional leader, so it has been more than two months. I would like to draw attention here to the importance of a professional leader. In Lipica, where about 170 people are employed, there are only a few highly qualified people, veterinarians, and certainly such a public institution needs a professional leader. I am interested in the reasons why the contract has not yet been concluded and when it will occur, as the direct damage to Lipica itself and, of course, also the formation of the Lipicans, which is the main activity of this public institution. I was going to expand my question, but given that Mr Minister is not present today, I will do it another time. Please answer only the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u134	This is Mr Jože Strle, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Given that the Minister is not present and there is no State Secretary in question, I would suggest that you submit the question in writing and that we answer it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you. When there are questions, Members expect answers, otherwise we can send them by mail and then we can just forget this point. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u137	I agree, Mr. Vice President, with you. Of course, with such an answer, I certainly cannot be satisfied. I will also come up with my question in writing, but I warn you, because things haven't improved since the adoption of the law in Lipica for six years, but they only make it worse, and I predict that if I don't get explicit answers to my questions, these questions will be repeated here in front of the cameras.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Cheligoy. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance are warmly greeted! I have a question for the Minister for Environment and Space, and I'm really glad he's coming. Within your ministry, you have been planning the Snežnik regional park for seven years, which is supposed to be part of international projects. The park will be one of the largest with thousands of square kilometres of space in our country and will stretch in the wider area of Snow White, covering as many as eight municipalities and some of them are to be covered in full. Personally, I do not think that the approach in the preparatory stages has always been well thought out, because park planners have occasionally engaged intensively, excited people, and then silenced for a short period of time or longer. The accelerated activity is currently under way, as it is expected to be very urgent again. The government is also preparing various regulations that are unknown to people and to the municipalities, and they are also further upset because they fear that they will be in a worse park and only see in it the limits of their rights and the impeding of the development of the place. Personally, I think that if the natives do not accept the park for their own, or if they do not see their own interest in it, they will be forced to do so, and the well-designed matter will run into resistance and, of course, will not come to life. Mr Minister, in this regard, I ask what stage of reception is the Snežnik regional park and whether you are planning any further contacts with people living in the area of the future park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you so much for asking. The Snežnik Regional Park is in fact a park that is immediately overturned in public treatment or in the preparatory process. And all these years, as you have already mentioned, we are also trying to inform the inhabitants intensively about what the park should represent for them. To this end, we regularly issue a newsletter called Sneznik Park. It is obtained by every household in this potential park area and, of course, all the information, including such, very lifelike, about what the park would mean to us every day for each of the inhabitants of the potential park. Above all, we are trying to explain, of course, that the park is an advantage for people, not something to be afraid of. Well, this moment, or November of the month, that is, last month, we presented the proposal for a regulation establishing a landscape park to all the eight mayors of these eight municipalities covered by this area. And now we're collecting comments. The public hearing has already begun. The proposal for a regulation, in accordance with the nature conservation law, must also take place in a two-month public hearing between people. And this public hearing will be expected or certainly in the spring of next year. I hope it starts sometime in March or April. Otherwise, the whole process of setting up the park is precisely defined in the Nature Conservation Act. It takes about a year and a half. And all this time, there's intense communication, first among the institutions in the area of the park, then the mayors, then the municipal councils, but now it's coming directly to the people. And this public hearing procedure is double. The regulation goes to public hearing twice. So if everything is happy and all these procedures are going to run as they must and there will be satisfaction in the potential area of the park, then I hope that in 2002 we will also complete the procedure for adopting the regulation in the government. But, as I said before, there will be plenty of room or time for discussion during this procedure. In addition, let me say that we have occasionally organised a special demonstration bus, that we go from place to place, that we are leaving all of this to people, and, of course, all of these activities will also take place in the stage of this formal public hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Does he want an extra question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. The next one has the word Mrs. Pozsonchev. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Ministry of Education and Sport would ask how much it would cost if the salaries of teachers in kindergartens were covered by the state. I think that's why the parents' contribution is so high because the teachers' salaries are covered by their parents. It happens that in the case of a child who is sick for two or three weeks, only a few extras for a meal are deducted from the kindergarten and the parents pay almost as much as if the child were in kindergarten on a regular basis. That's right, 30,000, 35,000 tolars. I do not think that this is worthy of the country declared a social state. It is not worthy of teachers who are teachers and whose contribution is invaluable to the socialisation of children. Have we not yet come to the realization that the kindergarten is not just a child-protection exercise, but a demanding teaching work that the state should pay for, because kindergarten is also part of the education system, according to my logic? And you don't have to tell stories about municipalities paying the difference to the economic price. In some congregations, the situation is so alarming that saints do not accept an economic price that is already strong over 60,000 SIT a month. Is that why we're just going to close the small nursery? As an example, I would also like to point out that the full-day contribution of parents in Hungary for two weeks is only 400 forints. I believe that it is obvious at this point which country is social and which should change its policy towards young families. Another time. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it allows for the purposeless use of funds in individual ministries. We have read in the last week that the Court of Auditors at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has found an unintended use of funds of SIT 4 billion. How will the government act? Third time. I ask the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, what is the ease of hiring trainees? Fourth time. I ask the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is it still valid for the construction of the motorway east-west? Lately, to determine the route and the need for a highway is the only saving count of traffic. It would also be wise to think about the developmental components of one province. However, we should also take into account the decision of the first Parliament, even more so because the last 30 km towards Hungary is not a demanding territory and it is not worth giving the total credibility of the country, not to the European public, who believes in the fifth corridor and not to their citizens who expect better living conditions. And just to finish it. I'm asking the Ministry, when will the intersection in Prosenjakovci begin? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Now, if we follow this order as you asked the questions, I would first have the word of Minister Dr. Chokov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Possons. I can attract you in many ways, but not entirely. In fact, nothing would change at the cost of kindergartens if the method of obtaining funds or financing were different. In fact, the salaries of educators are determined either by the law on the ratio of wages or by the rule of law, which is designed for this purpose, to the rules on the price of kindergartens. You yourself said that the price of kindergartens included teaching work - of course, it was the work of the educator, the guardian's protection, care, above standard. As a result, the prices of kindergartens vary from place to place in Slovenia, as some municipalities that can afford to do so pay quite a bit of overtime in kindergartens as well. We know that the proportion that comes after the law on the financing of municipalities in the equalisation of kindergartens in small municipalities that cannot handle this burden will only cover the whole budget for kindergartens, and we have these cases. [[...]] We have therefore set up a special group with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, consisting of representatives of municipalities, representatives of the Ministry of Education, representatives of pre-school education as professions and representatives of local self-government, this is said by the Office of Local Administration of the Ministry of the Interior to address this problem. This initiative has been strongly expressed and we have therefore responded to it. We hope that we will find ways to prove that it is likely that the gathering of these funds in small congregations is not appropriate or how to approach this problem differently. However, we must be aware that we will have a local, regional and national level in Slovenia. Years ago, a study was carried out that accurately established that the local administration was concerned about covering preschool education in most countries, even primary education. So we're not some special country in this case. The State pays in the field of pre-school education traineeships to all trainee trainers, pays for renovations and certain projects and certain superstandards for which kindergartens are nominated. The fact that families pay a lot of money is and it's not true. The price of kindergarten is also 79,000. But almost no one pays for it. It's the highest category. Most citizens include their children in those categories that pay about 47,000 SIT, that is today 5 to 7% of the gross income of this group and, of course, about 15% per member of this group. I'm talking about this group of citizens. We have achieved that this percentage has fallen. In the early 1990s, the percentage given by this group of citizens was 35% of the family budget. But you're right, there are areas, there are areas. There are also special benefits to those. Some of you know that in areas where there are Roma, such as Chernobyl and the surrounding area, there are a high number of children in kindergarten who pay nothing. Of course, it's about digging up other parents. We will try to find a solution that would highlight this problem in a way that would enable a solution. But today I cannot assure you that something will change. In fact, our strategy is not for kindergartens to move to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next Minister was Mr Preseknik, in my opinion, after this sequence, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mrs. Pozsonchev! You asked the Ministry of Transport two questions, first of all, whether the fifth corridor is still a priority. So the national programme for the construction of the highway network is in place. Within the scope of the option, priorities shall be set each year, taking into account transport burdens, toll opportunities, financing opportunities and so on. We are aware that other ways of financing or individual stages will have to be found where the transport burden is not as high as you said it is also an encouraging moment for the economy of the region, and in these cases it will also have to take into account some type of construction phase, it is said, not immediately with a four-passenger, possibly with a two-passenger, and in this way also to resolve some sections. However, we will discuss this when we prepare and discuss in the National Assembly a new balance or development plan for the construction of the highway network. The second question is, about the intersection in the Prosecutors -- because I said it right, didn't I? I have a more encouraging word here. According to the information I have, all administrative permits have been obtained, problems with the local community have been resolved. The intersection will begin to be regulated in the first months of the following year, in the first spring months, and will be completed in the first half or expected sometime in May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Also Secretary of State, Mrs Nataša Belopavlovich, concerning traineeships or employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u149	Therefore, with regard to job facilitation, I must say that there are several programmes within the framework of the active employment policy to encourage trainees or beginners without experience. The most important is actually the pay-for-training programme, which means that 80% of the trainee salary can be paid from the employment fund. At the same time, 10% of the minimum wage is paid as a contribution, as an allowance for mentoring. And if it is to promote traineeships in regionally less developed areas, another 10% of the points are included. So I must say, from this title, traineeships can be financed to the extent possible. The invitation to tender for this programme was published this August in the Official Journal, Official Journal, with date 10.8. So far, 48 employers have been involved and 88 trainees have been hired, but I must say that this invitation to tender is still open. Then there are some other programs. It could be mentioned that the employer's contribution scheme can be paid back to employers when the first seeker, who has been registered for six months or longer at the employment institution, has been employed, has a contribution for a period of two years for social insurance up to half the amount of this contribution and two other programmes, in which, in fact, beginners, without knowledge or without work experience, are included. These are work-related training programmes and work-related work-related programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Does he want an extra question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you so much for all the answers. I didn't get one intruding. But I would like to argue with the lady, a very, very respectable Minister of Education. I think the parents are very, very burdened with 30 or 40 grand. I think that kindergarten should be arranged differently. I don't understand it, but it's a training facility. And if they are educational institutions, the salaries of educators should be taken care of by the state. But with regard to the highway, this good purpose cannot be seen eastward. The two prime ministers signed an agreement to meet these two motorways in Pinka by 2004 and show no indication that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the next word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers. On the occasion of a visit to the Slovenian delegation in the place and world of the national assembly in Bern, we were informed at the residence of the Slovenian Embassy that the Ambassador had to wait five and a half months for a negative response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regarding payments for the purchase of missing equipment and essential tasks. In fact, before the move, the ambassador pawned 29,950 Swiss francs out of his pocket. This money should also be returned to him by all regulations by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this has not happened. In fact, the ambassador had to equip the residence, which is necessary after a good year, of course, from the beginning of the residence. This is the whole equipment of the residence, including the external appearance of the residence. All of this will have to be paid by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as soon as possible under the current mandate of the Ambassador or at the time of the arrival of the new Ambassador. I therefore ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the following questions. Why did the Slovenian ambassador in Bern have to wait for five and a half months before moving to an emergency residence, due to the payment of the works and equipment of the residence, and finally get a negative response? Why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not pay the ambassador the money established for the residence and services of the architect? Why do not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government Services, at the request of the Ambassador, send a commission to Bern to assess the situation on the spot? Why is the Slovenian ambassador in Bern treated differently from our other ambassadors? Will our ambassador and architect be duly compelled to seek justice in court? And does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs realize that all of this will also cause unpleasant consequences for our country, the public at home and, of course, Switzerland? This is a set of questions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And a short question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or probably to the Ministry of Economy. It is known that Slovenian farmers between the years 80 and 90 with bonds have deliberately co-financed the construction of the petrochemy of Ina - Kutina in Croatia. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether it has raised this issue in interstate discussions on property law issues? If he doesn't, I suggest he do it immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Rupel, we can hear the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u155	Your Honor! I listened with interest to your explanation of the Bern case. I'm a little different on the subject. As I understand it has been the cost of the Ambassador's residence without the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is the fact that, in fact, the Ambassador is probably in good faith starting to equip the residence without having the proper coverage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You are asking about the relationship between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ambassador Buser that there are two entities. Ambassador Buser is a member of the collective of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with him rules things out as much as he can. I must inform you that it is impossible to acknowledge all the costs which, I repeat without approval, the Ambassador has just made. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in view of the fact that this is the case, will try to resolve the matter in such a way that it will be at least a problem for the Ambassador and at least damage for the country. Some of what the ambassador is doing on his own, I would say, we will pay back, and some of these costs, which are unjustifiable, will probably remain to be discussed. As it is said, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have any outstanding obligations towards the Embassy in Bern, because the Embassy in Bern is our unit and we do not have any outstanding issues. Otherwise, we would like to make a written contribution to this matter, which is quite complicated. You can also obtain government records that have been drawn up in this case. I was previously aware of this and, of course, I am glad that you are interested in this matter. You'll be further informed about him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u156	Madam Secretary, may I have your answer? First, Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the question, Member. I think this is a specific example of Ina - Kutina, and we will answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you. An additional question, Mr. Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer, as it was at this time. However, I think it would really be necessary to resolve those open questions that are open to questions on this issue. Indeed, we were aware that the ambassador had to lay down the money for urgent tasks such as, the real laying of the metal drug, of course also the purchase of the flag, the writing board at the residence and so on. I think that these are some of the basic things that the state needs to ensure immediately. It's not like it's gonna wait and not approve. And the other thing. I would really ask that the whole set of open issues be judged as soon as possible on the spot, according to the Embassy itself in Bern, and that there is actually a mutual agreement. And secondly, as far as my second question is concerned, the Minister of the Economy. I really expect a comprehensive answer. However, I think that this is a question with which we should also start working very comprehensively in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Would you still like to answer, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u161	I'm asking you, fellow Member, to take a day or two to get your paperwork. In fact, the things you're talking about have been arranged for us to meet for a few days. The ambassador was called to a consultation. The rest of the embassy staff were invited to consult in Ljubljana for overcompensating certain costs. Believe me, it's not about the drug flag, it's not about the flags, it's not about basic equipment, it's about other things. It's about the accounts of an architect who seems to me to have intervened in our relationship in some inappropriate way and exhibited very high accounts. But as you say, let me talk about it, if necessary, at some point on the basis of documents and papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. As you can see, it's my turn now, and I'm going to let myself ask a question from here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u163	First of all, the question to Minister Bohinc about these unfortunate car stickers, which cause citizens and citizens of Slovenia to have many unnecessary routes. I'd like to ask you a question. Is the Ministry thinking about putting an end to this nonsense? The second question to the Minister concerns the law on salaries, the system of wages. The government has ensured that by the end of this year it will have drafted a law on the public sector wage system. It's December. It's not this law. But we know what will happen from April on. So I would definitely like that answer. And then there's the third question, which is, I'm probably thinking about the Ministry of Labour. On this day, 6,531 Slovenian nationals and citizens received notices from Thorn&Lunder law offices from Munich regarding their actions for forced labour during World War II in Germany, from which it appears that their claims will be nothing. Since the Slovenian government has cooperated with the work of costs in this law firm and so on, and because it has only informed these people quite vaguely, it would be very good because it is a large number of our citizens, to give clear notice and also guidance on what these people should do now. However, I will not ask the Ministry of Economy again if it answers my question, because it has already been promised that there will be an answer, but it is still not, so three times, four times, I don't know. Maybe you need to see where this stopped. At the previous meeting, Mr Strumčnik promised an answer, and so on. Asbestos, non-implementation of the asbestos law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u164	But I'll give you my word. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Dr. Brejc, for two questions. The first question concerns stickers. We consider that this is not stupid or we think that we succeeded after several delays in this project, which, although it has already been legally established a few years ago, more precisely in 1998, when the Road Safety Act was passed, that we have managed to draw up a project in inter-resource cooperation, which is now a declaration with some beginners of problems, but is being implemented in a way that is European practice. It means that we have put in place the method under which the marketing authorisation is an identification document, the sticker proves the payment of charges for the use of roads, insurance and technical checks. The whole idea is for authorised service organisations whose number will increase more significantly over the coming months and years, so that these organisations will perform all registration services more closely to citizens and citizens, with changes in registration, renewal of registration, new registrations, termination of registrations. In short, anything to do with motor vehicles. What has been claimed so far is that in most administrative units a large part of these powers have already been delegated to authorised service organisations. I'm sorry, not entirely. And as I say, the process of transferring these remaining powers is ongoing, of course, to authorised organisations that are not always able to do everything, so they need to be gradually trained to do so. However, a regulation has also been adopted which will create more competition and markets in this area. In particular, a regulation which will introduce the possibility of tendering for concession and, on this basis, granting public authority to an even greater number of authorised organisations. The number of these service providers will increase significantly in the future and will no longer be relevant criteria of distance and similar administrative criteria as they have been in force so far. I would also like to say this, or deny the belief that some media outlets have appeared, namely that the printing of the chassis number on the label is problematic in terms of car safety before theft. It's just not true. It's the opposite. In some European countries, as well as in America, they introduce chassis number labels precisely for the sake of easier and remote identification of a vehicle stolen on the road through special apparatus that is in place. Moreover, the sale of European cars to the American market is possible only if this is done first, i.e. if the vehicles have a chassis number sticker. In short, the chassis number printed on the label has nothing to do with the code that is the basis of the car key. So much for this issue and the open questions about the implementation of this project, which is under way, as I say, with some introductory problems, but when all the conditions are put in place, we believe that the quality and speed of such services will increase significantly in the coming year. At the same time, something particularly important for the administration will happen, in many ways administrative units will be burdened when this is fully transferred to authorised service organizations. With regard to the second question, I would like to answer that the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme has been prepared as planned; that social dialogue with trade unions has already been initiated, in essence, a presentation of this law has been made to trade unions already in September or perhaps even in late October; and that we are negotiating with trade unions rules on how to discuss or integrate this law into co-forming this law. Of course, the law will not be submitted to the government before we reach some fundamental consensus or at least deal with the social partners to discuss it and check whether we are able to reach this consensus. We plan to have the law tabled for Parliament's debate in March, pardon, at the February session, so that the second hearing can be held in March and the third in April; such is the plan that we intend to discuss with the union's representatives in the morning, the coordination of non-economic unions, as well as a more detailed way of including them in the individual stages of the debate on this law, particularly as regards the textual part of the law itself, and in particular the tariff annex, which is also already produced in the draft, but is not yet fully documented on the latest data on this issue. This is true of payments, of actual payments, which is the basis for the production of the tariff annex. The tariff annex will be the basis for the so-called salary scale, which is classified in approximately 60 classes and within 8 payroll groups. And the payroll groups will only present themselves in the law under two criteria. In the range from the lowest to the highest level. And following the classification of typical professions, those groups in this Annex. Of course, everything depends on how successful we will be with the social partners about this extremely sensitive project. And we anticipate that the debate on this will be very intense in the first days or weeks with the social partners of the following year, as well as a formal procedure on the Government's legislation at the end of January. However, social dialogue is expected to take place in such a way that it is possible to read until the second reading in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We can ask the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Finance, I don't know who's more competent in this case when it comes to damages in this lawsuit against the German state. Please. Mr. Secretary of State, you will. May I have your permission, Mr. Minister, to turn it off there in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you so much for asking. While the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is not competent in this matter, some clarifications can be made anyway because we are aware of the matter. Likewise, our ministry is not in any way in any way competent with regard to lawsuits abroad for damages after occupying countries in World War II. However, the Ministry is aware that complaints have been filed in Germany against various associations or societies of injured victims, such as their fate, and we have not yet been informed or aware of this. With regard to these actions, which have now been rejected at the expense of compensation for forced labour, there is a high likelihood that they were rejected because, last August, at the time they were filed, Germany passed a law on compensation for forced labour to those who experienced this violence in World War II at the expense of Germany. And the 31 December deadline for submitting applications for such compensation to all those who were forced to do so is expired this year. And now, if these individual or group actions have been rejected, it is time for them to submit their personal requests through the IOM-Organization or branch in Ljubljana, which ensure that the affected can properly fill out forms that are also available there and send them with appropriate evidence to Germany. It should also be said that Germany has also set up a special compensation fund for all those of us, as well as other victims who were seized by German companies in World War II and then distributed it to their nationals or, for example, to the nomadic Germans and so on. Of course, these applications also expire on 31.12. It is true, however, that only those who will be able to prove that some German companies today, or their successors, have contributed to this fund. As far as our ministry is concerned, however, I agree that it is right and necessary for our ministry to also inform its protectors on the basis of the law on victims of war violence correctly of this matter when we are thoroughly informed of it. In an appropriate translation, we will make sure that our guardians, who are acidic, realize the status of sacrificial violence and have, under our law, at least know what happened to these lawsuits abroad, that they do not have unnecessary costs or that they would not needlessly try to achieve anything again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petrinov, please. You can turn it off, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thanks for the heads-up. However, I must say that this response has been prepared. It was prepared by State Undersecretary of State Šuštaršič, who is leading these issues at our ministry and will examine where it is stuck that you have not received it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. If I may now allow myself this right which belongs to Members of Parliament and I think you can. Two minutes, but what's that?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u171	For the first time, I must say that, with regard to citizens' stickers, it is more expensive and more late and that this is a notorious fact. Another time. I would like Mr Bohinc to succeed in this incredible story, so that in February the law will be passed in Parliament and in April. Because I was dealing with this question last year, and I know how complicated it is. So I highly doubt that's going to be true. In particular, I would like to thank the representative, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour for the answer, because it is very important that 6531 people, who receive a negative response and who are now pressing on the parliamentary offices, get the answer after this time: Turn to IOM, Trdinov 7 - or what the address is - and hurry up with this application to still be taken into account when it comes to the enforcement of damages." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u172	The next one is Mr. Minister's. [[...]] Please. If you want, you've got all your options.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u173	I understood that the supplementary question was raised in relation to the label or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u174	No, I just said that for me, at least it's a notorious fact that it's more expensive and more late for a citizen. And there are two more documents now. One's in the glass and the other's in the pocket. You're still maintaining your traffic permit and so on. But we've mostly cleared that up. [[A voice from behind.]] If you want, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u175	I would like to say about the second observation or the second supplementary question regarding the law on salaries. I think that the success of this story depends on the extent to which we will be able to find consensus with the social partners and the extent to which we will be able to find political unity on this issue. This is a project of national importance and dimension, and I think it is up to us to propose the right solutions, which we will do; but from here on, of course, it depends on how much we are able to achieve unity on this issue, which is neither small nor very sensitive and important.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I agree. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Last week we discussed a report on the work of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in 2001. In this regard, I would particularly like to highlight the area of investment in school space, where the Ministry notes that the nine-year primary school project is a very important spatial aspect, which the Ministry is dealing with together with municipalities on the basis of a prior invitation to tender of 2.5 billion tolars per year. The Ministry of Education also notes that, on the basis of this dynamic, it is not possible to expect a solution to the spatial problem of primary schools during the time envisaged for the transition to a nine-year primary school. In the case of investment in primary school space, we also collide with Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which according to almost 30 Slovene municipalities, is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This article provides, inter alia, that according to the average per capita income in the municipality, according to the average national income, the share of the State for investments in primary education in municipalities varies from 10% to 70%. The fact is that the ratio of shares between the municipality and the state for investment in primary education lays down a completely different law and not legislation governing the field of education. Primary school is a constitutional category. Primary school is also compulsory for everyone. In addition, years ago we adopted a legal framework for a nine-year compulsory primary school, and in practice we have practically turned responsibility for the construction of primary schools to municipalities and their budgets of resources. According to calculations, the majority of compulsory children in the country attend primary school in those municipalities where the country contributes only 10 to a maximum of 30% of the funds to investment in primary school space, and from 70% to 90% of the municipality itself, of course, at the expense of other, necessary investments. I am therefore taking the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide additional funds for investment in primary school space by amending the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and the School Tolar Act accordingly and amending Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which will reduce and balance the range of shares between the municipality and the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since this was a parliamentary initiative, we continue with the questions. Mr. Joseph Bernik has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know who the first question should be, because more or less of the ministries are touching, which is a civil issue that our country has been carrying for 50 years and it is time to do something. I was quoting here a long time ago a Latin proverb, not a proverb, but a quote from a speech in the Roman Senate, "Qousque tandem Catila abutera patitia nostra" what you all know, this famous beginning of speech. This means how long "Catilina" or in this case the government will still use our patience. This question has been a multiple of principles, but I have never received a satisfactory answer. That is why I will immediately move on to the fact that I am very happy when the government has adopted the declaration, namely, the declaration on the basis of a comprehensive plan to regulate the graves of mass massacres and the adoption of laws on war graves. Now, as I understand it, this declaration has already been demolished. Anyway, I think she's going to move at least a little bit about the regulation of things that have been embarrassing us for years. I would like to ask you some specific questions. What the government intends to do on the basis of a declaration or declaration for interwar victims of the revolution. I have already asked this question to the Secretary of State, but I do not get any good answers to the fact that the government is thinking and that the government would do something here but that there is no money and similar things. Then when will it include a law to correct these people's wrongs? Furthermore, what will happen to the barbaric desecration of graves immediately after World War II? It's an unheard-of thing, and I think we should do that, too. Where are the graves killed in insinuated court proceedings immediately after the war? People don't know that. They don't know who they are. Since the declarations also speak of the interwar storm and the historical abyss, it seems necessary to re-examine events or facts and then decide what happened, no matter where the shadow falls. So I think there's also a committee for covered graves that supports this idea and I'd like to know what. I'd like a little more accurate information. But if you can't give it today, I'd like it in writing. So we'll have a starting point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Žnidršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. In view of this, the War Cemetery Act, the War Cemeteries Act, is ready for second reading and has not yet been adopted, and in this time until the adoption of the law on these issues is decided competently by the government commission for the issue of silent graves. So, I think that this Commission is now doing very well, relatively quickly, and is making appropriate proposals to the Ministry responsible for graves and also, of course, to other government authorities to do their part in this area. There was a third meeting of this committee a few days ago. There we were informed that intensive work is being done in the field of, I mean, investigations into the origin and locations of these graves. There was also a state prosecutor, Mrs Zdenka Cerar, and she has been fully reporting on this commission. So I think that the government statement in this regard is actually being implemented. It is true, however, that these procedures are long-term and that certain things or facts cannot be gathered together quickly because they are archival materials and are complicated procedures in the investigation and, of course, it is also a matter of the fact that a public invitation to tender for memorial signs will be required to regulate these graves, which the Commission will do as soon as the budget is published in the Official Journal and there will be an open green light for certain funds to be used there. In any case, we must point out that neither the Government Committee for Cemeteries nor the competent ministry thinks of anything to delay work in this area. It is true, however, that this work also requires a certain time and procedures to be respected and we will do everything possible to ensure that the civilisation standards and the pietic requirements of the victims of that time and, of course, of course, the relatives are satisfied that these tombs are regulated, marked, and that, once adopted, of course, they begin to work in accordance with the law that will come into the national assembly, I hope in the first trimester of the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, supplementary question. Here you go. Can you turn it off, Mr. Žnidaršič? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u183	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer to a question that I have not asked. That is said, I did not ask the question about the graves or the proposal for a grave bill, but about what will be included in this concern of the government covered by this declaration. In fact, I mentioned three things you didn't even talk about. And if you're not competent, please tell me. But I want a written answer to that, please. I was talking about what will happen to the victims of the revolution during the war. Now they're not included, they're not recognized anywhere. I think there's something that needs to be done. The second time I talked about what would happen when the graves were defiled after World War II. There's a whole series of questions here, if you know what I'm talking about, you'll probably agree with me. I also talked about the need for a commission, perhaps even calling it a commission for our history or whatever. So we can come clean once. On the other hand, it is also that this commission for hidden graves, as I understand it, gives it a name. And so was I, named by the government of Bajuk, and then we were forgiven without anyone knowing to this day that we are no longer members. And certainly, this commission also suffers a great deal in the financial field. And in fact, there is no right for the government to be able to give advice from time to time. Please give me a written answer about this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u185	Additional issues are not within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And I can't promise we'll give them in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Allow me, there is also the Secretary-General of the Government and I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the questions raised, Dr Bernik, is, of course, obliged to provide an additional answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Štemberger is next, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Given that a number of articles on the subject appear in the media in recent weeks, in particular in the Primorske novice, the Snežnik regional park and that the proposal for a regulation establishing the park is now being circulated through the municipalities covered by the Snežnik regional park, I am asking a question or a better said initiative to the Ministry of Environment and Space. A number of outstanding issues arise with regard to the future regional park Snežnik or its borders. In the sky a screaming case is a military range of Poček. This is undoubtedly a military exercise of national importance. The Poček military range is supposed to be a gray fox in the middle of the park. While in protected areas of the park we will almost have to whisper so that we do not disturb the nesting of birds, the cannons will be detonated at Poček and the firing of tanks. I am convinced that the Poček military training exercise is one of the most important exercises of the Slovenian army. However, the park’s borders are flawed and work in a way that mocks the future inhabitants of the Snežnik regional park. The entire park area is expected to cover a total of eight municipalities. Everything from Logatco to Illyrian Bistrica. These congregations will never be in the same region. Except for those that we will artificially create for the needs of the European Union. I myself wanted to make sure that the regional park Sneznik was accepted by the inhabitants of the Illyrian Bistrij municipality, where I come from. That's why I did a survey in the settlements that were supposed to be covered in Snowland Regional Park. These are the settlements of Bach, Knežak and Koratnica. Only 1/3 of the respondents support the inclusion of their village in the Regional Park Sneznik. The establishment of a park without their village supports only a good 20 percent of the respondents. Questioned people believe in 70 percent that the park will bring too much restraint. On the issue of information, 64 percent of people feel that they are well informed about what Snowland Regional Park is bringing them. Interesting results from individual villages. In the village of Bach, 76.5 percent of the people object to joining the park. In Corinth, as many as 80 percent of people object to being included in the park. Only 58 per cent in Knezak supports the establishment of the Regional Park Sneznik by including their village. More than 70 percent of people believe that the park will bring more restrictions than benefits. The draft government regulation establishing the Snežnik regional park now circulates through the municipalities to be covered by this park. So this is the eight congregations that will be included in the park. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Only a few municipal councillors actually come from areas that will be covered in the Snowland Regional Park. So it can happen to us that the park’s boundaries will be conceived in Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u188	Mr. Štemberger, please, if you can ask a question, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u189	Right away. Thank you very much. I'll be right there. It can happen to us that the park’s boundaries, conceived in Ljubljana and confirmed on municipal councils, will be determined by those who will never live in the park at all. I miss direct contact with the Ministry of the Environment and the area with the future inhabitants of the park. The only contact between the ministry and the future inhabitants of the park [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u190	Excuse me, Mr Štemberger, you are severely overstepping the time set for the question, that is three minutes. Please ask a question quickly, as your debate is continuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u191	I'll be right there. Excuse me. I'll be right there. It's just an initiative, not a question. So, based on a survey I did last week or in the past fourteen days, I want to present the result of this survey. So, the only contact between the ministry and the future inhabitants of the park is the newsletter that residents receive monthly. This newsletter [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u192	Mr. Stemberger, this is the third time I've warned you. Ask a question or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u193	Listen, these aren't just questions, they're initiatives. I would therefore like to propose an initiative to the Ministry of Environment and Space concerning the Regional Park of Sneznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u194	Please, in three minutes! In three minutes, that's what the rules of procedure tell you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u195	Okay, I want to apologize. I won't be more than a minute, so please let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u196	I've already allowed you three times, Mr. Stemberger. If you want to give an initiative, you can also give it in writing. Unfortunately, unless you ask a question immediately, I must take your word, because the same criterion will apply then at any time, any Member may continue for two minutes and ask the President to allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u197	Okay, I'm sorry. So I quit because you take my word for it. I find such actions of the Ministry of Environment and Space, such as listening to birds, observing bees in the park, to me, to put it mildly, to make fun of the people who are supposed to live in this park. I therefore appeal once again to the Ministry of Environment and Space or to the Environment Agency of this Ministry to re-examine the boundaries of the future regional park of Sneznik and the village of Bach, Knezak and Koritnica in the Illyrian Bistriski municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you. Yes, mag. Digger, respond to the initiative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. See, the establishment of a park - I have previously responded to Mr Celigo - follows the procedure laid down by the Nature Conservation Act of 1999. First it's a software design, then it's on a professional level, then it's pre-debate with the mayors, then it goes officially to the mayors, then it goes officially to the municipal councils, then it goes to public hearing, then it goes back to the government, then it's a once-in-a-lifetime public hearing, all of that, this process is going on right now. The debate on municipal councils will be concluded by the end of this month. Then, for the first time in February, the government will consider it, in March or April, for a bimonthly hearing, and anyone who wishes to express any reservation will be able to express it in this public hearing. Then there is a public hearing, which is also attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Perhaps it is the best opportunity to clarify some doubts or "dispel" some fears about what a park as a regime in space means at all. I think it's too much of a fear. The park is an advantage for the people living in the park and this is what we want to stress in these public debates. Thank you very much. Certainly, however, such an initiative as you have expressed here will also be expressed in public debates and will be identified.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Mr Štemberger, there is no complementary initiative. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Executive Branch of the Authority, colleague and colleague, which is still us in the National Assembly. The next question is about the situation in the Trojans, the relationship between the press Grasetto and the mining construction activity RGD Trbovlje, but not basically and entirely, is directed to the government and to which ministry. The following factual chronological facts are required for questions. On the construction site in Trojan, before 27 November, when Grasetto unilaterally terminated his contract of work with the RGD, Slovenian security guards of the G7 Security Service suddenly appeared. RGD's office was bugged with all the phone calls. 26. November at night - Slovenian security guards seized a working container, owned by RGD, and on behalf of Italians banned any communication to Slovenian builders of RGD. Slovenian G7 took over the site and banned Slovenian companies and equipment owners from accessing the site on behalf of Italians, foreigners on Slovenian territory. November 27th. The construction site of the Troyans tunnel is being taken over by the Italians. They turned locks on switch cabinets for fans, at transformers stations and at the workshop and on workshop containers, which are all listed, the property of the RGD from Trbovelje. RGD employees called the police from Domžal, who made a record at the workplace. No one's seen this record before today. The power inspector came in, demanded that the state of the legal and formal system be shut down, otherwise they'll shut down the electricity. The situation has not been resolved. The power has not been shut down. The Republic Mining Inspector, under the Mining Act, the body which oversees the implementation of the law and which protects legality, has put into service the equipment owned by the RGD from Trbovlje, which was stolen by the Italian company Grasetto at the time of its application. The Italians had no licence and no ownership rights to use. Grassetto, an Italian company unduly acquired the explosives stored in a storage facility at a location for which RGD Trbovlje is solely authorised. A Slovenian company with exclusive legal right to use the storage and protection of explosives in the middle of Slovenia was not allowed to take over explosives until 5 December. However, RGD workers responsible for explosives were removed from their area allegedly armed, allegedly, of course, armed Slovenian members of the security service. I have evidence for everything listed here. In Slovenia, which you claim is an unlawful property owned by the Slovenian company RGD from Trbovlje. He did not return it, he did not allow it to be removed, and even worse, he began to use it, meaning in the legal and formal language of the place. And this theft was supported. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u202	Mr. Barovich, we have to do the same. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u203	I'm asking a question. Thank you very much. This theft was therefore supported by Slovenian security guards, police officers and other authorities. Question: "How can a government and a number of competent ministries allow this to happen?" How is it possible that all of this happened in the Republic of Slovenia and who, by name and surname, allowed Italy's Grassetto to ban the Slovenian company from removing its property, equipment and explosives, and who allowed Slovenian security institutions to ban Slovenia's arrival on their own Slovenian land on their own Slovenian goods on behalf of a foreigner Italian?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Shaina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you so much for asking. I have to admit, I can't answer all your questions. The fact is that in the construction of the Troyan tunnel, Dars is engaged in an investment operation on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, which has concluded an implementation contract with the Italian contractor Grassetto, who has concluded a sub-contract with the RGD. Therefore, a contractual relationship between the main contractor and the subcontractor shall take place. If the subcontractor's rights have been violated, he will have to enforce them legally. I am sure that our legal authorities will be able to resolve this matter successfully also in the protection of Slovenian operators. I don't know who Grassetto has as his main contractor a contract for big business. However, I think that, especially security operations are not a matter of subcontracting contracts, but of individual performance contracts. The Ministry of Transport, aware of the relatively difficult situation created by the exclusion of a sub-contractor of RGD in the sense of slowing down in the Trojans, demanded that various inspections be included in the resolution of this problem. This is about the protection of the construction site, the protection of health, the lives of people, and the protection of the material benefits in this area. This includes a mining inspection, a traffic inspection of a construction inspection which has already carried out inspections, made records and proposed or requested appropriate measures to ensure that work on this facility can continue smoothly without any damage. As we say, once again, the relationship between Grassett, the RGD, will have to resolve the RGD on the legal path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much to the gentleman from one of the ministries listed, because I could count them, and I won't. I said that this is not about the relationship of the contractor, the subcontractor, the DARS, Grassett, and the subcontractor of the RGD. I listened to this story through the speaker on the Infrastructure Committee, but I prefer not to join, because it is good that I should not tell myself that something has happened, which is a legal and formal place. No one, no matter what right he has, can use my own resources without my permission. It's like if I was, I don't know, with some gentleman, a tenant, and this gentleman who's the landlord, me tenant, would steal from me. I won't deal with him. Slovenians must not and cannot be allowed to use their equipment unlawfully, without the consent of the owner. The problem and question was who allowed this to happen without legal basis without a signed contract. Just that, one more time. And please, all competent, I don't need an answer right now, think about what happened in Slovenia, this is unprecedented. And if anyone feels like thinking about it, wondering what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on with the RGD responsible, I use it when I let go, I don't know, something in the air. Who's to blame? So please, if anyone would like to give a written answer after checking the following data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question, mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. I have two questions. I want to set up a government first. On a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly adopted a State aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms with the current current year. Article 11 of this Law provides for the write-off of contributions to health, pension and disability insurance. And that's covered by the state budget. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has warned the competent authorities that this Article cannot be implemented. Regardless of the fact that the end of the tax year is approaching, I am asking whether the government or the competent ministries will draw up mandatory instructions to the competent authorities in order to be able to initiate these procedures, which will allow write-offs to be made on the basis of this law. So this is a matter for the government. The next question I would like to ask the Minister of Defence or those present if they can answer. The Ministry of Defence launched an invitation to purchase 90 trucks this year. The invitation to tender clearly set out the criteria and conditions for the invitation to tender, so the invitation to tender was assessed as very good, quality and professionally prepared. The four types of vehicles of the four companies that applied have been tested. Others were also verified, the tendering procedure required. According to my information, a company was selected on the invitation to tender, which apparently is not of the will of some influential economists. A company run by a director with a very resounding name has been excluded. It should be said that this company, which was excluded, had already been eliminated at the beginning of the tender, i.e. it did not meet the conditions, and also for 400 million Slovenian tolars their offer was more expensive. It is clear that the contract will not be signed by the end of this year, so the terms of the tender will cease to apply. I would like to know why the Ministry does not adhere to the tendering conditions that it has set itself. I'm asking how you're going to make this call, so how are you going to get these 90 cars? Are you going to decide, "for the good of the country", just without a call? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Who would like to answer from government representatives because the question was not addressed directly to the carriers? Minister of the Environment Mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u211	The first question, or I didn't understand that it would be addressed to us, I think it is more of a matter for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, nevertheless. I must say that I do not know this opinion of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and I think that in coordination with the Ministry of Finance - the representative is now absent - we will jointly prepare an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dr. Time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u213	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to apologize to Dr. Anton Grisold, who is away, in Brussels. I must say that in the Ministry of Defence, we are putting a great deal of emphasis on procurement, and that is why we also have adopted certain regulations, a law on the provision of funds for the implementation of basic programmes, a programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian military, including some other programmes, all in order to make the use of budgetary resources as cost-effective and transparent as possible. I am convinced that in this case, we are also doing what is right in accordance with the rules. In this regard, of course, we have a job to do. As for the specific question, however, I would hope to say that I know that this invitation to tender has been made, I think that there were four offers that we have accepted. I am sure that the choice has not yet been made and no contract has yet been signed. I thank you for this warning. I'm going to take a personal look at this and also let you know the result of this, in the hope that everything is all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I am asking the question of Minister Rad Bohinc and Minister Ivan Bizjak. The case of the Šoštarič family from Domžal has been exposed several times to media exposure. In the last year, all the highest authorities and individuals were informed of it, and the epilogue was due to be given to the State or to the highest representatives of the authorities in the lobby of the National Assembly tomorrow. A specific example is the connection to the twelve-theater building in which the Šošštarič family has lived since 1994. In 1999, a new family named Adilović moved into another apartment. There was a conflict between the families. According to known information, the Šošštarič family became a victim of violence and was denied access to their apartment on the first floor. The threats, which were also physical, led to the fact that the Šostjarič family and three young children were forced to move away for safety reasons in September 2000 and currently reside in a rental apartment in a secret location. However, the police have acted several times. During this period, it carried out 11 interventions. They filed 3 criminal charges for the suspicion of a crime, but in Shoštarič's view it was very milky, but certainly so that the weaker in this story was forced to withdraw and flee their own apartment to protect themselves and the lives of their children. Even on the way to court, the case is being resolved very slowly. While the Court has concluded the proceedings in terms of trespassing, it is still not possible for the family to access their apartment and, therefore, is forced to seek judicial protection. At the district court in Domžal, the case was not to be dealt with until the end of 2002. The case is due to the request and petition of fellow Ukrainians, who also point out this problem, which makes them no longer feel safe, to intimidation and violence in the immediate and remote surroundings caused by a person who is not even a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, according to our information. This case was also addressed by the municipal council of the Municipality of Domžale. Despite numerous decisions and requests, the matter has not moved anywhere. In their replies, they all stated that they had done all they could to enable Slovenian law and regulations, and that the congregation would try to help the family by granting a social housing. My question, which has been raised, is whether the State of Slovenia will be able to protect its citizens and citizens, their fundamental human rights and the protection of their property, no matter how they are, and in what way they implement the laws, because it is written in all the answers that all the authorities have carried out. And this family is currently in illegality, in a tenant's apartment, and at high cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Minister? Mr. Molan, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u217	Dear Chairman! Dear Members and Members! In particular, the question referred to a specific case, a specific name, that is, a specific person who is not personally known to me and would hardly answer what the police have done. We will request from the police a detailed report on the measures in the case of Šoštarič and then we will give you a written, written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Bizjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u219	Well, with this case alone, except for the media, I have not been informed, I do not know that anyone with a supervisory complaint, which is the only instrument in which the Ministry of Justice can perform, would address our ministry. So, if this is the case, we will check in what state of the court proceedings are still open, and you yourself have mentioned that one of the proceedings has already been legally completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Would you like a further question, ma'am? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u221	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, as well as to the Minister of the Interior or to the whole government, namely the following. The Mayor of the Municipality of Trebnje, Mr Pungartnik, appointed a new director of the public company Komunal Trebnje, Mr Jarc, one year ago, although the statute of the municipality of Trebnje in Article 19 provides that the directors of public services shall be appointed and dismissed by the municipal council. In order to avoid the serious consequences of the unlawful situation, the Communal Supervisory Board of the District Court of Novo Mesto proposed that, pursuant to Article 251 of the Company Act, he appoint a temporary perpetrator of the Director's duties. The District Judge in New Town, Mr Panjan, is a description of v.d. The Director rejected the decision to which the Supervisory Board had appealed to the higher court in Ljubljana, which had granted the complaint, and the contested decision of the Regional Court in Novigrad had been annulled and brought the matter back to a re-decision. The role of the Supervisory Board in the New Town District Court has again been rejected, explaining that the Supervisory Board is not a party to the proceedings. In addition to this decision, the Supervisory Board of the Commune complained to the higher court in Ljubljana, which again accepted the complaint of the Supervisory Council and returned the case to the district court with the proposal that the court determine whether they held the claims of the Supervisory Board that the company did not have a director. The judge of the district court, Mr Panjan, called for a hearing five months later, although he was already well aware of the case and, in the view of the Supervisory Board-in view of the unlawful situation in the Communal, he expected the occurrence of major damage, as the illegally appointed Director was supposed to have made investment transactions at the level of ca at that time. 160 million tolars without the economic plan or conclusions of the municipal council. Members of the Municipal Council also addressed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs an application for a decision in a dispute concerning the competence of the appointment of a director of a public undertaking, but their role was rejected by the Ministry, explaining that members of the municipal council are not parties to the procedure. The Minister of Justice, Minister of the Interior, I ask: Do you feel able to establish a legal order at national and local level? When will the persecution of politically corrupt ties begin at national and local level? Those ties that sometimes resemble Balkan or "cosa nostra" customs that can make life bitter for many citizens. I wish we didn't apologize for the autonomy of the judiciary. It is primarily the responsibility of the Government or the Minister mentioned to establish the mechanisms of the acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much. First word to the Minister, mag. Bizjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u223	So, unfortunately, I will have to say something similar that you do not want to hear, but it is simply not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to decide on such disputes within local self-government. Of course, there are certain possibilities that the law also gives to the Ministry of Justice regarding the course of the proceedings. If, as a party to the procedure, the Supervisory Board were to contact the Ministry, at least on time conditions and reasons, all the necessary information could be obtained. However, I am afraid that they may have also turned to the wrong address and that this has not led to a key issue being decided. This is all I can say about a particular case, which, of course, I don't know, which I don't have in front of me, in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Molan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u225	I would like to join the opinion of the Minister of Justice. So the Ministry of the Interior's response apparently had a legal basis. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior is not competent to resolve disputes in the appointment of the Director of Public Enterprises, and in this case it was obviously not competent. We will re-examine the matter and see if there have been any errors in the process, but we believe that other authorities are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Sugar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u227	Well, there are other strange things going on in Trebnje, namely, that the municipal council adopted the statute of the municipal company, but the mayor refused to issue a decision on the adoption of the statute, which made it impossible to register the necessary amendments to the statute. In his report, the Supervisory Board of the Commune noted, among other things, that there was a presumption of a black fund with which the Director, the so-called Director, had been at his disposal for three years - with funds of 90 million tolars. And rather than allowing the court, at least the Court of Auditors, to rule in Trebnje that the President of the Supervisory Board must pay the Director 900,000 tolls of compensation for the offending charge. The National Assembly will also discuss the discharge of Mayor Velika Polane because the municipal council did not want to consider the mayor's proposal for a municipal budget. But how - I now ask the specific government, because obviously not one minister or another is not competent, no one is competent, but the government: How should we deal with cases where individuals, contrary to the law and the statute, make a decision against all legal provisions of taxpayers? How, even if the judiciary doesn't know, can't or won't get on their toes? Who is ultimately responsible for becoming a rule of law? Who if it's not government? Well, so that I don't have to be convicted of insulting charges myself, I'm handing you photos of 28 documents that prove the credibility of my statements; because I don't know who to hand them to, because there's no one responsible, I'm just going to hand them over - I don't know, to the Secretary of Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I would like to answer your supplementary question, Minister Mag. Bizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u229	Well, that's all I want to say. In some cases, the court mentioned this issue. Any criminal liability, of course, will be decided by the Court on the basis of appropriate procedures. But you didn't tell me if any charges were made. So that would be the information that would allow us to verify whether this indictment was properly processed by the prosecution or perhaps earlier by the police. These are things that need to be taken one step at a time, but we can't just put a little bit of the Court of Auditors in the same room. I think that every problem needs to be specifically those time-sorry complaints, and I don't think I can comment on it anyway, at least on my part. [[...]] There are legal remedies available here and which can be used. In any event, however, the problem, as presented, should be broken down into those matters which are within the competence of the Ministry responsible for local self-government along this line, on matters which are within the purview of the police, on those matters which have already been brought before the judicial authorities and which should be examined there as to what has been done in the specific case and why it has not been done if it has not been. And, let's say, if the decision was taken by the Court of Auditors, it would also look at how it came to be done, which is again, I would say, another story. It is so possible to explain that it would not seem as if no one in this country knew what was to be done. I think it's quite clear on what matter the body has something to do. And it is also probably right that when we talk about these things in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we should specify the individual issue that is then under discussion. To such questions, of course, I will always try to give a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, will also give you an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you. I'd just like to complement the Minister. I think he said everything. If I had now received what you, Mr Member, handed over, acted roughly like that, the act would have been roughly the same as what you have now condemned. None of what you have said falls within the power of the government and I do not want to give you the impression or give you the feeling that any of your questions have been solved by handing over a piece of paper on which no one in the government is competent to judge the credibility of your statements. On the contrary, in some way, you are forcing us to comment on the legal decisions that are just judged because the court has ruled as it has. We, as the executive branch of power, cannot interfere. After all, we can fully trust you, but we can't. You have told your side of the medal, but the court is to judge which side is right, and therefore, of course, what you have given me I do not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, sir, but you don't have any further questions. I think we've exhausted that part. The next question is the question of the Magi. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to raise a question with the Minister of Informatics regarding the implementation of the 158th Main Law on Telecommunications. He probably knows that we passed this law this year, and this law also provides that the National Assembly will adopt a special law within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, which will provide for the return of citizens to the telecommunications network. This is supposed to be a burden for the privatisation of Telekom. There was a very interesting debate at the time, and you mentioned that this is actually a very small problem that we will be able to solve quickly. Clearly, this problem is not such a small relationship or something else. The law says: in six months. This time has run out, and he who has also committed himself has not fulfilled it. It's a violation of the law. In violation of the law, ministers and the government vowed to abide by the law and the laws. I wonder: Why are you violating this provision, and where is this bill? On the other hand, I would like to ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Sport. I raised a question already in September - or my colleague - regarding the subsidy of students staying with private people. The invitation to tender was granted and a new invitation to tender was granted. We once warned that we would receive an answer, for the promise was made. And now I'm wondering, what's with the invitation? Have you forgotten it or will you continue and execute those who are contentious? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. First Minister, Dr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Petty Officer, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, it's short, where the law is. The law is in interdepartmental coordination and already in government procedure. At the moment, we are still coordinating certain views and opinions, particularly the environment, mechanisms, returns - as we would call it - of the overpaid contributions to the construction of the local telephone network. At the time when we discussed the deadlines, both in the National Assembly and in particular in the Infrastructure Committee, I pointed out that the six-month period for drafting a law that could have serious financial implications, of course, is a short time, and I said that we would try to do everything possible to adopt it at that time. However, as it is said, I am also responsible for sending this law to Parliament, not only in due time, but also in the law that I can stand by and also be responsible for the consequences of this law. This is also part of my responsibility, just as great as that first part that you mentioned. It is true that the law was not adopted within the statutory time limit, but it is true that, because it was not adopted, no future material rights of the beneficiaries of this law were violated because, as it is said, the law or return on investments related to the privatisation of Telekom. And this, as you know, has never happened before. And it certainly won't happen until the law is passed. I expect the marriage to come to the National Assembly shortly after the new year and it will be possible to include it in one of the first meetings in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Tomažič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Mr Member, you received a written answer to your question on 13 this month. These are precisely the issues that you have now raised again and that you have been informed that the subsidies have been regulated as they were before. This is said to be the case in the student homes of 3,000, in the student private homes of 7 and in the private sector of 9,000 tolars of subsidies and that the need for a new invitation to tender or that there was no need for a new invitation to tender because it was found that, above all, there were still a lot of vacancies in the private sector in Maribor, that, of course, the student homes in Ljubljana were in a completely different position and that the new tender would not actually bring any additional quality. That's the answer you got on the 13/12.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u239	An additional question to this last answer. See if an invitation to tender was issued, where the amount of the subsidy was 3,000, and then you, at your own discretion, raised it, did not do the right thing. This should be indicated in the invitation to tender. Because this is the way you've been deceiving those who wanted to run. You're the one who put $3,000 in the contract. If we look at what 3,000 tolars means when a regular contract is to be concluded - students did not make decisions in most cases because they said because they considered it irrelevant or did not contribute to relief. You didn't do well. We also mentioned to you at that time and suggested that the invitation to tender should be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Mr. Tomažic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u241	What a particularly clever answer here is now impossible. Of course you had this attitude, the ministry had its own. You got the answer in that. Now, was this case really the way you say it was - it's possible to discuss it, but probably not right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The next one is for the question of the question of the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Bogomir Vnučec, which is not in the Chamber. That's why I'm giving my word to Mr. Jank Webra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u243	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The question I am referring to the Ministry of Economy, because the difficult economic situation in the municipality of Kočevje and neighbouring municipalities, Kostel, Osilnica and Loško Potok dictates the necessity of the Ministry of Economy being involved in the resolution of the situation. The Municipality of Kočevje and the Development Centre of Pokolpje have prepared a business plan for the arrangement of the business zone Breg pri Kočev. This provides for the transfer of facilities and land managed by the RS Office for Commodities Reserves to the ownership or use of the municipality for the development of the economy. The business plan itself is also included in the regional development programme of South-Eastern Slovenia, which is in the final phase. I therefore ask the Ministry of the Economy: how far is the procedure for transferring that state property to the municipality? At the same time, I point out the urgency of the early decision, because delay is a loss of programmes that have been waiting too long for a decision by the Ministry, which must first and foremost decide whether it will give priority to development incentives or to the interest of the RS Office for Freight Reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you. Dear Member, Mr. Janko Weber! We are aware that the development of the business zone of Breg and the business area of Kočev is very important for the development of this municipality and its surroundings, but the facts to be taken into account in this particular case are set here. First of all, the buildings listed above are not state property in the direct sense, but the property of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves, which is a separate legal person. This facility, which is a warehouse of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for trade reserves, is not intended for sale or transfer to the property of the municipality, since it is an object necessary for the storage of state reserves. However, in the previous interviews, we have agreed on the possibility of selling land outside the fence of that warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u247	I would understand this answer if, of course, I did not participate in some of the discussions when we were actually preparing solutions to regulate this business area. The fact is that the RS Department of Freight Reserves would be without this facility if the fire went forward. Or rather, at the moment that bone-meat flour was stored in this warehouse, there was a fire and only because of the rapid intervention of firefighters from Kočev, this facility was preserved in the same form as it was today. At that time, too, it was made clear mainly by the RS Department for Trade Reserves that it was ready to discuss that they no longer needed this facility for their needs. I am also sure that the actual RS Office for Trade Reserves, to the extent that it has facilities, is immediately beyond the needs of the Republic of Slovenia, and I think that more efforts should be made, so that it can be done by the Ministry of Economy or, in particular, by this Ministry, which is ultimately also responsible for the implementation of the law on coherent regional development. At least I expected a response in this direction so that some other solutions could be expected to address this economic situation in this area. Therefore, I am asking an additional question: Are they considering any other solution to make this economic situation actually amiss in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Dr. Antončič, would you like to give an additional answer? Secretary of State, Mr. Strmšnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you very much. So, the issue of regional development in Kočevska is one of the priority issues we are dealing with. We are looking for solutions to the Breg Zone, which is already in place, which has access to the railway track, which is a suitable location - it is said that solutions would be found to enable the development of economic activity and the expansion of this zone. We believe that the moves already made by the Ministry of the Economy in the context of finding the possibility of transferring certain facilities for production purposes indicate a positive attitude of the Ministry in solving this problem. Of course, the issue of transmission itself is a difficult issue, because we are implementing it for the first time under this law on the promotion of coherent regional development. We will continue to seek agreement with the context of the enlargement of this zone, which would be acceptable to both sides, as well as in the context of the implementation of the implementation part of the regional development programme of South-East Slovenia, which we expect to reach in the short term, we intend to pay attention to this area and take the necessary steps. We expect this regional development programme to arrive. It will be addressed in the world for structural policy and it will then be an opportunity to open up certain issues concerning different sources, such as transport links, rail links and other matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Janc, the next one is due to ask the question. I don't think he's here. That is why it is the turn of Mr Joseph Jerovšek, who is not. I give my word to Mr. Ivan Mamich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I have questions from the ground, such a specific question, and I want a concrete answer, as well as in writing. In fact, he came to my office as a farmer, and he told me that. He said: I put a cow in a slaughter, I got 300 tolars a kilo - paid for a kilo of meat. 100 tolars were taken away and slaughtered by a cow, which is 25 percent. The next day I went to the butcher shop, saw that the meat was boneless, or 1,300 tolars. The average price is probably around 1,000. He wants to know, "Where's that 700 tolar?" These are, of course, approximate, but I think it's a pretty accurate figure. And I ask you kindly to give me this answer in writing so that I can show it to that man. The second question came by mail from the mayor of Nova Gorica. It says so. This is for the Ministry of Transport. "With great dissatisfaction, I read the entry in the Journal of Work on 11.12.2001, which does not include the Vipava-Razdrto section in the plan until 2005. Let me draw your attention to some facts. This section was already envisaged in the 1980s in the so-called AC Nova Gorica-Sentilj. For that section, the Italian government approved 24 billion lire of credit to the Republic of Slovenia. There's a thousand trucks going through the Vertace crossing every day. The international border crossing has only about 20 per cent lower cargo realisation than the port of Koper. All these facts were not taken into account in the criteria for determining the priority order, but only the number of vehicles which is actually slightly lower than those against Koper or Zagreb. All of this shows that it is still a matter of neglecting the economic potential of northern Primorska. We are confident that the government and the Parliament will also take our arguments into account and include in this programme a section of the Vipava-Zdrto Fast Road. Good-bye." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Sterling, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. So, as far as this relationship between farmer and slaughterhouse is concerned and so on, it is covered by the department, but now precisely on this particular question, of course, I would not know the answer right now. That's how we'll try to send a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Shaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador Mamich! The section of the fast road Vrtojba-Zdrto, between Vipava and Razdrtima, is in the national programme or rebalancing of the national programme for the construction of motorways, as well as in the annual plan Darsa for 2001, with preparatory parts, land purchases, design and so on. The proposal, which is now under consideration at the Ministry of Transport, the Dars proposal for 2002 and 2003 provides for the start of preparatory work and work in this section. As it will continue to be built and at what rate this section will be built, it depends on several sources, of course it also depends mainly on the petrol toll and also on credits of particular importance to the Italian interest-free credit. The government, and later Parliament, will also consider a new rebalancing when it is ready, based on the starting points that are still in preparation. So, the construction will continue. It depends on how fast it is. The current, current national programme rebalancing sets priorities and, in line with these priorities, will thus build this section - as well as other sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Complementary question? No, no, no. It's Dr. Andrey Bajuk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have two questions. The first is for the Ministry of Finance, and the second I think it is for the whole government, but perhaps the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour will be able to respond. About the Ministry of Finance. It's a matter of the Ministry of Finance. We have a Securities Market Agency in Slovenia. And this is the institution that in our country is entrusted with the supervision of the securities market. This is said to be the institution which, if I am not mistaken, would have to take care of transparent and legal trade in this market in the last five years. Of course, especially in New Slovenia, we are concerned about the process of concentration of capital in a new society, which is a source of great problems for our common future. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the activity of this institution, the Securities Market Agency, in our area is relatively poorly recognised. This is not the last time in 2001 that even the participants of a seminar reported by the Finance Officer for a long time. Especially in recent times when the concentration of capital is being very accelerated, if we may say so. Given that, under the securities market law, the Agency is only obliged to report to the National Assembly once a year and that its annual reports do not find their way to the agenda of the National Assembly and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for its work, as the Ministry of Finance proposes its Director and the President of the Council of Experts, we ask you: How do you assess its work? However, we also ask you a specific question: How many times since 1993 and how many times in the last year have the Securities Markets Agency exercised control over securities trading in BTC? We ask you: Did the Agency monitor the purchase of BTC's own shares that took place this year and was concluded at yesterday's BTC Assembly? We want to know: Is the first larger purchase, which may be a sample for a wider phenomenon, carried out in accordance with the applicable company law and securities market law? Please, of course, for written reply and oral if possible, but I do not know if any representative is present. The second question is related to Article 65 of our Constitution. There we have written down, and I am very proud of how our country has regulated the relationship to minorities, of course, and article 65 speaks of the Roma community. That's where we wrote it down, and that's our commitment to resolve this matter through law. After ten years of marriage, I would like to know: Does the government plan to resolve this issue once and for all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will answer your first question, Mr Tolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Bayuk. You actually gave me an answer point. We'll give you a thorough written answer to your question. Of course, we will have to ask the Management of the Securities Market Agency, which is a stand-alone supervisory institution for the functioning of the securities market. The International Monetary Fund mission, which in 1999 checked the ability of the Slovenian financial system to fulfil the conditions in force in the European Community, of course had a number of comments to improve the work of these institutions. However, in its report, it expressed no doubts that it would not be able to exercise and improve control over the situation on the securities market. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you whether and how many times they have checked the privatisation method or procedures relating to BTC; this we will try to provide in writing, given that these data are also not received from the Securities Market Agency by the Ministry of Finance. As with the other two financial market agencies or 29 institutions, it is also considered not to be obliged and not to report to the Ministry of Finance, which is somehow responsible to the public and to the external institutions for the control of the functioning of these institutions, what it controls and what conclusions it finds. The Ministry will, of course, soon begin to play its role more fully when it appoints its representative to be vacant in the world of this institution. A representative who, on behalf of the Ministry, will supervise the work and also influence the higher level of supervision. This year, we also had the opportunity to get acquainted with the so-called 'Pir Review' or the European Community Special Commission's residence review, which was composed of representatives of such institutions for the supervision of all parts of the financial system, and this also in its interim report to the Republic of Slovenia, found that the level of control is first of all for the banking system, and then, of course, for the securities market, it is possible to improve it. There is, of course, a slightly different situation in the supervisory institution for the insurance system, which has in fact been being built since 2000. As long as the Securities Market Agency is the one who has failed to carry out its control duties in this case, as you have mentioned, and in other cases, we will, of course, require them as well as that a very detailed report on what it has done and whether there have been procedures - as you asked, Dr. Bayuk - are perfectly legal, in accordance with Slovenian legislation. But certainly more about this in a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The second question will be answered by the Magi. Bizjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thus, with regard to the legal regulation of the situation of the Roma national community, in accordance with Article 65 of the Constitution. The government will soon send an answer to the almost identical question posed by Mr Janša, so I think the majority will be clear from this. I would briefly take it away, thus finding that a special protection law for the Roma national community is not necessary but can be adopted. However, it is possible to regulate such issues in sectoral legislation, which is already being done. Secondly, what I would like to say as President of the Government Commission for the Protection of the Roma National Community is that this Commission has a special law issue on the agenda tomorrow, from a specific point of view. In fact, all the departments were asked to examine issues that such a special law could or should handle. By looking at whether such a law makes any sense on this basis; that is, if the issues that belong to a specific law are, then, a special arrangement that would apply exclusively or specifically to the Roma national community. Otherwise, if these issues are not so much as to require a special law, this will be, as has been the case in part so far - regulated in sectoral legislation, for each area individually; where the issues on which this national community needs to be specifically supported or protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Complementary question and, of course, one comment. I am pleased that what Mr Minister has reported will be the meeting of this committee tomorrow, which must take care of the protection of the Roma community in Slovenia. Perhaps it would finally be good to include in your agenda a question and to address what has happened to the Roma Employment Programme, which the government has already adopted and is not being implemented. Where is it, and why is it not being realized? As for the comment, however, to the Secretary of State, I would like to say that if the delegation of the International Monetary Fund could read Slovenian newspapers and once read that the internal purchase of newspapers, of course, was beyond what the law on economic societies allows us to speak. 60% when the marriage was 10% and now the novel 20. Then we would certainly ask ourselves what is the strange side of the course of illegal activities our legislation and our institutions are capable of doing so. The hair would go to them at the end, just like all of us. But I'm sure I'll get the right answer, because I'm sure even at the Ministry of Finance as a whole of Slovenia, you're probably wondering how it's even possible that one handful of people became the owner of the whole BTC system, and now they're still working on strange routes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The next one is for the question of the question of the question, Mr Alojz Sok, which is not between us. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the representatives and representatives of the government for the answers given. At the same time, I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. We will begin our consideration of item 2 of the agenda, then continue our meeting with item 3 and in order to proceed. Thank you so much and good night.
