ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, good morning. Please, if you can insert the cards so you can find out if we are concluding and, of course, started working. There are currently 44 cards, apparently, which means there's not enough of us yet. I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I welcome everything! I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings: Anton Delak, Pavel Rupar, Mario Gasparini, Branko Kelemina, Franc Čebulj, Bogdan Barovič, Anton Partljič, Jelko Kacin, Marko Diaci, Ivan Kebrič from 13.30 p.m. on, Roberto Battelli, Franz Kangler, Richard Beuermann from the beginning of the session, Milan Kopushar, Jožef Spindler, Ljubo Germič and Mirko Zamernik. I ask that we rediscover our presence in the Chamber because new Members are constantly coming. How many of us are there right now? I note that 53 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. We invited the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome him very much. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the discontinued 10th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on censuses, households and housing in the Republic of Slovenia in 2001; then the assembly will move on to the 22nd item, this is a proposal for a law on the height of the children's allowance. The assembly will follow up on the proposals for international treaty ratification laws and then move on to the third item, this is the proposal of the Veterinary Act, and perhaps then, in the order of the 11th item, this is a proposal for a law on customs measures in respect of infringements of intellectual property rights and in the order of the following order. So we're at 10. Agenda items - second reading - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Census of Populations, Landscaping and Housing in the Republic of Slovenia in the year 2001 - Quick procedure. On 28 March, in the context of the second reading of the proposal, the National Assembly closed the debate on Article 8 and the amendment tabled by Mr Dusan Vukko. Member Dušan Vukko later changed his proposed amendment and you have it on the bench. This is said to have been the debate, but it is true that you received Mr Vukko's complementary amendment on the bench yesterday and you were able to study it at that time. Mr. Peterle has a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Given that this is obviously a sensitive topic, and given that we have received the amended amendment, I think it would be right, but we can also discuss this because the new fact is before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	So, the procedural proposal is that the debate on Article 8 - given that the content has been supplemented and transmitted yesterday, when we did not discuss it - should be allowed; it is said to have continued and not closed. So we are not discussing procedural proposals, we can only vote. That is why I am putting to the vote Mr Peterlet's proposal. The proposal is that, in the light of the foregoing, we continue to discuss Mr Vukko's amendment. We're voting. Of the 54 Members and Members, 22 voted against 26. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that Mr Peterlet's procedural proposal is not accepted. This way we can proceed with the vote on the amendment to Article 8. I would like to remind you that it will be quite clear what we are voting on, this is the material marked "number 10, Ljubljana, 29.3.2001", the date is 29.3. In order not to be mistaken, this is the amended amendment to Article 8 drawn up by Mr Dusan Vukko. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I have been discussing this issue all the time in a way that would contribute to making this inventory comparable to those of earlier times. I think he's introducing an amendment to Article 8, something that people have not been used to in the censuses so far, and I don't even know the global case that a family member or, say, simply [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Excuse me, Mr. Peterle. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	In order to obtain consent, written consent, not only verbally - if it were verbally, it would be slightly different - a written agreement that in his absence he could tell what nationality or religion he is, although it is clear that the family member of this status - probably knows his people and will not lie about them in the list. [[...]] In this I see a strong lack of confidence, but above all from the point of view of the census methodology, this is a novelty, which I suppose will lead to less expression, because people of this kind have never experienced the bureaucracy of the census or the formalization of the census, and it will be some kind of pressure that this path will have to write for the first time; you know that we also have people who do not have the best of hands. And they could still be teasing them that consent is not the right thing to do or do, and so on. In short, I think there's some kind of paper war going on, completely unnecessary. I am afraid that in this way the census results will not be comparable to those of the previous ones, because, in my opinion, the methodology of enumeration is substantially changing. And there will be some elements here that have not been found in previous censuses and people have responded normally, but now it will require written consent. And, of course, I think that in such a case this question in such a modified methodology makes no sense, because comparability will no longer be and the conclusions on this basis will probably be very questionable. So, I'm going to vote against this amendment for the reasons I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Drobnic and Mr Tsukati have an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! With such an amendment, we will introduce a strange practice in Slovenia to betray children for their parents, who have legal and constitutional representation - that is to say that they have a consensus. This deviates from the basic heading, that is, the basic basis for parents to represent the marriage fully. This opens up a new matter that will shed some bad light on this census. So, you take parental rights under the law, and of course that's not good. I will therefore vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Mr. Cuckoo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Your Honor! If we accept this amendment, of course, none of these members will be present when the questioner arrives in the family, no one is obliged to make a written statement. This means that everyone will have to be asked, and the questioner will have to reach each family member individually. This means double the cost of the inventory. I guarantee you double costs, because the questioner will have to come to the family three times to get to the individual family members. For this reason, because of such a high cost, which such a senseless proposal actually introduces, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	The draft amendment pointed to a problem that, despite the Secretariat's warning on legislation in its vote in Article 5, we wanted to ignore. There the provision of the Constitution was not essential to us, and it has now been shown to be respected and respected in various ways. Whether the proposed solution is best given the time we are doing so is possible debate. But it's an emergency. If we do not take these decisions in Article 8 and if the proposed decisions of the amendments to Article 10 are not taken, the content of the law will be contrary to the Constitution. This is not my opinion, and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has also pointed out this. This was made clear also in Mrs Bitenchev's explanation at the meeting - I speak clearly because it was not clear depending on the voice, I have misheard, so I went to the magnetogram brother and in the magnetogram it is perfectly clear. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't just want to wash our faces and say it's all one thing, we can do it because we're describing something else, and we're describing it, then we have to vote for this amendment. And I will vote for him. If we decide that this issue is in the census, religion and now nationality, even though the constitutional provisions on religion and nationality are not exactly the same. It's as strict as it is in religion, it's nowhere. And only in the matter of religion does he have a direct provision that no one is obliged to make a statement against his will to do so. There is no provision on nationality, but if this is a proposal, it is also possible to align these two. It is not possible to respect the Constitution if we do not resolve it properly. And for the children, for the last time in my debate, I have warned, there is only the third paragraph of Article 41, which clearly states that the way to deal with this issue must be in law. It is not possible to leave behind instructions on what a absent child can or cannot do. He can't, Mr Banovac, 8,000 to 9,000 censusers or each one of his own, once and for all, and possibly change his position, just as the positions of the statistical office and the government have changed over the last few months on this fundamental issue. This must be the content of the law and that is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you. I do not wish to interfere with your right to an explanation of vote, but please, given that we have already discussed this quite a bit, to try to be as rational as possible in this explanation, so that we do not repeat the debate. Next explanation for the vote, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. So in a nutshell: I will vote against this amendment because I am deeply convinced that this is technically impossible. Look, I think we've lost our minds. A 15 - year - old child will have to give his parents the authority to tell his parents not only what religion he or she belongs to, but count on parents to tell them which nationality he or she belongs to. That's impossible. So these censusers are going to come back a couple of times to one house. And already the cost of 3 billion is 300, and then you can imagine what the cost will be in the end! So I suggest you withdraw this amendment or think carefully about what you are proposing. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, please. A voice explanation, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Yes, of course I will vote in favour of this amendment, because I am also a proponent. However, I see that this is a complete misunderstanding and inability to understand what the basic purpose of this amendment is. And I wouldn't be too long, and perhaps I would just say that, sir, Comrade Potts, in most of his discussions, he took on what he was meant to do. The purpose was to make the marriage consistent from the point of view of the Constitution and nothing else. By voting in favour; of course, in the third reading, we will be able to open a debate on this if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not vote on this amendment on my own, because I think it is unrealistic to open up in explanation of vote to virtually misplaced topics, but the representative of the proposer has no opportunity to explain certain things if what we accept is even feasible. That's why I'm not even going to define myself for this amendment because I think it's not serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Mr. Sponik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. There is no controversy or comment on the performances of other fellow Members; some of you have done so. I will not support this amendment on my own, but the third is that if it is adopted, it is very important to ask representatives of the national communities first. This is a typical amendment for which we should have the consent of the national communities before that. I think that the proposaler has written down too quickly also nationality, needlessly. In any event, if the amendment is voted on, it will have to be substantially amended in the third reading. He himself supported him in the second heaven, for he unnecessarily included national belongings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Excuse me. Another explanation for the voice. Mr. Bernick. Please, if this thing goes any faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. If we accept this amendment, we will carry strange luggage into the European Union. Otherwise, if we are truly an example to the world, it will be some strange example that we will set for the whole world, for this is absolutely incredible what is happening here. I would like to ask, however, and this to the proposer's gentleman [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	I'm sorry, that's not possible. You can't ask, it can only be explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Well, the explanation is that this cannot be done because the applicant did not say how he imagined this would happen at all. I would like to hear that, but if I can't ask, think for yourself about what technical problems will be, what will be required for this signature, whether it will be necessary for the notary to do so in advance and in a similar way. I'd like to hear that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. There's no more explanation for the voice. Well, we're voting. I note that from 59 Members and Members of Parliament voted 29 to 25 Members and Members. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that Mr Wolf's amendment has been adopted. We are now voting on Article 8 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 25 Members and Members voted in full for Article 8 against 24. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We're moving on to Section 9. I am putting in the debate Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9, of course. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. Of the 60 present, 28, 16 voted against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment to Article 9 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 9 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 58 present, 41 votes to 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 9 has been adopted. Here I now remind you of one of the materials you've received. This is Mr Dusan Wolf's amendment to Article 10. This is a special sheet of paper, if you're so kind and look at your material. It's not in this next piece of paper, it's on a single sheet, it's on a special sheet of paper. The date is 28. 3. This is Article 10a - amendment for new Article 10a. Who wants to discuss the new Article 10a? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to take a look at Article 10a for possible misunderstandings. Article 10a is not related to decisions taken under Article 8. Whether we are satisfied with these decisions or not, Article 10a should be adopted if we are to satisfy at least the whole concept of the law. It is clear that if we were to describe, collect data on nationality and religion contrary to the second and third paragraphs of Article 10 that this must also be one of the elements of criminality for an offence, otherwise the basic guarantee for the proper execution of the census is not provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	This is a criminal provision, in the part where the infringement occurs. And whenever a censuser, irrespective of how the provision of paragraphs 1 and 2 will be adopted, if, contrary to Article 10, he describes it, he shall be responsible. It's a felony. I have also tabled this amendment on the Secretariat's recommendation, when we have, of course, reviewed it - in view of the amendment previously tabled to Article 8. However, the final wording is likely to be needed if there are any inconsistencies in the final text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Well, it happens anyway, by the way, that's how it's done. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the 10th, on the new 10th Article, and Mr Vukko has prepared the text. We're voting, please. Of the 58 present, 32 Members and Members voted in favour of the amendment - for the new 10th article, 9 of them opposed. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that Article 10a has been adopted. We go to chapter: Final provisions, on page 4 of the material, point 1. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on point 1 and move on to the vote on point 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 39 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] Point 1 is hereby adopted. Then to the title of the law. That won't be necessary. Thank you. Good. This is why point 1 has been adopted. We have yet to vote, now that we have had a debate on the amendments tabled - yet, well; first, the debate on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Would anyone like to discuss articles to which no amendments have been tabled? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss, we are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled, and we are voting, please. Of the 58 present, 34 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. Then there's the address. Please, Mrs. Beatenchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	If I may, I would like to inform this assembly that this amendment is technically not tabled. The title of the law in force cannot be amended. We are now changing it, and with the change that needs to come into force, the title of the law will change by bearing the 2002 anniversary. This is said, in this case, the amendment is too early or groundless because the law in force is still bearing the 2001 anniversary and we are changing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	And what do you suggest, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	I would like to point out that the amendment is technically incorrect. As I know, I've spoken to the government, the government agrees. I think that it should be rejected or not even put to the vote because - I don't know what would have happened if it had been adopted; in fact, we should not have taken it into account at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	I would ask the government representative to withdraw this amendment in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	We're backing off, we're backing off because there's a real misunderstanding about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. The government withdraws the amendment to the title of the law. The title as it is is, it contains the year 2001 and we must vote on it in any case, as has just been explained. So, please, we're voting on the title of the law. About the title of the law, we said what it was like because the amendment was withdrawn. We're voting. Of the 58 present, 27 voted in favour, 10 against. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 10.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the title of the law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. The amendments were tabled. Procedurally, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group would like to table an amendment to the third reading and ask for half an hour's rest to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	I'm asking, does anyone else intend to table an amendment we don't have right now? Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	In view of the government's warnings that the amendment, which was in second reading, is not specific as regards age, I will table an amendment with the support of ten Members, namely, in that part that "on the day of the census it has been completed 14 years", because otherwise it is covered for a year and there can be a misunderstanding. So, those who turned 14 on the day of the census.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	So I find that we have actually predicted two amendments. The procedural proposal was in half an hour and I set aside a 30-minute break. That's what we say, 11:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, may we continue? Please let us determine if the real cards have been inserted due to the presence. Let's figure out the conundrum. I note that 56 Members and Members are present; the assembly is concluded and may decide. I also note that qualified applicants have tabled amendments. You got three sheets of paper, actually three amendments. Before that, however, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Peterle, is this a general discussion?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We do not see any argument in all that has happened in this debate to change our principled and professional line, and we have therefore also proposed an amendment to the third reading, which will be discussed later. We would not want to support such an unregulated or unusual law that enforces some unusual practice, alters the methodology, prevents the serious comparability of the previous and current census data and, in fact, runs counter to the law that determines the role of parents in our country. We regret that some speakers have tried to deceive this house by explaining that, with the solution proposed by the government at the outset, the constitution would be violated. We do not see the government proposal this way. It is correct to draw attention to the sensitivity of national or religious affiliation in this matter, but the government proposal was not unconstitutional, since the country may ask citizens and citizens on the census about the matter and they have the right to remain silent on the Constitution. No one has violated this right or the government proposal has violated it, not what we have proposed. Therefore, we believe that Article 8 should be amended to ensure that this inventory is comparable to that of the statistical sign. We can imagine if this matter were to go on in such a way that there could also be wider opposition to the census and to the opposition to this unusual practice, so that children could sign their parents' powers to - even though this law already allows them to represent them - that is, to represent them in particular on this issue. So we want to act constitutionally, legally, but also professionally, as far as the census itself is concerned, and that is why we will also represent the amendment, as we have given it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have also tabled amendments, honourable colleagues and colleagues, in which I say that we are aware that the amendment to Article 5 is formally incorrect because Article 5 has not been amended. But we put him in to point out the essence of the question. One option we have for Members and Members is to decide that this issue is not in the signature. This could be done in this way if you accepted the amendment to Article 8, because the text of the law would then be incompatible and it could also be amended later in the revisions to harmonise Article 5. The second proposal is a proposal from a group of ten signatories with a first-signed colleague Dusan Vukko, who, in our opinion, is constitutionally correct in defining the contents of the census. However, since there has been a debate on this before, and it will probably be so - and Mr Peterle has just talked about it - that such a constitutionally correct census can open up many of the dilemmas, even the unwillingness, as he said, of people to attend such a census. We propose that we decide whether to define ourselves as one or the other. While I would like to draw attention to the fact that Members of the parliamentary group will still feel it is better that, due to the methodological ambiguity and the value of the census, this issue is omitted, but that we fully agree and we will also support the amendment that some of us have signed, Mr Vukko, that if we want the majority of this issue in the list, it must be properly implemented. As one of the arguments for our proposal, I would just like to say the following. It is not possible for a constitutionally correct census to be carried out in such a way as to say "everyone will have the opportunity". It can be implemented in a constitutionally correct manner if this option is guaranteed and guaranteed. And this option is guaranteed and guaranteed only by means of statements. This was in the explanations that I read at first reading, also by the government, including by the Ministry of Justice and also by the Bureau of Statistics, despite the fact that all these bodies were later - I would say - found some other explanation. I don't think it's right. And that's what I want to say. Some constitutional lawyers consider that when it comes to a constitutional right as firm as the second paragraph41. Article, including the exercise of this right, must ensure not only formality but also effective enforcement. And unless effective enforcement is ensured, there is doubt as to whether constitutional rights have been violated in a formal sense. In order, therefore, to give the basis - this Mr President knows - for this right to be reduced or otherwise regulated, it must be stronger than just the interest displayed at this moment. That's why it would be good to have that in mind. It is said that this other purpose must be really stronger than the interest of some groups of people in order to achieve the constitutionally permissible and desired objective in order to include this issue. So, we're formally withdrawing the fifth amendment. We believe that the 8th Amendment is to be decided. If you decide on our proposal, then we believe that it would be possible to find a solution to Article 5 when harmonising it, but otherwise we will vote on the proposal tabled by the first-signed Vukko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you. Anyone else in the general debate? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. I'm closing up. [[...]] Yes, please, Mr. Banovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	These days, while we are mostly sitting in those rooms, and because we were interrupted several times, we also spent studying this -- we could say -- some amendments that do not concern the withdrawal of the amendment, I mean, these two signs, but implementation. I have to put it briefly: the state of the population is described on March 31st. The descriptive time in the law is 14 days to obtain information. We anticipate two visits, the first one is announced to the family, and please, if the family is together as much as possible. In this case, of course, people will make personal statements, there is no statement because we understand that we have talked about absent persons. The absent persons, as far as we can tell, will now receive these statements, we will probably have to separate them for both signs and there will be no one in common. Of course they will be identified and will be parents - or we have the dominant or, as Mr Cimperman wrote in the amendment, the reference person who will make sure that these absent persons get these documents if they were to be described, and of course they would be returned on the next visit. But there's a chance they'll be returned by mail if they're far away. This sometimes makes it even more possible for us, especially because it would reach even people who are abroad. However, of course, this matter has its methodological problem, which I must explain in this way. The comparability of data from both periods is difficult in any case. It was difficult because you remembered the 1991 census, the conditions in which we lived at the time, the year of our independence, the year of the mixed population, many things happened, many went away, and so on. So that this comparability is likely to be possible, of course for experts, but it would be very difficult to be useful for something other than, say, some other assessments. However, it is extremely important because we are interested, the country is also interested in data which, although possibly not comparable or less, with less statistical certainty than I think Mr Peterle has said - will probably be good for these requirements. At that time, it was not possible to obtain data on religion for some 300,000 censuses: whether they did not want to say or express themselves about households, but it was possible. [[...]] As far as these criteria are concerned, 14 et cetera, I think so; more legislation is that defines the situation of such a young person in different systems: whether she is employed or is a constitutional person or a criminal person. I have understood Mrs Bitenchev so that this law will determine this; of course, by using this, that she cannot automatically take over what we thought was good - 18 years - there are also criteria in this. Of course, this is an expert and political decision. By adding to this, of course, it will be more expensive because it will happen a little bit. Much more information will be needed in public media to ensure that people are properly informed. This warning about, I can say, the functional illiteracy you gave to the Slovenians - so, as statistics, I have little doubt that it is so purely true. That was one public opinion poll. Maybe we're a little better than 54%. But this, of course, can also be overcome in such a way that a certain educational action can be carried out before this. Of course, for what was used in that -- let's say if I comment, if you can read the timetable, and if you can't read it, you're functionally illiterate -- you have to always ask yourself how many Slovenians ride trains compared to the Germans. These are those public polls. You do understand, don't you? And sometimes that's what we talk about. It's true we have this problem, but it's not that big. And I think that, as we have said, in the framework of organisational efforts, especially with you probably knowing, because it was recently passed the People's Register Act, that we have Slovenians one of the best registers of the population to be used for this purpose, and that we can say that it is very difficult for any person to be unregistered. That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kremjar, forward and then Mr Podobnik. It's all a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. So, I have to say that some things from this performance by Mr Banovec I did not fully understand, because of course this is possible, I would - hopefully - get some further explanation. In fact, I don't see any reason after a double walk, after prior information, I don't know what, because it's not written anywhere, it's some free interpretation of yours, which, of course, I don't think has any basis in this regulation. We are talking about questions that - I hear - are not necessarily answered. The surveyed or listed may be avoided if it so wishes, because it is his right to answer that question. Well, he's going to be visited by this census writer. And whether he answered or not, and the matter is over. And it can't come to you that you, in my opinion, are already introducing certain rules that are not written down, how you will repeat, send by mail, ask for further explanations, because this goes beyond what this regulation wants and sets. So I think that this is some very free interpretation, which, of course, has no basis in this, and this matter should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss the proposal in its entirety, because it is now a general debate. I believe that the government representative has done the right thing. The census process is well known and is determined and as it is will be in 2002. And I suggest we don't bother him because he's specific, it's clear what he's like. I could only find out that if I correctly understood my colleague Potrč - I would like to discuss in particular this part of the law that speaks of religion, about this provision, because everything else, I do not think it is controversial. Did I understand you correctly, Comrade Potch, to withdraw the amendment to Article 5? [[No, no, ……]] Are we going to vote on him?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	We can't because the second reading wasn't amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	So you deliberately filed it against the Rules of Procedure to point out the problem? Thank you very much, all right. Then I note that we have only amendments to Article 8 of the three forms: one proposed deletion, one proposed partial addition, and one significant amendment. Look, I would suggest that because the decision is taken in Article 5, the question of religion will also be included in the inventory - so this decision will - I suggest that we take the best possible solution in Article 8 so that this decision is also feasible, constitutionally correct and legally correct. Look, I have a completely different approach to this question and it is absolutely positive. I am confident, my fellow Members, Comrade Wolf of the LDS and everyone else, that your amendment, which you are proposing - then I will have another question which is related to the content itself - your amendment will, because I think positively, will trigger, in my opinion, a positive climate that we will all invite the Slovenes and Slovenians to stay home on the future day, together with the families, and that there will be a lot of answers and that due to this amendment you are proposing, will undoubtedly be clarified by more people. This is a positive approach, and it is also a policy's duty to invite families to stay at home at that time, to stay at home, and to make themselves clear - and this is positive. Look, I'm telling you this is gonna happen. But I do have another concrete case. Something similar happened in the Czech Republic this year [[I've got some information here.]] . If we think positive, I would like to say in what way the Evangelical and Catholic Church is doing a positive campaign, an absolute positive campaign to invite its citizens and citizens or its believers - "Please declare yourselves religiously". And the campaign was carried out positively and the echo was also positive. That is to say, your purpose here may be different as you imagine, but the entire provision of the Constitution will also be respected. So I think this is a positive path. We're going to get a lot more answers to this question, much more than this amendment would have been, much more because people are going to stay at home. Now it's just a question I'm gonna ask. See, the current provision of Article 10 - I think you have to convince me why we have added national ownership to this written consent. I'd like to ask for an explanation here. Here is Article 10 clear, valid: "The data on absent household members is transmitted by that member of the household who is most familiar with the data, about children under 15 years of age, and by one of the parents, adoptive parent or guardian. First, I'd like to ask my colleagues from LDS to explain to me why 14 years. Dr. Gaber had already explained to me some of the data that they can hold, and then he'd -- he'd accept it if it was convincing. Next paragraph. The person described shall not be obliged to give a statement of national, ethnic or ethnic origin, and the description questionnaire shall contain a legal instruction on this. That's okay. Now all I'd have is a question. Do you think this is a European, maybe a European? How will we justify this to the question, to agree, to intervene on nationality for - we are only talking about absent members of the household, that it will be necessary, this written definition of those who will be missing. For national ownership - and no one has questioned this in the debate. So, I'd like to ask that answer. Otherwise, I believe that if we accept this amendment and if we approach positively in the days before the census, we will get very, very reliable data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you. The debate on the amendments is still under way; now the law is complete, so please, if we can fully discuss the law, then immediately on the amendments. There is no more debate on the whole law, so I conclude the debate. I only ask if any explanation is needed by the Government regarding Mr Kremjar's questions? Yes, please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	So, maybe not everything in the law is written, but you know, the whole methodology of the procedure is a very thick book and in the explanation for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] We wrote the law. [[...]] In fact, the censuser must do his utmost to have as many listed persons at home as possible. You can't always do that. The writer can't be the same day at all ends. On average, it lists 200 households. This is 14 days and we usually anticipate and calculate two visits. Even sometimes because some people decide, they say we'll do it ourselves, so come and get it. The biggest question, of course, is that it is also in a global sense, especially for Europe on 31 March - as I initially said - when the most people are at home, and those days, 14 days, are also the most at home. I don't know why it's like that, but it looks like it's good. It is clear, however, that if we explain: now, the absent members in relation to these two attributes, we cannot describe, in particular, this category over 14 or 15 years old, and we would send or give to the head of the household those statements that would then be received in two ways: whether we come again or by mail. I don't think we have anything else to do with this. However, it is and I appreciate, I agree with Mr Podobnik that in this case the coverage is likely to be greater, and so is the result. The only problem we may see in this is that the so-called enthusiasm for statements in some areas will not be balanced, but then we will forget about - say - ethnicity, because it does not have an entity. But I think that can be arranged. That's an explanation. But of course it is in the absence - once again I say: here it is, we are also talking about the absence of those people who are very far away from our places, that is to say, even the natives and so on, because otherwise we did not anticipate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, do you want to do this now?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An hour ago, we accepted the amendment to Article 8. Now we're fixing it a little bit. In some things we fix it, but in some things we don't. In your explanation for the correction, you finally wrote "with the proposed amendments, we change age to 15 years". After this age, a minor may already be employed under the law of law. Why did you write that? You wrote 14 years. Does 15 or 14 apply? Let's do one thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	We still come to this No, not about the amendments, but about the whole marriage. [[...]] [[...]] Is there any other discussion on this? Not about the amendments. Mrs Simšičova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In fact, I would have only one question for the government representative concerning the law as a whole. In particular, he has laid down a number of reasons why the proposal proposed by the Consolidated List in order to establish a confession should not be accepted. Among other things, he said that the provision already adopted made makes it very difficult to compare the census that had already been made and its results with the census that would be carried out next year, if only those who are truly experts could and would not be able to identify it, to compare this data with other assessments, and of course such an inventory would not be appropriate. This raises the question of what other assessments should be made in this respect, if not only for the highly professional comparative actions of this country, i.e. the census. In fact, I would like to say one more argument why, of course, I will try, and also by this debate on the law as a whole, to convince some of them that they are considering the definition of religion in the census. Look, when I went exactly through a number of magnetograms in the long debates and various amendments, I was actually a little surprised at the end. When the mother's working body addressed the proposal to delete the issue of religion, the Government's view was that this issue should remain in the census, regardless of what has already been said from the point of view of the Constitution. But when I stopped at the amendment of Parliamentary colleague Bogdan Barovic, who wanted to convince the MPs and MPs on the home working body that the census should also include information on the blood group, so the government's explanation was - I'll just read it. "The representative of the government objected to such addition and stressed that it is one of the personal data under consideration and cannot be collected in the census." I am not now going to discuss whether this data has a statistical value or does not have it. But two questions. To say on behalf of the government is so very different, and I must say this, from my point of view it is difficult to accept and, of course, even with the consistency of the proposed law as proposed by the government. So perhaps I would like an explanation to clarify this dilemma and, of course, explain why this is a personal matter that we need to respect, but not another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Banovac, there is another question that he will then suddenly answer. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, given the climate in this debate, I would like to read one thing from the coalition agreement. On the first page: "The main objectives of this cooperation are: for the first time, tolerance and more integration in Slovenia, respect for freedom of choice, implementation of new ideas, non-implementation of old ideologies, future without trauma of the past. That's just enough to remind you what this coalition deal says. However, I would like to ask Mr President or Prime Minister to perhaps explain some of the formalities in this description. I'm interested in this. If on the list, then the statements made by parents or other persons for third parties, or if there is a provision in another law that may require the formalisation of such a declaration, so that it would be necessary, for example, to obtain the signature of the notary or to sign before the notary, what will this form be, what will be, and what will be the dictates of such consent. Please, if you can explain this to me and assure me that this consensus will be completely informal and, if it is completely informal, it does not have any particular importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Is there still a debate or are there just questions for the government representative?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	No, it's about the whole law. Because they've been asking questions over and over again, it's just a debate. They're not amendments yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Good. Then I can say OK. [[...]] Thank you very much. I think that, in the debate itself, we have pointed out too many problems that might arise on the census and that these problems do not change a bit into some fears, what will happen when this population is described, I mean, for ten years, and what will we learn and what will we reveal when this happens. I do not see this problem alone, and I do not support any excessive restrictions on the entry, declarations and signatures. Even then, I voted that religion can be an integral part of the census because I see nothing wrong with it. We may have a specific feature where, formally, many people belong to a religious community, but otherwise it behaves in its own way, among which I am myself, and I may have acted in such a personal way. I agree with those who say that there may be unnecessary interference with these additional solutions, which are incorporated into the amendments. Religious affiliation and nationality are two different matters and are not equal. I don’t see any problems with nationality that should make us particularly clear; at least in our case, as far as I can see, there are no matters that people should not want to or should not say. And it can be just as normal a thing as anything else in this list. The other thing is this age limit, which bothers me to go too far back at the age of 14, so we shouldn't have parents and so on. The next thing you know, I think we're making things complicated, and we're doing extra business, visiting individual households, probably costs. By making it look like we're used to this country, but it's going to cost so many millions more and there's no problem, it's going to cost that much. And in every decision we make, we shake up a few million dollars, but the story goes on in its own way. Perhaps I am having a little controversy with Mr Sponik that there will be a positive approach to cases where believers will plead, and that, for example, the church will invite people to be at home - I don't think that will happen. The census will be taken as one of many censuses and will be at home or not at home. And also this kind of appeal to citizens - in elections we had cases where they were also asked by individual churches to identify themselves and how to define themselves, but we saw that it happened the other way around, that they did not even go to the elections. I don't see any reason to make things more complicated. Of course, I will support solutions - I will say this at the same time, although there is no explanation for the vote - to simplify matters and, of course, to support a solution that will delete this additional provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Juban and correct his statement. In my performance, when I said earlier that it was possible to invite people to the census by a positive approach to all those active in a country, I did not think that the Slovenian Church or the Evangelical Church would do this. I just gave the example of the Czech Republic, which is described, I have it exactly written. However, I did not say that this would apply to the Slovenian situation. But I'd like to replicate one more thing. Now colleague Juban said that there was another way for the third reading or fourth reading of the confession to go out of the law. My colleague Potts is an experienced Member, of course he proposes to delete Article 8. If we delete Article 8, the law is inconsistent. Then you will come in the next step with the proposal to delete, of course, the data on religion in Article 5. Apparently, my colleague Juban sees this way, too. That's the way. So, if paragraph 8 is deleted, the law is inconsistent. Then he will follow the amendment to delete the confession. That's what I'm warning you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Allow me an opinion on the whole marriage. With the census, we want to obtain reliable and necessary information for the country. This is the first goal we want with the list. The second is, of course, to gain in a way that is not constitutionally controversial. And as the government has suggested regarding religion, it is not constitutionally controversial. For every citizen has the opportunity to express himself or to stand up for it. The introduction of any additional consensus will make this census, methodology, extremely complicated, so that it will be difficult and we will come into conflict with some other laws, as I have already defined. There is no need to ensure that adolescents are declared by the age of 18 because they are already summed up in other lists and are therefore added. Therefore, all this debate is merely a delay and a delay in entering problems into the list itself. There are other content at stake, not just the question of religion. It's also a question, as we've seen before, of nationality. It's also a matter of sex. I'm sorry. Some people don't want to be defined about sex. That might be a question, too. Are we now going to continue all of this in these areas, when, however, every citizen who is described has the possibility of rejecting it. This is no violation of constitutional rights. The Constitution says you can't force anyone, is freedom of expression. He can say, "I won't say anything about it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Is that a replica, Mr. Juban? Go ahead, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Squirrel, for reminding me that I may not have been clear. In the second reading of the rapid procedure, we adopted the text of colleague Vukko, which is then written in the amendment of New Slovenia, in order to delete the same text. Is that right? At the same time, he proposes to Comrade Wolf that the text change slightly. My debate, if you have followed it well, was in this direction that I do not support the solutions that would be needed in the way that colleague Wolf proposes. I support the solution that this additional determination, or, in my opinion, the complication, collection or declaration, is deleted. Thank you very much. Am I being understood now?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	A brief replica of colleague Juban. Honest apology! I understand your debate differently, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you. In the context of the debate on the law, there is still a whole question, because then I would give Mr Banovac the floor to answer the questions that have arisen and then somehow try to move on to the amendments, if possible. Excuse me, Mr. Banovac, there may be another question. I see that Mr Bernick would still like a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	I'd like to ask what sanctions this law provides for if someone refuses to answer. Are sanctions defined and what are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Banovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	So, about what was on the board for a little while. We have actually defended the government's views and I think the reasons have been said. I still don't know how badly we would understand each other if, as a statistician, we said that, of course, all things are not usable. You know, they've also been used to some very embarrassing things, but you can't stop it. The profession, probably the demographic profession, as well as the regional projections and everything else, are likely to need this information, as is any other. As far as our position on the blood type is concerned. I have said something more than in the record, namely that this is, of course, health information, that this is medical information, and it is, of course, even worse than that, that on the national body, whatever it is, the blood group is also something unprofessional. Then there's something else about these signs. Sex is not a sign that we have to hide, but in the Constitution, personal data protection law says about sexual tendencies. These may be explanations. In fact, punishment is at risk if someone fails to give those signs that are mandatory. For these two signs that you are now talking about, no one can be punished for these two signs, because it is clear that no, and also in the law it is written. With regard to signing and protecting what will happen, this may now be our biggest problem. We found a solution at the same time. It is clear that we will collect these statements, deposit them, and that anyone who thought that someone had said something about it would be able to control it and see if its signature, say, is somehow oddly arranged or if it is not arranged. This, of course, will be preserved by the Archives and Census Act, as it says. This is also an increased cost because it will be for everyone, these will be special envelopes, including shelves and, of course, we are also concerned that it will be settled. That way we'll document all the forms on our own. The forms, including those that will not be attached to this issue, will be, today it is called scanned or put into the computer in a way that will be exactly seen and will, as has been the custom, be available to only the person who gave it. My experience, I may still be in the third census, was such that we had large archives, very few inquiries, but sometimes someone needed it, he wanted to check, in particular the family situation, and of course this does not apply in court. Courts sometimes take this as an illustration of notariat, but I think it is, and then it's over. So it's about protecting the signature, and that the person who signed it, or someone on his behalf, has the right to control it. We will also carry out a follow-up checklist, as set out in each census law. The checklist is that a special handful of respondents are asked once again whether they are, above all, censusers because they sometimes make mistakes or do something else, they also influence us to find out and to take appropriate action and, in particular, to assess the credibility of the data, in view of the rest of the new methodology, not the general criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Can we end this discussion? Yes, you can. Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. So we have four amendments in a row. First, Mr Potrč has tabled an amendment to Article 8 for the United List of Members, the New Slovenia Group of Members also to Article 8, a group of Members with the first signed Mr Vukko also to Article 8 and the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 10.a. I hope you have all this, if you don't have this last one yet, but it will be delivered to you quickly at this time. I am opening a debate on all four amendments tabled. Mr. Wolf has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I abstained from the debate in the previous part because we would only extend it. First of all, of course, an apology for the fact that there was a mistake in this part of coordination during the break, that we forgot to fix the anniversary in explanation, age. This also answers the question of all those, why 14 years? In our legislation, there is no fixed year of age that would be uniform. Labour law applies for 15 years. This is where we went primarily towards the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and, above all, criminal law. When we talk about children in a legal sense, we talk about people over 14 years of age. This is no longer a child under criminal law, but they are underage. And these younger minors are already responsible for their conduct, they are criminally responsible, by limiting what criminal sanctions may be imposed upon them in the event that these persons commit criminal offences. Let's not talk about underage and underage. So, Mr Peterle, when we talk about children, we are talking about people under 14 years of age. Why Nationality? My efforts and, of course, all those who signed it were mainly about making a legal act and helping the government that we support, at least me. In the already existing law, paragraph three, I quote: "A signed person is not obliged to say that he is a national ethnic person." So for those who are present at the time of the census, they are not obliged under the law to say about ethnicity and it is quite understandable that this, and then, given that we have also accepted a confession, that we will of course apply to analogy also in the second paragraph, which speaks of those who are absent. Otherwise, it's legally controversial. If the person on the spot is entitled to the list and is not obliged to express himself, of course we must also guarantee this right to the person who is absent. I would not repeat here the discussions that have already been said about the position of the Secretariat and the warning. The original amendment went this way. The secretariat pointed out that, of course, according to Article 41 of the Constitution, where personal rights are concerned, freedom, on the other hand, such as Mr Podučnik, in one of the debates, should also point out that this personal right, when he is absent, is carried with him. No one else can give that information. When we are talking about the provision of constitutional rights, colleague Juban, with all due respect, of course we cannot talk about whether we are loving to complicate or not. And even colleagues on my left, it's not a matter of trust between parents and children, it's not. Of course, trust within the family is essential if we want the family to exist, but when we talk about law. And that 14-year-old, that limit. At that time, we asked ourselves, for example, in Austria, Germany, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, this 14-year-old is also able to decide for himself whether or not to go to church for comparison. Maybe I couldn't say that. So it was criminal law that led us to give up those 14 years. And one more thing. What has already been said somewhere by Mr Banovac is that the National Assembly is the one who will determine this anniversary in this particular case. That's how things can be debated. I think I answered all the questions. I would point out once again that we are simply assessing, the amendment's proponents, that it must remain in line with the existing third paragraph of Article 10. I would also like to conclude my debate with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Vukko, given that, for example, with the adoption of Article 8, others become irrelevant, I would suggest that we first try to discuss Article 8 and then vote. When we see what the outcome of this vote will be, if you're so kind and consider this mine [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Of course, if it's a draft amendment. If Article 8 is crossed, then the debates are off, but perhaps Article 8 first. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the United Nations Group? [[A voice from behind.]] In particular, I would like to point the debate at this part, because the proposal is that the article be deleted. If the article is deleted and if we vote then the discussion is still possible or unnecessary. For that reason. I'm not limiting it. I'm just suggesting. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	In the light of what has been said and the explanation given by Mr Vukko, a fellow Member, I would like to ask him a question. Yesterday, when we discussed the Telekom law, it was heard from the Liberal Democratic Party that this was a party that would not support all the amendments of its government. I wonder, then, what is the position of Liberal Democracy since yesterday? What moments have prompted this matter to change so dramatically that you no longer support your government's position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members has made two amendments. I will talk about the amendment to Article 8, which proposes the deletion of paragraph 1, that is to say, all of us know the text. We remain convinced that it means a unique solution, which we have not met anywhere else in the world, but also elsewhere in the Constitution and democracy, that it means a distortion and a complication of the census and with the consequences of professionalism, perhaps at political level. Look, ever since 1945, I don't know that people should sign for anything related to the census. This will be the first time in this way - so I say, I don't know about such information, maybe anyone else - and, of course, there will be this signing at two signs that were sometimes in some way problematic or in a particular way entangled in politics. And this disorder is not going to hit someone who won't be home then, but someone who might want or question his neighbor if I say so. So this thing isn't going to be limited to that percentage that's gone that day. So this thing is going to be talked about or talked about; and I collected a little feedback on this, and they said, "and now we're going to have to sign if we're going to have these or those faiths." In short, this House will not be doing itself a service, and I do not know why the coalition does not support its own government, which it has proposed, I suppose, a coordinated proposal on this subject. We've got another coalition in the government, one here. I don't think that's good. See, this paper war, as has been said by the director, Mr Banovac, this means additional forms - I do not imagine that any house where anyone will be missing and will want to answer for a absent member of the household will somehow seek a formulation for that consent, but that some form will be prescribed. Well, at least what it is, it costs money and raises things. If you look at the budget, you will see that they are so precise in this coalition that they say in advance that all the celebrations will be at Cankar's home, that nothing will be planned because there is no money. See, if you are so financially sensitive there that even a 10-year-old Slovenian independence will not be celebrated outside, as it was at the time of the proclamation, then be careful here and do not make unnecessary extra costs! There could be a lot of technical and organisational issues here, how these agreements will now be regulated. Before that, Mr Banovac said there would be a need for more clarifications, perhaps a visit more and so on. I don't think we're doing ourselves any favors here, but above all, it's going to be a huge complication with the people listed. It's a question of age. See, in three days we have twice-amendment, if I am not mistaken, once 14, once 15 See, according to this logic or with arguments, as written here, that people are already employed under the labour law - listen, this is not an argument, this is just a fact that they can get a job. [[...]] What, though, does the labour legislation in this area or what maturity does it give? There is nothing in our constitution in Article 41 on this subject that has been written for years. However, I would like to point out to the honourable assembly that there is a Convention on Children's Rights, where it is stated that every person is considered a child by the age of 18. Why we are past the convention that this house has ratified - I think last year - why we are now going to set this up, these years. Also, someone could say 16 or 17, as you said at the beginning of the 14th and then the 15th. These are purely casual things with which we work without need. And I'm saying where in the world they've done something like this. In the Czech Republic, as the Czech Republic has sometimes said in the case of Mr Podobnik, as I know, they did not do so. I would advise, again, in ensuring that matters are comparable, not so radically changing conditions that at least, as far as possible, this matter will be comparable. This thing brings disorder and complication, brings encouragement, brings more explanations, brings more organisations, more visits, certainly makes the matter difficult. But I'm here to do as much as possible as people are used to in accordance with the Constitution. And once again, the constitution allows the state to ask and also allow anyone who does not want to answer. But there's no such thing as consent. So, of course, we will support this amendment and propose that others do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you. The debate is open: Mr Ptrč, Mr Drobnic, Mr Vukko and Mrs Simšičeva. Please, Mr. Punch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I've got a replica on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	Mr. Peterlet. [[...]] I just want to remind him again. Mr. Peterle! Since you didn't listen to what your government wrote about this issue last time, I'll read it to you again. But I'll read it to you again. Maybe you'll remember. Such data on a person, in accordance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, do not make sense to collect the census - I stress further - because for each such reply, a written consent should be obtained from each signed person for the collection of such data. That was the government's opinion back then that you were an outside minister. And second. In Slovenia we have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which applies to us, neither Czech nor Slovak nor any other Constitution. Mr Peterle did not tell me that there is any other provision in any other constitution, such as ours, which simply says, "No one is obliged to define their religious or other beliefs". This was followed by this explanation by the Government of Dr Bayuk and Peterlet as Foreign Minister in 2000. It is therefore not possible to compare the censuses until this constitution has been in force since December 1991. In all the debates so far, this is the only fact that we have referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	I'd like to talk to you about the replicas first. Mr. Petty Officer, do you have a replica or a debate? Then it's Mr. Wolf's turn for the replica and then Mr. Peterle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Peterle, very briefly. I think my buddy Potts was in the right direction when he read you something. I would just say that you read both of the amendments tabled and you'll find that we haven't changed the yearbook, were thinking, legally submitted amendments talking about 14 years. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you. Mrs Simšičev also has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. In fact, I just wanted to explain or replicate to a colleague who said that we would complicate things by referring to the constitution. As long as we have a constitution, it is right to respect it, whether it costs a little more or less. When we begin to wonder whether respect for the Constitution costs us, and if it costs us too much, then, of course, in extreme consonance, it means the issue of abolishing the Constitution. I apologize, a little extreme thought, but as long as there is a constitution, we must respect it, and there is no excuse whether it costs a tolar more or less, or whether it is necessary for certain things to have written consent or not. I would also like to refer to my colleague, Loyze Peterlet, who said that the Convention or Declaration on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations states that a child is anyone who has not yet reached the age of 18. Yeah, that's what it says. However, if you are also reading this Convention further, in, I do not know which article, this moment does not have paper on it, it shall be written unless otherwise provided in individual cases by law. And of course, in individual cases, in individual countries with laws, this is different. I don't think there's any point in losing words here. With regard to the age limit in individual definitions, of course, the signatories we signed this last amendment have considered different definitions at age. Even at the age of 12, as has already been pointed out, since at the age of 12, every child has the right to plead in court in which of the two parents who are separated would want to live. He has every right. That's 12 years old. At 14, it was already said, and at 15, we have a bunch of laws. I have drawn everyone out here, from the law on political parties, from the law on society, from the law on society, from the law on society, and religious communities are also an integral part of civil society, as is society, anyone who is 15 years old can be a full-fledged member. When you're 15, you have the right to admit paternity. When you're 15, if you're busy, you can be absolutely responsible, not just make a family and get married, you can rent a loan and answer for everything. So these years are very different in different areas. After 15 years, you can even buy cigarettes. I wouldn't count it all, but that's a lot. However, if we go completely through the letter of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we will use once, and the second, of course, the child's right is absolute in some way and we should look into and observe and respect the right for which the child could express himself. And that's probably something that doesn't make sense that we're discussing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Peterle has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	I repeat to Mr Ptræ, although I heard him very well at the time, and Mr Bajuk has also answered and praised Drnovšk's government for correcting the Bajuk government's mistake. I wasn't looking at the details at the time. In particular, I fought for this to come on the agenda when I saw that Drnovskov's government gave up the census for the tenth year. I can see that I have failed on this matter. I would be happy to quote any decisions made by the Bajuk government in order to include Telekom, in taxes and elsewhere. In a number of areas, progress has been made over the years. As far as Ambassador Simšičov is concerned. See, paragraph 41 is quite clear. I keep saying or asking: Prove what the government's proposal to regulate this part of the census is contrary to the Constitution? The state may ask, but the respondents may not answer. There's no dilemma here. Here you enter a dispute without need. There's no dilemma here at all. There is no need for this matter, which you are now proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr Drobnič applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. These amendments by the United Nations Group of Members and by the Liberal Democrats add to the problem of population registration, but do not solve the apparent problem of the conflict of constitutional provisions because there is no dispute in the existing law or government proposal. I'll explain why. Indeed, this constitutional right as regards the definition of religion or nationality is a personal right. Anyone you ask is on a personal level. If you express yourself about your family members, just below, if you write this down on a paper where the questionnaire is, it is your declaration of nationality or the faith of your family members. Therefore, this does not violate the constitutional provision. Because this constitutional provision is about you personally, so that there will not be any carousing, you personally when you make a statement. In addition, these data are intended, they are aggregated data, we need to be aware. Hence, questions from the standpoint of the constitutional substance, such as nationality and religion, are questionable. But according to how they're set up, statistics make them reasonable, meaningful and useful. However, they are not used in an individual sense to serve as evidence in any legal procedure. At the same time, I might replicate that opinion about the blood type. That information makes no sense. It's redundancies. An important information about the blood type is that it is effective. Not based on my statement that I'm determining whether I'm A or I'm AB or I'm 0 or I'm not making a statement. This information is important due to aid, intervention aid, and this is a record of health insurance. It doesn't make any sense to involve such a question. So, with regard to 15 years, 14 years or 18 years, the Family Relations Act clearly states that parents - and civil law, of course - are empowered to do so. That's why it's very reliable. It doesn't make sense that we're looking for a child's consent to such things. In proceedings, the criminal code or civil law legislation clearly determines when this general right of representation is excluded - when the issue of the individual rights of the child is raised when the fundamental human rights of the child are enclaved. It is pointless to ask the child for his consent as to whether he could go to the playground or whether he could go, I don't know where, and everything else, because they would violate his freedom. But that's clear. That is why we come to certain concerns about what we would say, whether it would be 14 years old, so we apply criminal law, although there is no basis here to introduce criminal legislation and apply the provisions in that it would be 15 years from another legislation. This will make the census law so problematic that it will not be possible to enforce it, and there is no breach of constitutional provisions at risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I also believe that this written consent to request from the census is pointless and will lead us if we enforce it, to obtain distorted data on actual religious affiliation. This is a certain pressure on those who are willing to declare themselves members of a certain faith. This will certainly have an impact, and I fear that part of the intention may also be given to some to do so. That's not good. It may even lead to stigmatization of some, it may lead to stigmatization. Here I see the same effects as when we were small, when individual teachers asked us about visiting a Verrouk. As few of these pressures as possible. The consequences will certainly be political, the results will not be methodologically useful, but will be abused and manipulated. It's over. Why not trust, build on trust within the family? It will only be those who - do you think that we should not trust a family member to have information from another family member, whether he can tell his definition or not. If another family member tells him that it is not necessary or that he does not wish to make a statement, the person who will be present in the census will say, "There is no need to make that statement, I have no information". Is such trust within the family not to be relied upon? Is our Slovenian family so distant that we cannot believe and trust it? I think that the solution now envisaged, with these consents, currently has only harmful consequences, negative consequences. I don't think the founder was thinking this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In short, I would like to define myself up to all three amendments tabled by Article 8. Alone and my fellow Members, we will support the Government's proposal, which was written in the law, which is Article 8, if I read it, then it will read: "The person described does not have to say about nationality, ethics and religion." We will support this dictatorship because we believe, even on the basis of the debate, we have listened carefully to the fact that there are no constitutional or legal obstacles so that this information is not collected. In particular, we note the additional sentence in this paragraph. However, the questionnaire should contain a legal study on this. Colleagues and colleagues! Legal study is also what colleague Vukko proposes in part with his amendment. It's already in the marriage. The questionnaire should contain a legal instruction on this. And legal education will describe exactly what is in the Constitution and what is in the Data Protection Act. Our parliamentary group will not support the proposal to delete Article 8 because this would make the law inconsistent and then most likely to delete the information on religion at all. I listened attentively to my colleague Wolf when he was basing his amendment and his partial change. Data on years of age, there is a broad discussion here and there are different views. However, I must admit, Comrade Wolf, that you have not convinced me of anything when you mentioned the analogy and that there is also a need to speak to absent members about nationality. I understand why. To avoid the issue of religion, the addition of nationality is also made. This has not been updated and opened in the debate itself, and we will therefore not support your amendment and we will support the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members to delete the provision adopted in the second reading and thus remain a basic dictatorship, which will read: "The person described is not obliged to express his nationality, ethnicity and religion, and the questionnaire must contain a legal instruction on this." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I didn't want to come by. I just got an amendment on the table where the yearbook was fixed. We could discuss this year, whether it's 14 or 16, and I don't think it's relevant. When I look at my colleagues and colleagues, I wonder why such a scrupulous opposition. After all, we have to trust people and professions. People aren't stupid. But the profession also thinks it works well, because it doesn't just work for one year or two. He's had a lot of years, a lot of experience. I'm sure she'll be able to put the profession right. And if I were to say so. The cheapest option, I suggest, is that it would be for your mothers, your fathers, your wives, your husbands, those who answer the questions, to forget that they should not answer them on your behalf. Otherwise, it will be done by the media, who, through TV, radio and newspapers, I am sure, will run the campaign probably 14 or 10 days earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you. Who wants another word? I note that there is no further discussion, and I am concluding the debate on the amendments to Article 8. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to Article 8. Let me be perfectly clear. Please, Mr. Peterle. [[...]] The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	Yeah. Since we are ahead of the decision, please on behalf of the New Slovenia Group for half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	So, Mr. Peterle proposes a half-hour recess before making a decision. We'll resume at 13.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	We're continuing our session. Please, if we can find the conclusion first. Look, please, if the cards are in the right places. There are 53 Members and Members present; we are final and we can continue our work. I'm asking the initiator, Mr. Peterlet, does he want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We took a closer look at what is ahead of us to decide. We have found something else that, in addition to the already warned or said that a solution would have remained if it had not been enough to amend Article 8 in accordance with the proposed amendment and delete that paragraph, this would have led to the loss of some sign of a category or category, some groups of people - I do not think that this would require any specific circumstances, because such a solution already establishes them - and for those who will be absent and will not have the authority or consent, we will not have any data on the nationality of a religion. This applies to everyone who lives with us, the Slovenians, Hungary, the Italians or anyone. So this information or both will simply be missing. We understand why the proponent put both, nationality and religion into a pair, because if it were just a religious confession, it would really get uncomfortable or weird out there, so it looks like it's in a couple, but it puts the other category into trouble, not just the first. So you're really doing a bad favor with this. Therefore, we are even more convinced that we are right to represent the real thing when we support the amendment of Article 8 which would mean the establishment of normalisation and the normal implementation of the census.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We will vote on the three amendments to Article 8 in the following order: first the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the United List to delete, then the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenija and then the amendment tabled by the group of Members with Mr Vukko's first signed. If the amendment proposed by the United Nations Group were adopted, of course, it would make the other two amendments irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the United Nations Group of Members. We're voting. Of the 59 Members and Members, 26 voted in favour of the amendment, against 27 Members and Members. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members and excluded by the amendment of the Group of Members. We therefore vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Of the 60 present, 22 votes against 33 Members and Members. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the next last amendment to Article 8 tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dusan Vukko. We're voting. Of the 63 present, 34 votes to 23. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Mr Vukko has been adopted. Since the amendment has been adopted, it is irrelevant to vote on the amendment to Article 10a of New Slovenia. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting, please. Explanation of voice. We'll repeat the vote, I say goodbye. Please, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Your Honor! I will vote against such a law, which introduces a unique, complicated solution that will make this list of undeniably politicisation and thus a variety of enquiries. Now, of course, I can only vote against it. I will consider what else can be done to make this list comparable to the 1991 census and not to include the contents or interests that should not be included in the census.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Voice explanation, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I will also vote against it, because with this complicity, you are the ones who have clearly achieved it, and the time will show that this census will significantly undermine that the data will be irrelevant and I fear that the number of Slovenian nationalities will be greatly reduced. It's the census, anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Yes, you can. We are voting on the whole of the law, as I said before. Please let us vote. Of the 64 Members present, 36 voted in favour, against 17 Members and Members. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day - Defence draft law on the height of the children's allowance - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm moving to first reading. I welcome the representative of the government, and I also give her my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government proposes to adopt a law on the height of the child supplement, following a rapid procedure for the following reasons. In 1993, a law on family benefits was passed which defines in Article 35 a universal child allowance of 13, 16 or 17% of the guaranteed salary, depending on the age of the child. The quoted provision was suspended three times in 1993, 1995 and 1999 on 30 April 2001. Since 1993, a selective child supplement has been in force. Selectivity is ensured according to the income of the family member and according to the number of children in the family. If the universal child allowance were effective on 30 April, this would make the social economic situation worse for 63% of the current beneficiaries. In what way and how high it is, I think, is sufficiently evident from our explanation. The Government therefore proposes to continue to implement the selective consumer supplement for the following reasons. For the first time, the universal child allowance would reduce the level of social security achieved to the beneficiaries so far. Families with more children and lower income would be particularly affected. The marginal usefulness of the universal child allowance would be so low in families with high personal income that it would not achieve its impact. The law proposed by the Government will regulate the child allowance for the adoption of the law on parental protection and family benefits, which is being adopted at second reading in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I welcome the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Dimovski, and the Secretary of State, Mrs Alenko Kovšca, who has just presented us with the law. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a parent labour force. I ask the President, Mr Brenčič, to present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! At its 3rd regular meeting on 6.3.2001, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law, such as that submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The explanation by the proposer was given to the members of the committee by the State Secretary in the content, as you have heard, so I would not repeat it. The secretariat, on a proposal from the law, did not have any comments which would in any way support the need to modify or supplement the content of the law, not by nomotechnical or substantive means. In the debate, however, members of the Committee raised the question of when Slovenia would start implementing the adopted resolution on family policy already in 1992, where it was explicitly stated that a universal child allowance would be introduced. Some of the debaters considered that the child allowance was no social category, but that our country should already approach comprehensive family policy resolution and treatment and aid allocation, where the child allowance is only part of the system of regulation of family policy. On the basis of the proposal that the ceiling on income per family member as a percentage of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia should be deleted, the Ministry representative stressed that this would mean around 100,000 new beneficiaries and about 5 billion additional funds or an increase in the financial burden of the state budget. The members of the Committee agreed that consideration of the Systemic Law on Child Protection and Family Benefits should be continued and adopted as soon as possible. The Committee further adopted two amendments to Article 2 which form an integral part of this report, with some clarification needed to be given to the second amendment. This amendment also drew the Committee's attention in its content to the opinion of the Council of State and to the content provided for in Article 2 of the Act for the coordination of a child's allowance and the basic article deals with this content in paragraph 5. The Committee was somewhat aware of the opinion of the State Council, which was based on this content in paragraph 4. So, in view of the fact that the Committee's amendment's forecast statement needs to be corrected, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have tabled an amendment amending the forecast sentence so that this is the fifth paragraph, which is amended to read, and not the fourth paragraph. In this context, there is then also an incorrect indication in the review of the amendments, however, that Mrs Shirce's amendment becomes irrelevant if the amendment of the committee is adopted. Mrs Shirce's amendment correctly reads paragraph 4 and is therefore subject to her amendment in any case. After all, the Committee also adopted a decision as follows: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law on the height of the child supplement be considered and adopted together with the amendments of the Committee following a rapid procedure." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. Please, Mr Visjak on behalf of the SDS, then Mr Petty Officer on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings to government representatives, respectable colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we support a selective approach to support children based on the average monthly personal income of the family. The problem is that with this child supplement we went to social aid according to the average income. However, I think or believe that the child supplement is not only a social category, it is also a category that is supposed to guide or direct family policy in Slovenia, so we think that the system legislation should also approach this issue in such a way as to stimulate families, regardless of their financial situation, through these children's allowances. However, since we are currently talking only about social aid, which depends on family income, we are supporting a selective solution, this means that more eligible families with lower incomes are eligible, and that is why we will also support this law, while we believe that it is right for the government to think about comprehensive measures to promote and regulate family policy. It also follows from the Government's explanation for the amendments that this has already been achieved in part through income policy and income facilitation. We believe that this is not enough, and we believe that more needs to be done for future family policy, including systemic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	Well-known, government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me, too, to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the law on the height of the child supplement. By this law, as proposed by the government, we are totally giving up the universality of the child supplement. It's just a fact. In Novi Slovenije we said and stressed that the children's allowance must depend on the socio-economic situation of the family. However, if we have already adopted a resolution - and this has been adopted by Drnovška's Government nine years ago - on the universality of the child's allowance and the social consensus has been concluded, we find it unusual and unworthy to move away from it. This consensus was reached after a lot of difficult agreements. It is not the case that the amendments or proposals of New Slovenia are adopted in order to make children's allowances of lower categories worse. That's not true. We've only opened the upper limit so they get all the families for each child a child's allowance. That was the key. Therefore, any distribution of New Slovenia's commitment to lower categories would be less at the expense of those with higher incomes - this is not true. Then we will also have to ask ourselves that our experts around the world are teaching that a universal children's allowance is in place in Slovenia. We've been doing this for eight, nine years. And we have a marriage here. Then we have an intervention law that prevents this. What strange manners he has in our Slovenia. If we're already adopting laws, then we're tearing up some segments and saying we're going to be in the future. It's a law on genetic technologies, now it's in the telecommunications law. This is clearly a rule of this government that promises much - or this government coalition - but does not actually come true. This, in turn, turned the child’s allowance into a social allowance. Then let's name it, it's a social benefit. The State or the Constitutional Court shall give a warning in this regard. Of course, a warning was given, i.e. the decision concerned the law on income. However, this is an integral part of helping families. There's something else I'd like to point out. If the Family Benefits Act were valid - I think since 1993 - a valorisation clause was dignified, but not vague, to be valorized in accordance with either the cost of living or inflationary movements, then we would now have a child's allowance of the family, so no one would be harmed. However, since a guaranteed salary has been introduced for valorization, it is true that each year the family loses, or the marriage is getting further away. Because the guaranteed personal incomes have risen in the last eight years at a total height - I think about 70%.The growth of the average wages, which is the only relevant, or the inflationary movements and partly the wages, is 140%. If they were normal, if they were consistent and professional, they would have a family benefits law so that they could now realize it. And all the kids would have a family allowance. And we wouldn't have been harmed by the lower categories. This is what, of course, bothers us in New Slovenia. How much money is needed: or more or less is a matter of priority, pure priorities if you give him a preference. Just as Mr Brenčič mentioned today about those additional benefits from the war compensation bill - it is for duplication, the key is pressed, it is not for that. This will pay us back, in family politics for sure. There's no benefit to population policy. We will not solve population policy at all, but this is a pebble in this system. Ladies and gentlemen or colleagues, about there in the 1950s, the average child allowance was more than 20% of the average wage. Do you know what it's worth now? A little over 5%! It's a success story -- someone, not everyone. The family's unfavorable laws are linked to this. This is all in the context of family policy. On income - a constitutional decision is being translated; on parental protection and family benefits - I hope that she will see the light of the world, but in view of my manner so far, I have no prospects. So I would appeal to everyone to accept the amendment of New Slovenia to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Brenčič will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to the Minister and Secretary of State, who will have plenty of work to do on this segment of family policy. In the SLS + SKD Group of Members - Slovenian People's Party, we certainly support the proposal of the law, both by content and by procedure - we support the rapid procedure - because from 30 April on, the new law on parenting, which will regulate and regulate the parental benefits, continues or continues to grant the child's allowance selectively. This means that the amount of the child allowance depends on the number of children and also depends on the family income or on the income of the family member, depending on the average wage in the country. This kind of child allowance has been very positive, and especially for low-income families, a large number of children. In this respect, there is also a social note in the amount of the children's allowance, which is true, given that our society or the state budget is not rich enough to grant a child's allowance to high-income families as well. Someone who, after all, has a family member’s income strong over the average salary in the country would mean a child’s allowance, for example, for one child of 3,000 a month and does not need these three thousand. But to someone who has little income and many children, this child supplement really means a lot to him. In the SLS + SKD Group, we are convinced that the increase in long-term births in 2000 is very much linked to this selective child allowance or largely depends on it. That is why we certainly strongly support this law and also support the efforts of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social policy and persons with disabilities to accede as soon as possible to the basic law so that this Parliament will finally adopt it in due course. We do not support the amendment of New Slovenia because, what I have already said, this society, this country is not so rich that somehow the one who leads to kindergarten with the broken south and brings the children to kindergarten puts up a higher-a-governance of the one who already on the outside gives a sense of some perfection in the property condition. For the time being, we support the selective child allowance as it is being imposed or continued by this law. And in this context, we will also work in the adoption and consideration of the umbrella law on parenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Members, Mrs Montenegro will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister and Madam Secretary of State Alenka Kovšca. Well-known colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we have an intervention law prepared by the government to resolve the gap because, under the current Family Benefit Act on 1 May, a universal child allowance should be introduced, which unfortunately would significantly reduce the level of social security achieved in low-income families. This is precisely why we decided in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats after a thorough weighting of the analyses and all the arguments to support that intervention law. The current Family Benefit Act has been governed by the Universal Child’s Supplement since its entry into force since 1993 - this is said to have been in force for almost 8 years. We believe that it is precisely because of this fact - this is said, because of these eight years, we should keep a selective child allowance, which in particular helps families with lower incomes and those on the threshold of poverty and those with more children - because the enforcement of the universal child allowance would significantly endanger those who need it most. The very in-depth debate that took place on the Committee further strengthened this fact. An additional, very important argument, which has further convinced us in the United List of Social Democrats that we are doing this and in favour of families, that the universal child allowance is not acceptable also because, taking into account the tax benefits in force, it would harm families with more children and lower incomes because the benefits of the universal child allowance in wealthy families would be very poor or completely unnecessary. For example, think about how those who are truly at risk would look at us, you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, if that was the way to vote, because they still think we have high wages. Such a universal child allowance would, under unaltered other conditions, exacerbate the situation of families with the lowest income. The highest child supplement, now receiving 44,000 children, would fall from 26 percent to 41 percent. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we have decided to support this law and expect an in-depth discussion on the new law on parental protection and family benefits to help the most appropriate and fairly selective allocation of funds to help families and their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to present its position? Yes, please, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Nicely greeted. The LDS Group will support the proposal for a law on the height of the child supplement. We agree that the selective child allowance, which has been in force since 1993, is the most appropriate form and should remain in force, as it is, pending the adoption of the new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. However, the implementation of this intervention law is necessary as the implementation of the universal child allowance on 1 May would certainly significantly reduce the social level of social security already achieved, in particular in families with a higher number of children and lower incomes. The maximum child allowance would probably be reduced by around 15 per cent and the universal child allowance would reduce the social situation of more than half of the current beneficiaries. While it is true that in this case, as has already been explained, the resources in the State budget could be substantially increased, such anomalies could not be eliminated, but such an asset at the moment, given the financial situation of that country, cannot be expected. However, we will not therefore support the amendment, which removes censorship upwards and introduces a universal children's allowance. In view of the current situation, we believe that the family allowance must be selective, since in families that are above the current price, that is about 189 thousand dollars per family member, such possible child allowances, account for less than 4 percent of the total family income. On the other hand, in socially weak families, a child's allowance is an extremely important monetary income of the family, which makes sense for us to maintain the child's allowance, especially because of its social function, as a selective one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Any other members of the group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Peterle and Mr Drobnič submitted to the debate in writing. On a case-by-case basis, Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, this law is strongly tied to a certain date, to a certain date, and somehow we're almost closing this meeting today. However, it would be good if, after the adoption of this law, there were still a few reserves at a time when there is a procrastination veto to be able to decide on this at the next meeting, this is said on 17 April, and I therefore propose that we end this law in today's part of the meeting. And I would like to ask - because we are probably going to have a hard time closing the matter by 2:00, but I think it's really good that we pull those 10, 15 minutes and end the law.Please, Mr President, if this procedural proposal were to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Brenčich. I propose to vote that we conclude this agenda today. We're voting. Of the 61 present, 38.4 votes. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] Mr Brenčič's proposal has been adopted. Mr. Mojet's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	I myself have mechanically counted the elected Members here and the device is broken. I guarantee there's not 68 of us in here. So this vote was invalid.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	If this vote was invalid, we will find out in a few moments when we get a vote and put forward a proposal at this point, I would give the floor to Mr Peterlet, and in the meantime we will find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I was a Member at the time or later a member of the government when this matter was decided, and I must say that we were very proud at the time that we introduced a universal child allowance as a category which, due to the financial situation at the time, could not have been put into effect and has not yet been in force. However, this was in line with the resolution already mentioned and showed some principled or comprehensive attitude towards family issues, family policies, not only to children or not just to financial or social benefits. Now we see that this important category of the population is considered only in terms of costs or in terms of expenditure and children's allowance only as a financial remuneration. I think it's going in the wrong direction. I object to the fact that this matter is also part of, almost to say, created in a state of emergency. Much time has been available for this government or for this old government a little longer, since it was already known how money is, but with intervention again at the last hour, not to say, Friday afternoon and "if we do not decide today, it will be the end of the world again". So, this last-minute policy is an accident for this country, and I suppose for this coalition, and so on, just one-dimensionally, I don't think we're going to make a good decision. I have always been in favour of social justice, in this sense also for the necessary and appropriate selectivity in state support, not only in this area, but I would not like it to be because it has run out and can run out later and there will be another intervention law - otherwise this coalition can't operate and will say, "Let's not, but let's share what's left, let's share the most necessary." I think that there will be an increasing need for them to experience nothing, because with such a wasteful behavior, it will not be possible to follow the needs, even though the child is very few or much less than they have received childhood supplements sometimes. So, I deeply regret that the principle of the integrity of family policy or policy in this area is withdrawing or closing and that it is all being seen in this way only through a tolar, which will obviously grow smaller; the one who reads the budget knows where the money will go and where it will run out, and some also know why it will run out or whose fault it is. So, I think it's wrong that government, instead of running some kind of policy, just follows some facts. Instead of insisting on meeting the conditions for a universal child supplement, by taking due account of selectivity and other criteria, that is, supporting those who are most needed, simply says, "it is gone, we give up universality, we are only going this way." As I say, I am very, very sorry and afraid that this method will be used everywhere else and that we will be able to forget all the resolutions, not only that. Various resolutions have been adopted in this house as policy guidance in various areas; this becomes dead paper, all together will be a matter of "case", and I am sure that we will come up with this in great difficulty. So, I do not object or support that the matter is being handled selectively, but I regret that we are ending up with a policy that had higher ambitions, and that we will slowly come into a situation where a family that will have some children, treated essentially as a social problem, will ask this country to get something out of it, instead of those who plan families or larger families or decide for children, know that this country is happy to accept them not to ask for help - not to say, to read to the country - but to know that they are going to have some rights because they are also giving this country something. So now we've come up with some kind of policy derivative that only addresses the current needs of the coalition. But if it's six months from now, we're gonna have another intervention law, and I'm already protesting it in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I listened to the debaters of individual parliamentary groups and found that illogicalities were emerging, which was also being made public. If we were to provide a universal children's allowance, it should be at the expense of the lower categories. That's not true. I strongly protest that this is not true! Take a look at the amendment of New Slovenia. Nothing changes in the lower categories. Change only for the highest; the one that comes to the monetary allowance, the child supplement. That's all it is. We are not limited to the sum, the sum available, and then we need to divide it into children. That's not true. This was also made public. Because the country, as if it had some suspicion of child support, is now just a question of how we're going to distribute this: at the expense of the lower categories or the smaller ones. Let me just say that the universal children's allowance isn't just money. It is an extremely important symbolic act for this country to recognize the efforts of families who raise and provide, care for young people's potential to become a taxpayer and a pensioner. If we are serious, then if the law as proposed by the Government is adopted, I propose that a decision be taken to amend the resolution on the basis of family policy. And the second conclusion is that the government submits a new law or amendment to the Family Receipt Act to give some credibility to ourselves, to its citizens, and to others. If we establish this for 8 years, some intervention, then it is worthy to stop now in the summer of 2001 and say that we are not going to go to Slovenia with a universal children's allowance. That's all there is to it. That's the point. Besides, New Slovenia, once again, advocates that those families that are weak receive a scale like the one proposed by the government. We only open this line, which is set at some height. These are the truths and people need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. Since there are no more written applications for the debate, I limit the further debate to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want a representative of the government? Yes, you do. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	I would like to avoid any other interpretations but to clarify some facts. When the government suggested that, in fact, we should propose at least for this period a new law in the amount of a child supplement and, of course, it had to abolish the 1999 decision, which envisaged the implementation of a universal child supplement as recorded there, meaning 13, 16, or 17% in relation to the guaranteed salary, it had in mind the abolition of this universal supplement because the calculation showed that 63% of the families would be affected by the further policy in this area, which ran in the direction of selectivity. As a result, this law also has an intervention address. We have estimated that, as far as 63 per cent of the recipients would be concerned, this is said to be the case, of the 411 thousand recipients, because of the implementation of this universal child allowance. The second is what Mr Petty Officer says when he speaks of an open scale. And we have only proposed that what is defined in the Family Receipts Act should not be implemented during this period. And that the selective scale continues. I would also like to say that today's children's allowance represents and covers 80 per cent of all beneficiaries in Slovenia. And that on the basis of the scale being set at 99 per cent of the average for a family member, we covered, so to speak, except 20 per cent, all children in this Slovenia and the rest of the universality I think it is also provided through income or through facilities for children. And I would also like to say that the discussion about whether this government or the previous government was not friendly to children, as far as child support is concerned, will not hold. Indeed, at the time of 1993, when the allowance for children’s allowances represented 0,5 gross social product, today represents 1.1 gross social product. This is said to have been done in families with low personal incomes and more children. That is why I think that the government has been building a child-friendly policy in this area for some time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. Please, Mr. Tiny. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	A replica of implementation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	A replica, Mr. Peterle?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	a representative of the government, a representative of the government, that I am precise. [[...]] The government had two options to amend the Family Benefits Act in a coordinated manner, but not to be able to manage it in accordance with the guaranteed salary, I have already mentioned this to you. If it were to be valorised in a way such as inflation or average wages - not with guaranteed salaries, but with average wages - this could be introduced, this change, the children's allowances on that universal scale would be virtually 100 per cent higher. That's our opinion. I could choose this option and all categories would be better, and it would also be in the context of the Family Benefits Act 1992. However, it had another option offered in Novi Slovenija: to keep this intervention law, but the upper limit opens. One or the other. Both comply with the resolution and the Family Receipts Act. What you promise to do next, it's a pigeon on the roof - you know? We are no longer implementing the constitutional decision; the deadline has already expired - with regard to the law on income. The deadline's up. We're all getting ahead of ourselves. It's all interventional. That's our comment. It's a matter of will and priority. That's all. Not to mention that Nova Slovenija wanted to make children's allowances worse for the lower categories because this is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Peterle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Yes, I would like to ask the distinguished representative of the government when they learned that the law would expire, that we were here on Friday afternoon as in emergency situations and we must make an intervention decision. But you knew the law would run out. Why is this pressure always when it comes to changing the constitution when it comes to child support when it comes to other matters?Oh, my God! I'm protesting it! And look, the solution for the universal children's add-ons is nothing to blame, ladies and gentlemen, and Nova Slovenija is even less. And to give up every dimension of universality is a disgrace to this government and to this country. Every family for each child should get a confession - let's leave it for once - from this country. I'm not talking about socially beneficial events and actions. Not to reduce it now in just a financial or a receiving aspect is a sad thing to do. And now you're gonna call us to account because the marriage is gonna run out. This isn't serious. Surely you knew a little earlier that the deadline would expire and that something needed to be prepared; and I do not like to make decisions in such circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this matter? Short, please. Government representative, Mrs. Kovšca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Since I was directly challenged, that is all I would say is that the law was introduced in February; that this is today Friday and this hour - it is really not our fault. But I explained the intervention earlier. I would also like to say this to Mr Petty Officer; I think that these proposals can also be included in the preparation of a new law on parental protection and family benefits, which is also in the procedure. But the other thing is, if we open the scale today, out of 190,000 tolars per family member up, that's for the state budget of 5 billion tolars. I think it is possible to use them in this direction perhaps more useful for families in poorer economic conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you. Since there is no further debate, at least I do not see it, I conclude the general debate And I am moving on to a second reading, to a debate and to a decision on the individual articles of the bill. The material - please, if you look for it in this large pile - this is item 22, the material has date 29.3.2001. Review of the amendments tabled to the draft law on the height of the child supplement - rapid procedure. And if - so much so that we can find ourselves more easily - if you look at this material please, you will see that we have an amendment to Article 1, and by Article 2, we have six points, if I see it correctly. We are moving on to Article 1 and I am opening the debate. Who wants a word with the article and the amendment, of course? [[No one wants to.]] Since no one wants to say another word, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 17, 33 voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on the whole article. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 47 voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this article has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 2 and to the full debate on the Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Brenčič wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only explain this once more: no matter how we vote on the fourth and fifth amendments, the sixth amendment is subject to review, because it tells you that if the fifth amendment is adopted, the sixth amendment is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much for explaining. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Mr President, for the sake of clarity, I would like to ask if, at the time of the individual amendment, you can tell who the proposer is, because otherwise we are lost because it has not been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	We haven't done this before because it's all written.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Maybe in your case, but Mrs. Krebs, I think it does, and it's easier to monitor this review because I think - I suggest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	I'll do my best. So, we have an amendment to the amendment to Article 2, this is the order number 1, the proposer is Mrs Shirca. Who wants to discuss it? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	Only so much to explain that Mr Brenčič has already explained that I am withdrawing this because he is still in the future - on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-30-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	So I find that Mrs. Shirca has withdrawn, I say, point one in a row. Anyone want to discuss the other amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we can go to the vote. Can I? Good. Thank you very much. The debate is therefore gone and we are now voting in line, as the amendments are written. Article 2, paragraph 2, firstly, the applicant is a mag. Janez Petty Officer. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 15 to 40 voted in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the Mag's amendment. There's no smallpox. Moving on to point three. Third Amendment. The proposer shall be the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 48.1 voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the fourth amendment, to the second amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The proposer is the SLS+SKD-Slovenian Human Party. We're voting. Of the 56 present 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We're moving to point five. The proposer shall be the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. We're voting. Of the 56 present 18 for, 34 versus. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have the sixth amendment in order. Speakers: Group of Members, first-signed Mrs Shirca. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 35 votes in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. Of the 57 present 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 of the amendments has been adopted. We are now moving on to Article 3. Let me remind you. Article 3 reads: "This law shall enter into force on 1 May 2001." Just to make it clear what this is all about. Does anyone want to discuss Article 3? [[Nobody.]] Can we vote? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. Of the 57 present 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have also adopted this article. I'm going to the address. To discuss the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since there is no debate, we are moving on to a vote on the title. We're voting, please. Of the 56 present, 54 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the address. And I'm moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that or that an amendment has been adopted under Article 2 of the Act. Is there anything else that any of the qualified candidates would like to put into this amendment? The second paragraph of Article [[They don't want to.]] Does anyone want to discuss the whole law? [[No, no, ……]] What about consistency? It's coordinated. Thank you. Can we then vote on the law as a whole? Well, let's vote! Of the 57 present, 54 voted in favour of the law and no one opposed it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. I interrupt the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, the date of the continuation of the meeting is expected to be announced at the beginning of next week when the agreement on the continuation of this meeting is adopted. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye.
