ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Dr. Slavko Gaber from 11.00 to 12.30 p.m., Aloise Peterle from 11.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m., also Dr. Michael Brejc, Feri Horvat, Ivan Kebric, Maria Possonec, Davorin Terčon, Roman Jakič from 11.30 p.m., Pavel Rupar, Bogdan Barovic, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Franz Sušnik, Davorin Terčon for the afternoon part of the session [[Mr Pavel Rupar is present]] . From 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. they should be absent: Dr. Michael Brejc, Ferry Horvat, Ivan Kebrič, Maria Possonec and Roman Jakič. Is that okay? Thank you very much. Since we will be able to detect presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. There are 57 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I'm correcting the notice of absence and restraint: Dr. Andrej Bajuk is among us. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are also invited to this session; I welcome those among us. Today's follow-up to the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the adjournment of 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY, AND ORDER WITH THE DEFINITIVE WORK OF THE SUPPLEMENTED WORK OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2002 AND THEN AS FOLLOWS. Yesterday, we concluded our work in part of the general debate on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. I think it is time for an unlimited debate, Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because we owe it to colleagues and colleagues who will discuss to provide normal conditions for their discussion, I ask you very much for the necessary silence in the Chamber. Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I would like to say something about the national transport programme. I have been monitoring the development of our traffic, even on the highway, as a builder before I came to this Parliament and, of course, there was a lot that was not clear to me at the time; now I would almost say it was a little bit more. The program, which was written ten years ago, continues to follow those tables published in the 1996 Official Journal. Let's stick to him as the drunkard of the fence. I want to know how not to be able to do an up-to-date thing every year or every other year, what has happened so far, and what will happen. Also with the parameters needed to make every ordinary earthling understand this matter little. Today, we see that this program, which was once written that it was just a wish of god, is an approximation that is far from reality. This programme would probably also be partially as real as it would have been if the petrol tolar had been carried out as it was intended to be. I've asked the question of gas tolls more than once. I also looked into people who know about finance and follow this policy, and no one knew or wanted to give me a concrete answer, except one -- I won't say who -- and he said, "Come on, stop asking about it once, because you know how it is. If we need money somewhere, we take it from where it is. Or maybe you'll pay the drivers more expensive that gas, but that's, say, the driver's problem." I don't think it can possibly be. In fact, this is not fair to drivers or otherwise why it is misleading. There's no money, the highways can't work because of this, and the resources are like this and that, you can't judge real, etc. Since this national programme should be completed somewhere else, only two-fifths of the motorway programme is completed. Of course, I'm not asking any questions, because I don't need any answers, I've already got the answer, and that's why I'm just criticising a little of this policy, which has been what it is so far. [[...]] However, we know well, although I once heard on the radio that in Slovenia we should stop the construction of motorways, because if not, the whole of Slovenia will create only one construction site. I also heard one comment here yesterday. I don't think that's true, because the highway is also an investment, actually. Why? If, for example, this Maribor-Koper line does it once, it means that Slovenia will also come to Europe through Kopra, Koper will also have some sense as a port and one reason more that the port does not have to sell to Trieste, so that we can market what we have on our own floor. This is also a contribution to tourism, to the economy. If this road had been built long ago, it would probably have been easier to talk about our budgets. I am sure that the budget hole would also be slightly smaller and that tolls would also be collected to a greater extent and so on. Last year, for example, this summer I went to Koper, and there was such a stopper on the bench that it would come two hours earlier if I went along the Italian side; that is sad too. If I'm already on the road and I look at them as Primorec, because I live in the Vipavska Valley, I can't get past the problem, which also beats the region as far as the road program is concerned. I did my own tabular examination on the basis of this material I have at my disposal. I've seen that the money spent in these three years, which we're going to be in this reference here, is going to get about 8% of the funds allocated to regional roads, and the population is 13.5%. Now, if this isn't the right criterion, I'm sorry, but it should be around here. In this way, coastal villages are neglected, especially the north-west part of Primorska or Slovenia, from Kobarid to Vršič, where they have no connection, not with Ljubljana or with Italy, not with Austria, even have a bad connection with Novo Gorica. What comes into these places comes mainly for the recovery of earthquakes, reptiles and so on; for what investments, for what tourism, even though they have potential, there is nothing. In general, the Slovenian countryside is at risk, all over Slovenia, and this part of Slovenia is additional. This would mainly be said in the shortest lines. Now another very painful problem in Slovenia, which is not the case in Primorsk, these are prisoners at railway crossings. We're still witnesses, I'm not gonna tell you every day, but every few months, there's a traffic accident, and there's a car crash on the train. Even when we accepted the railway guarantee, it was mentioned that two prisoners would be made this year. Today, the Evening says that there are several of them across thousands of passages and that 2/3 of these crossings are unprotected. This whole thing to protect, at prices like one prison, I quickly calculated, it would be about 3 billion. If we work only two inmates each year, this matter will last a hundred years. If I consider everything I have said, then I ask myself, when each year the Prime Minister says so, we have a good budget this year. What's a good budget? Of course, I focused only on infrastructure, roads and railways. And as such, I can't possibly say that this is a really good budget. We are even talking today about what will happen in 2003. From what I mentioned at the outset, it was just an assessment, far from reality, and then I don't even know what will happen in 2003 and beyond. I cannot support this budget at the best of my will as a citizen of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Sok has an unlimited opportunity to discuss this part. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Yesterday I started a debate on the national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways, which Mr Mamić continued today. At that time, you took my word away from me, even though I later realized that you were not so precise to all the Members in this House and some of them were able to talk about regional policy in general, but about local policy and so on. Only if you look at the magnetogram. I did not oppose this decision of yours, but I respected it, but I stopped the debate and thank you for giving me the opportunity today to continue this debate. I will not continue with the road programme because, in fact, this is where my fellow Member, Mr Mamić, has now given his opinion. I would say something, however, that with this budget we are now in a situation where national programmes for the development of both road infrastructure and rail infrastructure will have to adapt to the budget rather than budgets to national programmes. This, of course, raises the question why this Parliament accepts these programmes at all. Does that make any sense? So who for? We are busy and wasting our time, and we are wasting our time by deciding in the majority liberal democracy that we will not discuss the 2002 and 2003 budget together, but on a case-by-case basis. This is, in my opinion, a waste of time because these two matters are so closely connected that we can discuss together. Why am I telling you this? Because you explained to us in the Rules of Procedure how such a rule should be adopted, that the work in Parliament would be as rational as possible. My friend Anderlich, you've accepted this. We are now talking about the 2002 budget, and then this same debate, I will say, can be repeated at the 2003 budget. As far as the Slovenian highway programme is concerned, I would like to point out once again that the government owes its promises, given here in this National Assembly, to prepare a national programme balance, because the matter, as it is set, is on a dead end. In 2003, it is expected to devote 103 billion to this programme under the national programme, last year 147, I do not know 153, the second year anymore. The gas toll was also supposed to cost over $50 billion or $250 million last year, this year 257, 2003 265. So these matters need to be corrected by law and coordinated according to the possibility that we will not keep telling each other over and over again: "The government does not respect this; the government does not respect this." I am aware of what Minister Rob said yesterday, that we should not think that all the programs we have set up will be met. Of course they won't. But if we can't meet them, then put them on some real basis, fix them so that our citizens and citizens know what to do and when to count. From where I come from, it is said from this prleški part of Slovenia, from Prlecje, people are very interested in when we will get a better connection with the Slovenian highway network. One basic definition in the national programme was to build motorways so that all citizens could reach the highway in half an hour. At this point we're going through Ptuj and Prague and we need to get from our work to the highway, sometimes an hour, sometimes an hour and a half, sometimes 55 minutes, like we used to. So it is imperative to solve these biggest problems in this area, this is Ptuj and Pragerska. But when I look at these budgets, of course, it turns out that these problems are also meant to be solved. The answer is this: Even if there were enough money to build highways and fast roads, things would not go into effect because not all previous procedures are ready, because the time limits for obtaining location permits have been extended, because this is often a complication. In some areas, however, locational matters are resolved, and they are not built; let us simply admit that there is no money. One of these cases is the Ormož - Markovci relationship, where you have even purchased land from Dars, even building some replacement buildings for those who are supposed to move, and so on. Archaeological excavations took place, and now the hectares and hectares of fields there are destroyed, weeds grow on them, and people want to know which years there will begin to build. However, if the definition is not to be built, then of course I suggest that these land be returned to normal agricultural use. As is now the state that piles of land are piled up, it is certainly not in our pride, and the inspectors are writing decisions to the state to destroy weeds so that weeds will not grow on these surfaces. So much for the highway problem, which, as has already been said, has also been described by my fellow Member, Mr Mamić. I would also like to talk about agriculture. Agriculture is one of those industries that we speak of in this national assembly. But we speak only in those constants concerning the possible disasters in this area. We were only talking about agriculture when we had to because of the drought, when we had to because of the cold or when we had to because of animal infectious diseases such as BSE, the last of which was full, I would say, columns of all our media. However, we are not talking enough about agriculture in the direction of Slovenian agriculture in the rapprochement of the European Union. I am undoubtedly and firmly convinced that agriculture will be the hardest to adapt to Slovenia's entry into the European Union. At this point in fact, according to my assessment, we are missing the basic starting points so that we can negotiate at all, we lack our requirements, our quotas that would even defend the principles of the common European agricultural policy before the European Commission. We are only talking about what kind of budget we have for agriculture. I don't know if it's 54 billion, as predicted this year, whether that's enough or not. I certainly can't give an answer to that. However, it seems to me that when I look at the structure of the costs in this agricultural work, most of this money is about the functioning of the agricultural ministry, it is about the functioning of institutions, institutions. It also seems to me that these institutions are constantly increasing, in fact, every new law we adopt brings new and new bureaucrats, new and new jobs. In this respect, I do not believe in the government that it will hamper employment in the field of the state administration. I know that we are adopting a mass of one rule that brings ever-new and new requirements. But I wonder if, in fact, I would say, that direct agriculture has some great benefit from it. A relatively small part of the budget is actually the most important area in the field of agriculture, this is the restructuring of Slovenian agriculture. The restructuring of Slovenian agriculture alone is the right item in this agricultural part of the budget, which can bring our agriculture closer to European Union agriculture. For the restructuring of Slovenian agriculture alone, if you look at the budget itself, we allocate very little resources, totalling 5 billion Slovenian tolars. It seems that, with such a split of the agricultural budget, we have moved away from the basic document adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia in 1993, identifying where the strategic and developmental possibilities of Slovenian agriculture are and where we have written that, when we develop Slovenian agriculture, we must also preserve the settlement of Slovenian space and, of course, preserve the cultural identity of the Slovenian people. To ease these issues, we invented a system of direct or compensatory payments. The Ministry of Agriculture is constantly explaining that this is what Europe requires of us. I say, however, that the system of direct payments in the Slovenian agricultural area cannot have any greater effect. Why can't it have any effect? Simply not because Slovenian farms are too small. In a situation where the average size of the Slovenian farm is about 5 hectares of land, the minister would answer that the situation is not such that the rental contracts make this relationship completely different, even if it were once more, if this average was 10 hectares, the indirect payment system does not produce any significant effect. However, this is a large amount of funds which, according to my assessment, could be used for more specific purposes, which is to restructure Slovenian agriculture and thus to make it clear and truly adapt Slovenian agriculture to European conditions. One of these issues in the process of adapting Slovenian agriculture to the European Union is the system of complementary activities. We talk about this a lot, but the country, with its structure, with all its partners, both in the advisory field and in the financial field, what little it does. Therefore, everything remains more or less than a proposal than one well-established paper programme, which is not implemented in practice. In this relation to agricultural and rural development, I would like to mention only one more area that we have described very well in our strategic development guidelines - this is the use of renewable energy sources. First of all, we have recorded the use of biomass and in the strategic development programme by 2010 we will build 50 large biomass systems by then, then we have written that we will build 5,000 smaller individual boilers and 100 modern boilers that will heat up, I would say, villages or some neighborhoods or that will be dedicated to various plants of the processing industry and so on. This entire programme, if we want to implement it by 2010, is valued at about 40 billion tolars, if I say in Slovenian tolars. This programme is intended to contribute to a significant reduction in the amount of CO2 in the air, to which we are also bound by the Kyoto Agreement and other international agreements. This programme is intended to affect economic growth in less developed areas, in particular to contribute to more equitable regional development and to create new jobs. However, if you look at the funds allocated to this programme itself, you can see that this programme is certainly not possible in the coming years, because in 2002 the government allocated 1.6 billion tolars to this programme, in 2003 1 billion, and then in 2004 and 2005, around 200 million tolars. At the same time, it also accounts for foreign loans, and these are written in particular, but already from the calculation itself, if we want to follow this programme, even if it is financially highly sub-capitalised, we should devote more resources to the energy use of biomass once more than we anticipate in our budget. This would also follow the direction of the European Union, which is expected to replace fossil energy sources by 25% by 2010. Thus, in the European Union, 25% of energy is expected to be generated from renewable sources in 2010. Slovenia, which is 56% forested, has an ideal opportunity for this use, but I say that then, on the other hand, the energy development programme should do much more in this direction than is budgeted and funded for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Unlimited discussions are thus concluded. The debate is now limited to five minutes. I think Mr Kramberger spoke to you yesterday, correct? Here you go, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I just want to say a few words, some thoughts about the agricultural part of the budget. The preparers of the agricultural part of the budget followed the reform of the agricultural policy, which was adopted three years ago. Here I assess that we need to ask ourselves whether there are any new moments and circumstances that will dictate different funds on the budget lines of the coming financial year. The assessment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is that the level of the proposed budget is still the lower limit acceptable. The fact is that the state budget is a political act by which the government and the coalition set priorities. The agricultural priorities in this budget are therefore aimed at bringing the European Union closer and coordinating with the reality of global and European markets. When we adopt the budget, we need to ask ourselves some questions and answer them. In my opinion these questions are: Is the issue of the ECO social agricultural problem of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food or the whole government? We also hear several times that somehow automatic belongs to the care for agriculture of the Slovenian People's Party. I don't think that's true, it's a mistake. The issue of agriculture and the development of the Slovenian countryside is a key national development priority of this country, this government and ultimately this national assembly. The key question remains how to properly prepare Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmers to survive the tough conditions of the European Union. This is an eminent development issue; it is also a matter of the future of the Slovenian countryside. In our party we are convinced that Slovenia needs a long-term development agreement that will contain an internal consensus to address these issues. We must also ask ourselves where our agriculture is today, where it will be in three years, when we knock on the doors of the European Union, and what will be the image of European agriculture when we join and the rest of the members. We must also ask ourselves whether it is really possible to replace the late budget within three years. If we look at a ten-year-old route, assess the state of agriculture ten years ago and today, we need to make it clear that the steps towards the European Union are far too small. Here I mean the size of our family farms, the ability of our manufacturing industry and the organisation of our farmers in the cooperative system, in the chain from production to sales. I also estimate that the funding allocated to the environmental programmes is too small. So far, we have not made enough use of European funds, and we will not be able to make the best use of them in the future. We need to know that 2/3 of Slovenia is in the field of limited factors. For the budget, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I will vote, as will our Group of Members. I estimate it could be even worse after all. However, I am sure that if we do not have strong, economically stable farms in Slovenia, we will be in a subordinate position at the time of entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati would like to discuss it, too, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Several times in the National Assembly, the issue of financing real estates or hospitals has been bottled up. In fact, in the last ten years, these hospitals have clearly grown old, individual equipment departments have grown old, and investments are not part of this decline, nor are investments in hospitals failing. Therefore, a law on hospital financing was adopted in 1994. Since it was not implemented until 1999, as it was then, it was amended, supplemented, and was then promised in the amendment of this law that by 2003 the financing of the most urgent cases will be provided for 60 billion for all Slovenian hospitals. Not only are we talking about the oncology institute and the pediatric clinic, which are at the forefront of our discussions, but it is also the Celje hospital, it is the surgery department in Slovenj Gradc, it is about the occult and the otorinolaringology in Maribor, it is about gynecology in Murski Sobota, the whole of Slovenia is actually in poor shape. The 60 billion that the law is supposed to provide - by law - do not take into account the current budget until 2003. It briefly ignores the provisions of the law, and with the current budget for the following year and 2003 we will achieve perhaps half of the obligations that the law gives us. There remain 20 to 30 billion unfulfilled duties arising from marriage. I wonder how this is possible simply by ignoring the legal provisions. Well, to make the irony even bigger, a few days ago, we have actually received a proposal in the National Assembly these days that this law should be supplemented, amended and that the commitments that the State is supposed to fulfil by 2003 will not actually be fulfilled until 2008. It's like if you did a serious traffic violation, then you'd go back and change the traffic signs. This is a force of dangerous doing, very bad doing this government to commit a conscious violation of the law, and then he wants to retrograde some patch over his illegal work, a patch that will, of course, be confirmed by the government coalition in here. I wonder what it is, and I wonder how it looks at this government coalition, whether it's still a legislative body, this national council, whether it's just some kind of asset, some kind of pendant that retrogrades and covers the mistakes of this government. Once again, I'm filing a case involving a traffic violation. A weak driver who has driven too fast through the village, of course, makes mistakes, can make a terrible accident. A weak government that spends too much tax money, including on the purchase of different aircraft and so on, should in some way be sanctioned, suspended. How else can we stop her if not with the law? Nor can we prevent this by law if, of course, we are so ignorant of the laws we are adopting here. Few of this budget, with such a relationship to the legislative authority or to the laws, of course, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would like to highlight some of the problems with the budget from the point of view of the municipalities. The investment part of the budget allocated to the municipalities is extremely modest in terms of the dynamics in the construction of infrastructure. The fact is that many have not yet regulated the basic needs of citizens: drinking water, roads, sewerage. It is on these segments that the polycentric development mechanisms do not function satisfactorily or no longer work. Increasing adequate spending in municipalities is not enough to cover inflation, not only to cover expenditure imposed by the State on municipalities by changes in laws and regulations. Let me give you some concrete examples. The financing of preschool education, where expenditure has increased by more than 30% over the last two years, which in some municipalities represents already 30% or more of the total eligible expenditure or municipal budget. There are also home aid supplements. The calculations show that, in the area of co-financing of childcare, new rules represent a real increase in expenditure of around 35% and that the high costs of current transfers over the last two years also threaten the liquidity of municipal budgets. The failure or inefficiency of tax exposures in the recovery of unpaid obligations is also noted, which means that the municipalities are further deprived of their budgetary income. In the municipalities, it is noted that the introduction of an environmental tax on waste disposal will constitute a certain source of inflation. For the central Slovenian region, which covers almost a quarter of the Slovenian population, it means that the government, with the price rise, has undermined this activity by 100%, with such taxopa will be another 200. As of 1.1.2002, garbage will be more expensive for these citizens almost four times. A major problem is also the compensation for the use of building land, which is the original and dedicated revenue of the municipal budget. The State of the municipalities provides for much more funds from this address than the municipality can actually collect. I have the example of the Postojna Congregation, where 105 million are to be obtained from this address, and in fact only 17 million will be received. The fact is that the definition of the revenue of municipalities for the financing of appropriate spending is not appropriate, as it also includes the dedicated revenue of municipalities which, on the other hand, require appropriate dedicated expenditure, the already mentioned compensation for the use of building land, tourist tax, compensation for changes in the destination of agricultural land and forests. The government no longer hides that it is clear that capital has been concentrated in Ljubljana in particular and has impoverished the rest of Slovenia, where some areas are even empty and remain impoverished. Less developed areas of Slovenia cannot be developed because intellectual potential is leaving and is concentrated in larger centres. Equal regional development will only be possible when local communities, as a basic form of local self-government, have sufficient autonomy and are financially independent. They are under-accounted for or disregarded by individual municipalities, or in the current circumstances, individual municipalities for a development-oriented project cannot succeed at all. The funds allocated to the regions shall be indirectly returned to the centres as the funds shall be allocated in particular to those projects involving institutions and advisory undertakings which have their headquarters as a rule in the centres. I wonder why we could not participate in regional projects of the local community, which are much more aware of the problems and actual situation in their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Since no one in general wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a debate and a decision on Apologize, you want to discuss it in general. [[...]] Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Respectable. In the 2002 and 2003 budget, the places and facilities on the outside of the Mure are more rarely mentioned, which could be said to be without demagogies, Siberia Slovenia, although this province also looks forward to and hopes for development. We expect the necessary infrastructure to connect the central parts of Slovenia. However, this highway connection is always distant in the hazy future. There will be no railway connection to Lendava yet, which would be essential for the development of the border region. I don't know if there will be enough political will and money to restructure small farms, which is essential in our area. I don't know what's gonna happen to Premur's barns that are already empty and empty even more. What happens to companies that go bankrupt as dominoes? What about the workers joining the unemployed army? Is this unemployment already up to 20% in some places in Pomour? What happens to workers who only get 50 or 60 grand for their jobs? What will happen to students and students who for a few thousand years are overpriced and cannot get the necessary scholarships? What will happen to those who have graduated but do not get jobs in the countryside, so home where their knowledge is most needed. And what will happen to the country on the tromé, which is economically and demographically severely threatened. We also expect development from the budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We can now go to the debate and decision-making on the amendments to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. The amendments are set out in the review of the amendments of 27.11.2001 at the same time as the amendment to the supplementary draft budget of 28.11.2001. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 221 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budgetary user to which the amendments have been tabled. We will first vote on the amendments of the parliamentary groups and then on the amendments of the parent working body. We are with the user of the "State Assembly" and the sub-programme "Activities of the National Assembly". I am therefore putting to the debate the sub-programme 'Activities of the National Assembly', to which is the amendment of which is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the committee to the sub-programme "Activities of the National Assembly" [[a review of the amendments with date 27.11.2001 and at the table is also an amendment with date 28.11.2001]] . We therefore decide on the amendment of the committee to the sub-programme "Activities of the National Assembly". We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments to the user's 'Office for the Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia', to the sub-programme'support to national communities'. In addition, two amendments have been tabled under number 1, the amendment of which is proposed by the group of Members with the first signed by Mario Possonec, noting that the amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the same sub-programme and is set out in order number 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 33. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We move on to the Committee's amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment under 2 to the sub-programme "support to nationalities" has been adopted. We are with the user of the "Government Information Office", two amendments to the sub-programme "media". Under order number 1, the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Andrej Visiak, under order number 2, is the amendment of the committee of the same group of Members, with the first signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the amendment by which we propose to set up a press fund. When the media law was adopted and discussed, there was much debate, in line with the print media, in order to encourage and financially support the development of existing or even the emergence of new media, in order to significantly open the way for the presentation of different opinions and other views in the Slovenian public. Therefore, the public would have the opportunity to compare information from different sources, and thus the possibility of a better judgment and ultimately a better choice. The competitiveness of information would certainly lead to better, more responsible, more reasonable, more rational and more prudent behaviour of all public funds managers. This fund would also provide support to local print media performing a role that is as important as local radio and television stations as an informant and an educator in municipalities and regions. Local printed media are also the only media that comes free in every household and every family in the surrounding area. At that time, most of this proposal was not supported by the National Assembly. The European Union has also seen that information is a problem. In the parliamentary group, we believe it is extremely important that we have a diverse space, a media space created by people of different social, cultural, religious, professional and other perspectives. We therefore propose to approach the improvement of this obvious weakness. It is clear that the proposed resources are not sufficient to resolve this problem, but we believe that they are sufficient to establish and launch the system and to develop a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members will certainly support this amendment, although of course we are aware that this amendment has no possibility of being adopted in this Parliament. Not even the slightest possibility, I am sure, because we had a broad discussion when we adopted the media law. The problem remains with Slovenia. It remains that the Slovenian media space is unbalanced, that in the Slovenian media area the Slovenian right does not have a daily newspaper to report adequately on matters that are taking place in this country. I can back it up, I don't have to go far back, I just take the newspaper Delo, November 26th, on page 5 the title whose brick sets us up and will set us up with walls. Look, in 2001, journalist Dela writes that Peterlet's government sold off the Slovenian bakery. As long as you, ladies and gentlemen, have the media on your side to write it like that, we know clearly that the bakery went on sale in 1996, 1997. As long as the media will report this to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes, of course, we cannot talk about some completed transition in this space. And that's a sad story. Let's say what's true, what's true, what's true, what's wrong, not that the Slovenian people "paint" with such records. You can see that you don't think I'm making this up. Here we have in hand: Peterlet’s government led foreigners through our bakery to see what they would buy at what price. It says here that they bought, say, one of the bakeries, I'm not going to mention which, for 8 million marks, and its value is about 50 million marks and so on. This, of course, is still Peterlet's government, and we who sit here know when this government existed, etc. Until this is the case, we are in an extremely difficult situation, and that hurts us. For this reason, something must be done urgently in this area. We do not have foundations, we do not have the foundations for democratisation introduced by Western European countries after the collapse of fascism. We are today discussing graves, some corrections, declarations, what happened in 1945. Once again, it would be good if you didn't support it, and I believe you won't, maybe even some of what I'm saying seems ridiculous. It's not funny for me. It's sad to see things that way. If you do not support this already, then think and as a government coalition, as an extremely strong government coalition, however, do something in this direction so that at least in this area we will be pouring more pure wine than it looks at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Of course, I also support the adoption of this amendment, which is supposed to mark the beginning of some changes in the area of media space at a symbolic level. I can say that the best case and the most evidence of the need to launch a new strategy in this area is just reporting on the budgetary debate. It is a key debate in every country, and it is also normal for voters, taxpayers, to be informed about the efforts of Members, including local ones. If you look at today's media, it's not a picture of yesterday's debate. I fully understand the journalists themselves, I absolutely understand them, because their owners are exerting tremendous pressure on them; not only are they so targeted, plus in these media houses you still have a significant percentage of the capital company, the compensation companies and the sanctions are immediate and severe if they sin against it. On the other hand, it is not understandable that the newspaper in Maribor is not ready to listen, for example, if Mr Pukšič spoke about the regional development that is undernourished there, and if he is fighting for that part of Slovenia, and not a word about it. If we are talking about the injustice that has occurred with the energy holding company - the question of whether it is wise to take real interpolation forward, if you can't get through, if it's not possible with objective information to penetrate anywhere, it's clear. The approach of television, for example, has also been announced that the budgetary debate will be broadcast. And one thinks, we're getting closer to a democratic Europe, and that's where it's happening everywhere. Yesterday, however, it was said that it was interrupted after the parliamentary groups took place. Of course, there is an absolute supremacy of government positions. And in fact, after you looked at the media, everything was accepted, everything was supported, no one practically mentioned that anyone had warned about what was going on. Only in order to reach taxpayers is there no point in asking whether the finance minister will be able to question or report new budgets before he starts implementing new budgets; it seems that there is 300 million money in each ministry in the pocket so that they can send it through public invitations - see the school ministry, 300 million; Dars, replace the tapes, the public calls do not apply at all; money flies left-hand, the chateau with shovels through windows; and the economic ministry - "the Court found catastrophic irregularities". We keep producing this under the same headings, everything keeps going as it's always been. And, of course, the papers can't write a pie down, obviously they can't. Or at the school ministry, they're starting to discover something because they're fighting inside the LDS and there's two groups that would have a school ministry. But there's only an intra-party reason that they can write something down. But real and objective information is not the need, because everyone has pressure on them, and I understand them, they can't. Maybe even worse than it used to be, at the end of the 1980s, when the taboos fell and actually considered a good journalist the one who hoped to write about taboo themes. And at the time it was actually written about taboo darkness. Today, government irregularities are taboos of darkness and no one practically gets them unless there's a signal inside the parties fighting, let's say in LDS, because there are two currents. And one current destroys another, and that current can say, there will be no severe consequences for this journalist, because that's the interest of this LDS wing. Well, there'll be more eventually. And fellow Members, I believe you will not press this button. However, be aware that with such a situation, which is due, of course, to capital interests in this country, the capital interests of a large capital for that country, which has its own logic, which, of course, does not mean the taxpayer, that small taxpayer. And I think that every taxpayer who pays taxes on a regular basis has the right today to be informed about what is happening to his money. And it would be about time we did. Because if we don't, the budget deficit will only increase. It's just gonna get bigger. Every year it'll be bigger, the country will literally go bankrupt. Taxes will be higher every year. Yeah, well, people can't be informed if they get the wrong picture. We must be aware here that practically taxpayers cannot be alerted to irregularities. With all the pressure on the press. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Pucko, then Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! It would be wise for you, Comrade Sok, to look at the ownership structures of these media you're talking about, or the newspapers. They are very much written and with a wide variety of political prowess. That'd be fine. And then we could talk about what these owners are following. They're following what they owned the media for. Profit. Thank God. And since you've already mentioned the name of your respected colleague Loizet Peterlet, he may not be guilty of this - I'm sorry that he's missing - what you've been talking about, but he's probably guilty of the failure of the Slovenian, for the problems on TV 3, and elsewhere. These are the media where politics gets involved or involved. And because she got involved, the results are the same as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Kremjar, then Mr Sok and Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. As a journalist after basic education, I am very happy to see a multitude of possible editors here in Parliament. We hear many times about what needs to be done, and I am sure that the media owners in Slovenia only listen, if not, and it would be good to send them a magnetogram, perhaps one of us, but ask for some draft concepts to guide this policy. Look, we meet up with the media all the time. We constantly stumble and want to prove, of course, that some of our colleagues in each debate want to prove that the media are in the hands of someone, that I don't know who this person is, and that of course we need another medium that is supposed to be doing something else. My colleague Pucko has already said: It is really not only necessary to look at the structure of the owners, it is not important, it is important that these media have owners, that these owners of course have an editorial policy, which they also implement through their editors. That "yours" is a mistake if that's how editorial policy is done. And that's what I'm saying. She has to be independent, and she's independent. And these media are designed by editors of journalists and not designed by any new or old CK. If anyone thinks that, of course, I'm deeply confident, he lives in error, he doesn't know these things. And if you think that the story of the media is to be done in such a way that we will now have some new media, where we will command, how these media will write, these are the experiments that have failed and will always fail, and no matter which side they are on, whether they are left or right. Whether they will be extremely extreme or a little less extreme. Because these media aren't for sale, gentlemen. They've never left, and they never will. The Communist didn't go to the store once either, but they shared it for free. Because we wouldn't sell it for a few pieces. And even today the modern communists would not go, and black or green or orange communists will never go, so the media must be what they are. And please, let's let the media do their job once, and the people in the media do it the way they have to do it. We don't label them like "Taliban radio like "red and I don't know what kind of media." Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There are three more replicas. Then there's Dr. Bernick's debate. Mr Sok, then Mr Jerovšek and Mr Petan spoke to the replica. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. That is exactly what Mr Kremjar has been talking about right now, and that is exactly what we want to do. We're not talking about a lion or a right-wing newspaper, we're talking about funds for a newspaper like that, but we're talking about media pluralization. So pluralisation, in which we could use financial means to help journalists to become independent. Because just when you mention these ownership structures, of course, it shows that these journalists are not independent. And of course, a journalist who can write in 2001 that Peterlet's government sold Slovenian bakeries, regardless of the ownership structure in this newspaper, probably had to write it according to some editorial wishes. Rather, the editorial desires are such that, unfortunately, political power is drawn to this country. And with more resources for these purposes, it might be possible to prevent this lying, not to say where, from being less obvious than it is in this country. That's what this is about. I will not answer to Mr. Puck because he would be more difficult to teach us about certain values. But I'm very surprised that the Communists wouldn't even buy a Communist. Well, that means he really had to suck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Puck, when he taught us how the ownership structure of all the media is clear and that they have their own interest and that it works, I don't know, on a capital basis. That's not true. Indeed, the ownership structure is clear and is in the hands of the intended owners. For you remember what panic arose last year when the Bajuk government was taken over and how Mr Lenic, who was one of your kind, sold a share of Del's newspaper house on the last day. Just remember how panicky and urgent this was. About the ownership structure, that this is not well thought out and that here is the largest control, of course, of capital, which today's capital did not come from its deposits, its savings, its stings. I mean, 80% of the transition has brought in, and I don't judge anything. They feel, however, as if they have burned it and, of course, defend their interests. About ownership and precisely defined policy [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] [[...]] Look. I've read the whole thing recently, I don't know where, the owner of the Evening House is 25% Talum, an aluminium company that was formerly 100% state-owned. Journalists also write, it doesn't make sense, and this stock was purchased at no higher price than the market quotation rates. There's a terrible ideological interest. Since I've been in this factory for 20 years, I know exactly who the high politician in the back is, I know exactly. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] All I'm going to tell you is that a change in the name of this company in 1992 was led by the Studio Marketing promotional house. [[...]] We know that she also ran another campaign at the same time and that when asked how much it cost, the responsible person in the factory said one pass of a monthly or annual gross product. Those were the answers. Of course, it was a terrible gratitude at the time for this media house to have two campaigns at the same time, etc. Tell me, if it makes sense, anywhere in the world there is no such thing as a metal industry, the metallurgical industry is buying media houses. If there wasn't a very clear interest in media control back there, and I don't judge journalists, the press is under pressure. The case of Friday is also a case of pressure if they get out of their mouth if they write about what is wrong with this capital, which they do not allow to write. And, Mr Kremjar, you may have done more damage and more harm to journalists in the future, perhaps with your naivety and well-intention to be called for by the President of the Tecomisision, because you have sent them clear evidence from this liberal democracy, to those who are watching the media and putting pressure on the editors - nothing will happen to them. Even after yesterday's television broadcast, which was said to be broadcast and then interrupted, I understand the world of RTV, what a terrible interest Mr Lumbergar had in maintaining. And, of course, Mr Lumbergar will have to do for gratitude as they have decided, of course, this is clear. And these things are integrated, they're connected, and let's not be naive. And you're not naive, you know exactly how things are, you're better than us, you're just convincing here, and you're being naive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Petan, then Mr Partljič, Mrs Shirca and then Mr Kremjar. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So some of the claims that have now been made really convince me that not everything is really what it wants to show us. In fact, Mr Puck's claim that the basic purpose is also to the media and the owners of media profits, and he said, thank God that is the case. I would remind him that we also have public media and also the public media have their own owner. I think there must be objectivity in the media in addition to profit. That's all I'm gonna say, and I don't think I've said it all. Therefore, the argument that the media should remain as they say, the basic feature is profit, I don't think it is. There has to be objectivity, too. However, I am not going into what is objective and which is not, I am talking in general about media policy and the mission of the media, in general, because I do not want to mention any name. In the end, it's more of a joke than it really is. Because it was also called the title of a newspaper from years ago, the one, well, the Communist was called [[was directly named]] , and there was a claim that it was nothing and no one was buying it. Yeah, well, why didn't you say that 15 years ago? Now someone is breast-feeding or saying it clearly; then they would have said it if that were the case. I am not saying that this is true, I am simply asking in general, and I am asking this second argument that it would then be very good and positive if this claim were put forward at that time. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Partlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	So some of the themes that we mention are evolving and nothing helps if we've done them five times, six times, they're always lifting us up again because they seem to be so funny. And now I will contribute to this myself; I will try as much fun as I can and hope that the damage will be done - then it is better to put once again on the agenda a special point if the budget stops here and cooks so much. Now I'm risking - I don't know if the cameras are on or off now, I'm risking a very service statement that no one will like. We have very good media. We have very good media. There are no independent media. There are no independent journalists. Everyone's addicted, they get paid, they're dependent on what's going on, and so on. I'm 60 years old, and I remember well when we were independent as a country. I also know about an anecdotes when Gaddafi asked Yugoslavia for an answer, why some of us cynically write about it. In the 1980 ’ s, he was visited by Lazarus Moses as foreign minister and had a map of clippings from Gaddafi’s newspaper on the table. And when he got there, he said to Moses, look, we're independent, we're two countries and not classified, look -- I know that there were also three articles in the bird's diary, it had been cut out. And then Moses said to him, "I could bring six of these files, "How bad they write about us in Yugoslavia, about government, about communists, and so on." And then he threw it away. Do you imagine - I don't know who would be the judge of this fund, neutral - to get independent. Who's gonna lead there? Or perhaps you, Jože, who knows exactly how to be and how to get involved in everything in some way. We've already had a diary like this that we tried to force. When I take the evening, I know exactly which journalists are, let's say, right options and which ones are left. And I think it's obvious, clearly, and I have to say that I don't think at all, he thinks they're the ones who either support the LDS or something. On the contrary. I like it just as much as I do you, I write six articles, I only get published every 7th when I protest. I don't have it, and when I listen to our ministers, I'm constantly being shown by the desperate what the newspapers say about them. [[...]] Before he came to me, he sat next to me, he saw me, he said, he showed me the evening if there was anything terrible written about yesterday's debate. So that this story about conductivity, and how unhappy you are because the media treat you like this, is exactly the same story as the Maribor story. We're so unhappy because we're being "fucked" by this Ljubljana. And if we had three ministers here once, it would be order and it would be over. It seems simple for adults and mature people, "a broken soul", unnecessary. I think we have some pretty good media. I buy Ali, I buy MAG, and I'm not deprived of anything because the right hand has something to say. Nothing. I don't think I'm short-handed. I even feel like it's repeating itself and so on. And I want to know what it says. And that's what I'm interested in. As far as the Communist is concerned, count your colleagues among your own. They also have experience leaving him in a drawer like us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we are at the point where we explain the amendments, in short, in the discussion on the budget rather than on editorial policies, I would like to divert attention to the second amendment. We are currently discussing the amendment signed by the Group of Members with the first-signed mags. A visionary with whom the government's information office is expected to increase its funds by 40,000 tolars. I would like to warn you that we will continue the discussion with 40,000 tolars, as I have said, and at the same time I would warn you that in the next debate we will meet another similar and related amendment, which should support the media and audiovisual culture with additional funds for 100,000 tolars. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	40 million, 100 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	100,000 tolars. The difference is obvious, so it seems to me that any rationality would dictate that we take a look at the amendment that awaits us. It is expected and targeted at the Ministry of Culture, not the Ministry of Information. The purpose of the amendment's support, which awaits us, has two reasons. The fact that the amendment that we are currently facing is directing money into the fund for what is not the so-called pluralisation of the media that we do not have. At the same time, the larger item we will meet up with is the fund we have. Moreover, it is faced with the so-called implementation not only of Slovenian conscience but also of the directives of the European Union, which the budget of the Ministry of Culture has overlooked in anticipation and promises. That's why there's been an amendment that we're going to meet. In short, I would like to point out that we have two items dedicated to the media. One that has once-wanted a two-year transitional period for financing or for transforming and implementing European directives within the negotiations and which has not been remedied at the moment, except in law, but not in finance, and the other, I will say, imaginatively, with the law-unsupported item in Mr Andrej Visiak's amendment. It is therefore impossible to vote for the amendment that we are meeting with at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There are three more replicas. I also draw your attention to Ambassador Majde Shirca - because I myself have often intervened in the debates that go through the frameworks that we have before us, and I have received very much of the readings - of course I ask you again and it is my duty to remind you that in my discussions you do not go where we cannot actually go, even in the context of the rules of procedure which, however, limits our debates in one part. In view of the fact that I have allowed, I also allow three replicas concerning probably the previous debate, which exceeded the framework of the amendment we are talking about. Mr. Kremjar, Mr. Rupar and Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I agree with the intervention, but I have something to say. Mr Jerovšek, colleague Jerovšek turned from editor to researcher and at the moment made a discourse and metamorphosis and found out what kind of action it was and what caused it. I'll think about it, of course, I need some more time for such serious ideas. We have really drifted away, we are talking about things that actually have nothing to do with the budget. But, as for owners and profit and editorial policy, let us let us separate these things once and for all. Media is a lucrative business around the world, and as a result, banking capital enters these media, including entrepreneurial, private capital, not only and not because of the influence it has. You know, these hands aren't as long as they look in the first moment. The media is making profits, and that's why the capital is going to these media houses. Let us realize that this is the case, and the vast majority of owners want to benefit from the money they invest. Of course, there are also possible deviations from this, and probably they are and not just with us, but basically that is it. By the way, the already mentioned Communist was included in the membership fee. You also have quite a high, I've heard, membership, you could also make such an officer and share it with your members, it's no problem at all. Do they already share? Well, then it's about the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. As I mentioned, the two replicas that were in this work, I still allow, then I give the floor to Dr. Bernick, who has long since volunteered to discuss this amendment. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, Madam President. The replica is intended for Mr Partlich. Nothing's gonna hurt. Why such a fund? So, I don't think there's anything special to explain that in those types of opposition where I feel like we're being deprived of the media, we want a little bit more, but especially objective reporting. It is simply a matter of not being able to achieve a simple objective so that a medium that we believe is not in favour of a person, such as the opposition or any party, is given an opportunity to be asked about another opinion when reporting an event. So, it's so pluralism of the media that, or inside the media house to have each side, now I'm going to talk like you, Tone, left-right, your opportunity to tell your view of an event. That's not what we have. But if it does happen, if it does happen, then I will not now say "a priori" that it is not, but of course reporting the other side, let it also be from a newspaper that is more "right", and to the left that is so turned and so much, I will say otherwise directed reporting that there is no satisfaction in the end. Of course, that user, who is either a citizen or a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, does not know exactly what can follow from this event. So it's just that these finances may speed up the work of such a fund so that it can in some corrective way also affect such a relationship, either left or right or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Another replica. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you. I'd like to replicate [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	I'm asking for peace. Mr. Kangler, the replica. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	I would like to replicate some of my fellow Members from the opposition as well as a fellow Member in office, Mr Partljic. Look at the media, and given that I was sitting in this Chamber also in the previous term, I hope to say that everything is not as black as some of you speak today. As far as reporting the contents of our house is concerned, I wouldn't like to comment. However, if we look at the fact that practice has become such that all the parliamentary questions raised in this Chamber are directly broadcast on television, there is already great progress. That some things, especially those dealing with the Internet, can be accompanied by meetings of the national assembly also via the Internet; that television does not just transmit interpretations, that it also broadcasts the debate on the budget, is already a major step forward. As far as certain other media are concerned, where the capital shares of capital, which come from different colours are concerned, if I may say so, is their policy and, sooner or later, as a biological process when man is old, will also come this time in the media, which will bring some things to bear, some media, as far as the position is concerned, will not agree. As soon as that happens in every democracy, it is either a democracy that has a ten - year history or a century - old history. As for Mr Partljič, considering that he mentioned the Maribor story, he mentioned the Evening, which is based in Maribor. Comrade Partlič, if you are such a wise man, but if there are so many of you inside you, you were one of those Members who wrote eight pages of the letter to you in the Maribor Evening, which, of course, at your request, did not publish after a few days. In that letter, you've treated us, those who come, even those who come from your party who sit in rows opposite me, very well. What am I trying to say? What I'm trying to say is that liberal democracy has or has no influence. And, Mr Partljič, as hard, as politically, as you look at this problem, the few who are sitting in this room are looking at it. If you can speak for me on the streets of Maribor - and I will not say the words you said, now behind this stage, because they are too ugly - that if I associate with some of your party with one interest, that I work for the well-being of those people who came from where we come from, elected, respected colleague Partljič, by which I did not "feel" with some of them, or how could I continue to quote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Mr Kangler, I apologize, but you are the last to allow a replica of the debate that is completely across the border, but you are making a personal agreement with Mr Partljič on a personal level, far from the amendment we have before us, far from supporting and pluralising the media and so on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	I'll finish if I may. I'm sorry you don't know these stories. Mr Partljič certainly knows her and knows how much the media are involved in this story. And if you're not satisfied, I think Mr Partljič will at least realize that he's holding something on to it. I will no longer politicise with Mr Partlic in this direction, nor will I replicate. Thank you for your obedience.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Partljič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	[[It doesn't sound like it at first.]] That you stopped the discussion. [[...]] Of course I'm speechless. I think that even someone in this National Assembly should be involved in putting someone's previous professional deformity into the role of a Member. I don't understand how anyone knows the article I sent to the Evening about holding before the city council meeting because I didn't get it published. I removed it two days later because the content was exceeded. But how can someone now tweet what is written in this article and what to say on the streets of Maribor, I must say that he is taking my breath and it seems to me that he is talking about some times where my personal freedom is threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Mr Partljič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	But I wrote down my views too publicly. I was running for mayor of Maribor. It's just that I have a different view of whether the city is proud or ugly. I am only different in this detail, but all Members are as my colleagues were before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Actually, I can see that the first offense is better than the last one. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not allow any more debates or replicas, and I will every time I go beyond where I will assess them, through the scope of the amendment before us, to the general debate on media policy and the assessment of media policy in our country, which has nothing to do with this amendment. We went into this debate, allowing it to the extent that I had warned that because I had done the wrong thing at the beginning, I was addressing this limit. That is why I ask you, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, to give my warning to the three of you, where I have allowed the replica, to conclude and give my word to Dr Bernick, who has volunteered for the debate on the amendment. [[A voice from behind.]] Mr. Puksich, please. [[...]] But as soon as this isn't a procedural proposal, I'm gonna interrupt. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. I ask you to respect the rules of procedure, so I am procedurally proposing, as you have given the opportunity for the three members of the ruling coalition to speak, so give a reasonable opportunity for three other members of the opposition to respond. Otherwise, of course, it's a violation of the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The three MPs did not reply to the position, but one member of the opposition and two MPs, I think that was the ratio of 6:3. But that's not what this is about. It's about Dr. Bernick. [[...]] Here you go. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Lord is from the government, colleagues and colleagues! Madam President, I think we should allow more replicas. I'm giving up my time if you do this, and I'll call back later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Be my guest, Dr. Bernik, you have the right to discuss amendments under one and two to the subroutine - media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Okay, thanks. Since we are talking about the media, let me immediately say that it seems to me that Slovenian media are at a technically very high level compared to foreign media. Every medium that's printed, we like it. But it's not the technique, it's the content. Unfortunately, with regard to content, I have to find that some media are extremely light, sometimes even approaching the yellow press. If I go straight to the comment that was given that the print media were here to make a profit. Let me say that if our media is getting readers with such writing, then it's relatively sad for our culture and for ours, I'd say, sightseeing and more of a tantrum than anything else. Slovenia is approaching Europe, trying to meet Europe. The signs that something has to be done in this sense are great. For example, if I mention that after more than half a century, the government has remembered that Slovenia is full of graves, etc. And now all of a sudden, he's in a hurry to make it right. What makes you think that is? Surely not out of the goodness of the government, for otherwise we would have done so a long time ago and in a much cheaper way. If we look at our print media, we will see that there are incredibly many magazines, newspapers, which is almost abnormal for such a small number of people. You have to ask yourself where all this came from. See if even those magazines and everything we get on the bench are free of charge, where they're from - so-called civil society. On the other hand, we can find that we do not actually have civil society because every civil society we have or so call it is in the government's pocket or the government is funding all these things. If the government stopped doing so, it would certainly have far fewer media or printed sources, and that would be no harm. Well, earlier it was said how the media are dependent or newspapers and so on, but they own their own, and it was generalized in this, czech, look what owners have, and you'll see who's in the back. I don't think it's necessary for a person to know who is behind these media and that some of the structures are what they were in the media, and, God help me, they haven't all turned overnight and they won't. Let me mention that I am extremely disturbed in this honorary house by the fact that there is almost no pluralism. I think we should think about that. It's not about us, you, and so on, but it's about what we're gonna do with this country. I'm sure there's a lot of people in the position who think, who see things, but when there's a vote, there's Paul's instinct, so to speak, an electoral machine that goes through all the good proposals, and that's what we're always good at. If you look at how we vote for the good things you propose, it almost never happens. And that's what we should be thinking. If someone is rooted in the old system or doesn't think at all, then I understand it, but I think most of us here are not in this category. So I would ask that, as far as the media is concerned, they try to understand what this is all about. See, many journals, or those that are larger, four, will not blindly publish any comments on the article and so forth. Around the world, they also have the habit of having an open side, a corner, or something like that, where people can publish different views. We don't have this practice; let's say, as Saturday's annex, that's where people come in, but we should ask ourselves, how many people never come in because they're on some list, and why? I don't know, but let's ask. That's a fact. I do not blame the journalists themselves, but surely the one who deals with this matter has some criterion that never permits or rarely allows [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] Something to write. So, something like this, maybe this would be an intermediate stage or something, the media should be aware that every Slovenian can, if he has something to say about what they wrote, answer and that he can be contacted. I myself support this proposal, and I hope, when we go to Europe, that we will not come to Europe with as much luggage as we have now, because, after all, other people see beyond what is happening to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Because of the terribly weak position, the opposition in our Parliament and the protest expressed to me, and because of, I confess, my faults, because I initially allowed a broader debate, I allow three more replicas to be left blank, namely, Mr Jerovšk, Petan and Pukšič, then we will move on to a decision. Mr. Tanko, I'm sorry. In order, first Mr Jerovšek, a replica, then Mr Petan, Mr Tanko and Mr Pukšič, after we have made our decision. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek. You can join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	In order for you to know your mistake of violating Article 70 of the Chamber of Parliament, you have committed an eclectic violation, I must say this, because I have not been warned in my debate and I have also adhered to this subject of the amendment. And I volunteered first for the replica. Please follow the rules of procedure in the future. I agree that you have the perfect bubbling voice and that because of this the journalists have all commended you but this is no excuse for violating the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	And not for not warning you in time, I agree. I will continue to warn you in due time. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	No, because you keep taking the opposition. They can all answer. [[...]] You didn't stop them. You're in violation of the ecclatan because I'm also going to specify the incorrect reference. Mr. Kremjar said I turned from editor to researcher. I've never been an editor, but I've been a researcher, and I've been a success. It's true that I've been a researcher, and I don't want to be such a tease that I've ever been an editor. Mr Kremjar was an editor, just the last time one of the journalists spoke to me about Friday, she said 'yes, because he was my editor', the passport was very slippery. I don't know what that meant. Now I'd like to answer Mr Partlich - yes, but he's not. I don't know the funny way. However, this is a good sign that Mr Partljič has come forward. Because he does answer when it gets hot. And actually, with these replicas, that's how it goes. I can't agree with him that we do. But there too are those writers who think a little differently in this society, but in a few hundred or a thousand loads. And this is not the right option, and these are in-depth articles, too. At the same time, I want to say that I do not condemn any journalist - not a single journalist! I know they're trying. However, Mr Partljič, that is indeed true. I don't know what he's ever written, but I do know that Mr Partljič's Evening Attack on Mayors, who wrote that MEPs from the Maribor, Styrian area should support interpolation, and that it was very gallant that he attacked the whole of Maribor's interest, and that it was in the background of this message - Mr Mohe didn't say - also that it was necessary to feel a little bit like Mr Mojet about the world of Maribor's theatre. These are clear circumstances. He got what I know, the attack on the other side, and that's how this society works. And that's what we have to say when we talk about it. Finally, I would say that because everyone stinks about how they didn't read the Communists and I read it myself, but I was never a member, but I read it several times because there were good articles in it, and I'm sure it wasn't at all wrong - they had very good journalists because today some of the same journalists have a great deal of space in the newspapers and have special columns, columns, humorous parts of the newspaper, and if they were so bad journalists at the time on Communists, today, when there's money, they wouldn't get a place in today's newspapers. They did their very good work at that time, and they still do it very well today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Perhaps, on behalf of the proposer, I would just like to draw attention to some of the things that are in this proposal, which I have already said. The fact is that the press is extremely unequal compared to other media. Now we all have this, if I say so, mega-printed media space, but I also said in this explanation that there is a problem at the regional level. At the regional level, it is possible for the media to support local radio and television stations through the media fund; this is not the case for print media in this area. And I think that, because this country wants to approach the development of the media in some way evenly, it is its duty to support the local print media. I think that this requirement or this proposal is not, in this case, in any way, in any legal or legislative context, but this is a completely correct proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. And the final replica, Mr. Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you for meeting the mistake of our procedural response; in the future it would be truly good and right to leave the opposition with at least as much room for this speaker as the coalition has. Look why I'm going to support this amendment. Today's Evening reads "A Budget, Farce or Real Optimistic". This is all about the budget, since yesterday's whole debate. It shall list only representatives of parliamentary groups. When I was talking about regionalisation, and I wasn't the only one, something was telling us - and this is a replica to Mr Partljič - it's not about groaning and it's not about crying, Maribor, Ljubljana or the media, such and different, but it's about facts. In fact, the data show any statistics on how it is in this area. However, of course, the media does not report this. Look, even more! When I specifically spoke about regionalisation, I said that it was only for the Sava region that regional development was in line. And in the documents, in the government documents on coherent regional development for 2002 it is written, and I will read that you will not tell me that I am inventing something: "The system of regional policy is not set in a policy direction where the government will set up instruments and incentives in a fixed and definitive manner in its competence for which it would prescribe mandatory implementation at regional level. In this case, it would be classical decentralisation, which is not possible at this stage for both legal and public financial reasons." Of course it's possible. It is possible, if possible for one region in this Republic, then it is also possible for the other regions. But when we talked about it, the media, like they are, they don't write. Because they probably get instructions about how much they can and what they can do. And when he spoke, the replica in this part was to my colleague Kangler that pluralism had moved on. Yeah, part of it. When he's talking about sent-off questions. But look, of those sent-off issues, which are a classic instrument in the opposition's parliamentaryism, the opposition's parliamentary issues are broadcast on television when, of course, positions that can be agreed with ministers at any time and anywhere, and so on. It's a classic object of opposition. And that's why we need something in this area. If we're going to solve this with this fund, I don't know, but maybe it's an initial step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the two amendments to the sub-programme "media", the same candidates, a group of Members with the first-signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We're with the user of the Ministry of Finance. One amendment has been tabled for the sub-programme 'development and humanitarian assistance', whose proposer is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. An amendment has been tabled to the "investment and development programme" sub-programme for the same user with the first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. In recent years, the adoption of a number of laws, as well as other implementing rules or sub-legislative acts, has significantly affected the resources of municipalities. If I list only some of the laws we have recently adopted, these are the Law on Libraries, the Amendments to the ZOFI or the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, this is the introduction of a nine-year-old, then the abolition of school transport co-financing in other acts, this is mainly about progress in public institutions, changes in standards in kindergartens, and finally the introduction of VAT, and for all these interventions, the State has not actually recognised any compensation to the municipalities. All these interventions are significantly higher than the indexation of the principal, which means that the municipalities have taken over the burdens of the state at their own expense or at the expense of their free investment assets. The relationship between, or the original relationship between, the principalino and the obligations established after the first round of the formation of the municipalities was significantly damaged. This burden on the congregations or the laying down of congregations is often misused to prove the need and even the failure of the congregations. We are probably not aware that the municipalities are the only reliable guarantee for regional development. All others, including dear agencies and similar institutions, are only an additional and largely unnecessary consumer of already modest development resources for municipalities and non-existent regions. I am of the opinion that this amendment, or this proposal, represents only about 40% of the funds lost by the municipalities in these years. And I also expected the government to at least partially summarise and provide other resources, according to its opinion, more appropriate if this proposal for redeployment is not the most appropriate. However, there is a problem and the problem is becoming more and more. Many mayors also point to this. This is pointed out by both associations of municipalities, which give numerous warnings to the State and the media. Some of these active mayors are also Members, and I hope that within their parliamentary groups they are loud enough and effective enough and that we will come from words to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the applicants, i.e. to the sub-programme "investment and development programmes of the municipalities". We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Two amendments were tabled for the sub-programme "Support to Slovenians in the Foreign and Overseas Movement". Both amendments are proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed France Puksic. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Replace and Around the World, after a lengthy discussion in which representatives of the Office and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education were present, warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proportion of the budget in accordance with constitutional obligations intended for Slovenians in place and around the world is decreasing from year to year, thereby seriously jeopardising the existence and development of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and other Slovenian communities. In doing so, the Commission also drew attention to the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia and the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission has therefore proposed, at its meeting, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when preparing the supplementary draft budget for 2002 and 2003, provide adequate means for the fulfilment of constitutional obligations to Slovenians, both in place and worldwide, for 2002 and for 2003. At the same time, the Commission on Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, found that the draft budget for 2002 and 2003 unfortunately does not provide for the implementation of the law on the visibility and soundness of Slovenia's RTV programmes and local non-commercial programmes in areas where the Slovenian national minority lives. The Commission therefore called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take this into account in the preparation of the 2002 and 2003 supplementary draft budget. In view of the fact that this has not been taken into account, it has already been said on the committee itself that if the government does not comply with the conclusions, we will prepare an amendment. As a member of the National Assembly, I have prepared two amendments together with co-signers. The first amendment speaks of spending 250 million or adding to the item on constitutional obligations, supporting the Slovenian national communities in Italy, Austria and Hungary and co-financing the programmes of the Slovenian minority in Croatia, in accordance with the 1996 resolution, which has not been taken into account so far, 50 million. However, it has started to move and change significantly in this area. Then, for item 6.2.1.2 - constitutional obligations, support to Slovenians around the world, 200 million is allocated to the following activities: financing of additional regular social activities which are of particular importance for the preservation of national identity; then financing of media activities and interest links, financing of summer courses of Slovenian language and financing of youth activities, from professional excursions, camps and so on; financing of new societies established in the former Yugoslavia, and financing of seminars for cultural animators, teachers of Slovenian teaching, archivers and so on. It is not unnecessary to mention that for decades Slovenian teachers around the world taught Slovenian language in overseas countries without any financial compensation. It is not necessary to mention that this was only done in a loving and, of course, at its own expense. In any event, it is also important to make an amendment to the law on visibility and soundness, since Article 6 of this Act states that the volume of funds for each year shall be determined separately in the financial plan of the Public Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Notwithstanding this provision, the Government provides funds to enforce the law by redistributing funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000. So far, unfortunately, no funds have been made available. Regrettably, the draft budget, despite the Commission's call, does not therefore provide for any funds for 2002 and 2003. Yesterday, in the general part of the debate or the other part of the debate, I spoke specifically about the numbers for this purpose intended for Slovenians in place and around the world from 1994 to 2002. The funds for this purpose have decreased by exactly half, from 0.26 to 0.13. With the adoption of these two amendments, this would be slightly rectified and would have come back to 1996 when even a little less was provided when 0.22 per cent was provided and in 1997 0.17. So these two amendments would slightly correct the item in this area. On the other hand, as we have written down that the Slovenia in place and in the world is one of the priorities of foreign policy, I hope that Members and Members will not oppose this amendment or look at it with their eyes, as some like to say, it is a waste of money across the border. Not like that, probably substantially more can be returned to the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, the two neighbouring countries are already in the European Union, even through these two, in a variety of projects, we can get more funding from some institutions as well. Yesterday, one such interview took place when a co-financing share or a co-financing share from the European Union is also provided for our national television, together with the Austrian ORF. These are important projects. Those Members and Members of Parliament who are working more closely on this matter are aware of this and, in view of the unanimous decisions taken by the Commission, that the government should take this into account, I expect these two amendments to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I support these amendments, and in doing so, of course, or some of the experiences that I have received during our visits to other countries where Slovenians who are inhabited around the world live. Slovenian diaspora, if we can call it, which has moved from Slovenia for various reasons, is the present diaspora of political emigration, but there are also the second and third generations and the first generation of economic migration, struggles hard to preserve the Slovenian word, to preserve the knowledge of their ancestors and to transfer this knowledge to their descendants. Despite the fact that in some countries, because laws act to reduce the number of Slovenian-speaking people, some of these people are completely normal assimilated into the environment, in such and other ways and forget the Slovenian language. However, these people who feel the Slovenian roots in themselves, considered to be Slovenians, are the best ambassadors of the Slovenian state in the world. I think our country and our public, as well as this national assembly, are not aware of this. When we were with the parliamentary delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka, with all three entities, we have always met with Slovenians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know that in this present country or the former Yugoslav Republic in such or other ways there is something already in Austria after the official duty, when they were placed there under the Austrian state, the Austrian state decree, and then in the old Yugoslavia and even more, of course, in Yugoslavia after World War II, that a lot of Slovenian experts were posted there, and some of them, of course, also made pure personal connections, are said to be marriage and so on. I must say, this can be confirmed by colleagues, we were extremely warm when we met these people and the third generation of descendants of Slovenians from the laws that were mixed spoke a fine Slovenian language. Some have learned, there have been cases where some officials in these societies have told us that they have already lost their word. However, the fact that an independent country, a democratic Slovenia, was created has aroused such national feelings that they have learned to go back to the course inso to learn Slovenian and now speak a fine Slovenian language. But I was hurt when we found out, and we were in an awkward position when we found out what projects they applied for and what answers they got and how little of that money there was. I'm sure that's what happens to them all over the world. Unless we realize that these roots are part of our roots. Our tree grows from common roots. If we do not do anything to preserve these roots, to promote the state of Slovenia, or to be so miserablely stingy in this area, then we write to these people a strange fate or send them a symbolic message: "Stop thinking about being Slovenians. Assimilate as soon as possible. Turn off the Slovenian soul in your heart." I don't think we have a moral duty to do that. That's why I hope this amendment succeeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan. A replica or a debate? It's a replica. That is, a replica, first in a row, Mr Švagan and then Mr Auschwitz. Mr. Schwagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope this amendment is not adopted. I can also tell my colleague Puksic that he would not have called me an anti-Zamaesian or anti-Slovakia, those living abroad, as was the case when we voted against the reduction of VAT when all the firefighters informed, even in Zagorje, that I was against the firefighters. I am in favour of legally respecting the obligations undertaken by the previous Parliament. It is specifically the funds of the Zagorje, Senovo and Kanjiarica mines. I don't want to hear from all the amendments because 50 percent of them are on the same line, closing down the mines of Senovo, Zagorje and Kanjiarica, by the Social Democratic Party. Last but not least, it's 2.2 billion tolars, and the Social Democrats are making amendments of 3.3 billion tolars, which shows that they didn't have enough time to take any other items. Of course, on the question that arises in Zasavje, why always with these items, I always say miners, leave them because they don't know what they're doing. Here I propose that the state assembly of these amendments of 3.3 billion and also in 2003 of 2 billion from the Trbovlje and Hrastnik mines do not support but support the legal obligations and I propose that we do not support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Azhish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! Of course, I have a personal problem with this amendment. I am a member of the Slovenian Commission around the world, and I am also Vice-President of this Commission. However, in some parts it is necessary to complement Mr Puksic's explanation for this amendment. Indeed, it is certain that the funds and the extent of the funds in a few years or in ten years of independent Slovenia, when special care has been given, are also constitutionally dedicated, both to foreigners and to Slovenians, who are displaced throughout many parts of this world, that the funds have indeed decreased. Of course, it must also be said that, at least several times in this committee, we have observed that both the State Assembly through the budget and, of course, the Office for Slovenians around the world in the foreign ministry, as well as the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture, have been able to keep up with the tasks which Slovenia has also constitutionally assigned to support the Slovenians living outside our borders. We will certainly talk a lot about the problem of displaced Slovenians in particular when we consider the resolution that the Commission has drawn up and will probably be in parliamentary debate within a few months, and then it would suggest a lot more words to address this issue. I am the one who strongly supports and reminds me of the problem of the Slovenians who have remained essentially without their own country, in a foreign country, even though it was formerly a common country. However, I have the perplexity on the other hand of course with what Mr Švagan has been talking about. No amendment is only beautiful in the part where it supports something that is respectful and probably necessary. These amendments are also taken, and it is not only Trbovlje, it is not only Zagorje, it is also Senovo, it is also Kanjiarica. These are the mines that have been participating in this money, on a program that's been running for years. This programme is called mine closure and regulation in these areas where coal has been exploited for the benefit of the whole of Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will not be able to support this amendment, because if we support these amendments, we come to the minus line, as it has been calculated, it is still a few other amendments, it seems obvious that some of the amendments writers are the most likely to be this item and they have exceeded it at a much higher level than the funds provided by the budget. However, I certainly think that the extent of the resources we have in this year and also in the budget for next year will indicate an increase in the future, in particular with the tasks we will adopt in this Parliament if we adopt a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Perhaps my colleague Puksic's conclusion is correct when he says that the problems among certain groups of our Slovenians in the world, and also, if I have closely followed up, he listed the neighbouring countries Italy, Austria, Hungary, Croatia and, above all, relied on their problems. It is true that there are certain problems here and some communities with which I have relatively many contacts and dealings have such problems. However, the way they are resolved by such an approach may not be the best. I stopped by and hope to say out loud that I will not support these amendments because they are too high, not because they would get too much money, but because they will collapse the system that my colleague Švagan was talking about, regardless of which part of Slovenia is interfering with, and no matter whose voters are there. There's another problem. The country of Slovenia has a fairly correct attitude towards nationality with us and our Slovenians in the world. If I listen to my Slovenians on the Hungarian side, they will be able to say that the investments that took place at that time were adequately covered by Slovenia. However, this case was not dealt with equally in the Republic of Hungary. And the relationship was unfavourable in favour of them or very positive in favour of Slovenia. At this point, problems that may also be an integral part of this budget, where the area of nationality is dealt with in our country, which I will, of course, support, because this is okay, in the media area. The use of Slovenians in the radio works does not get paid because the Republic of Hungary covers these obligations not so far as to make it happen, as you say, but because of the situation there, by that home country. With these things like here, it is wrong to cut into items that are sensitive and, of course, the way to solve the problem is also not fair. I could still list this kind of problem, but if I don't tease anyone, I'm gonna stick to not supporting this work at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State! I am going to support this proposal because I know the whole dynamics of emigration and I think that the funds devoted to these two amendments are urgently needed. Today it's not so much about the Slovenian borderline, so much for monetary support, but it's about other things. No amendment will be able to achieve this or to propose it. It's the right mentality relationship of our Slovenians here to them. When I walk through Slovenia, I see that there is still a lot of misunderstanding, sometimes even old thinking, when we were all emigrants who were not lurking in the regime trumpet, criminals or non-Slovaks or anything. If anyone wants to know more about this, I'll be happy to say it, but not now. That's why I think we need to think about it. For the last time on the committee, I also spoke about this amendment, and I supported it fully in this sense, where money should be given and where it should be taken. Later, I had a chance to get a little more information on mine closures and so on. Then I would say this, and I came to this conclusion: If this is not the right item where money is taken, let the government have another source. Yesterday, when we were on the Committee on Finance, as I said yesterday, there was a dispute that half a billion dollars would be taken to the Ministry of Finance. Of course, this was not liked by the gentlemen of the ministry and then there was a compromise when this money came from other sources and somehow nine users were deprived of it. This has shown that there are gaps in the budget and there are items that could be used with serious consideration and analysis of things. That is why the Secretary of State, who was the last person to answer to the Committee, did not need to do so today, would recommend that it should start thinking about it and then suggest that money should be obtained elsewhere if the money that should have been taken to close mines is so critical that this item is not real. So I ask you to vote for these two amendments, with all the enthusiasm for the Slovenians around the world. I hope we get the money, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am surprised that Mr Juban has taken such a firm stand against the adoption of this amendment, given that we know he is from Prekmur. Prekmurje was the area that in the past had the strongest economic emigration, and that an extremely strong community originating in Prekmur has been displaced around the world. I am also surprised by the fact that Prekmurje is a border province and I think that Mr Juban knows how strongly he is supporting and dealing with his minorities, and that he is dealing with his neighbouring Hungary, which, for example, even adopts the law for which the European Union requires that it be changed in certain terms, but Hungary is asserting its national interests and from this point of view we must commend it. We too should fight intensely for our minorities, for our emigrants in the same way. I cannot understand such a message, which goes from a Member from Prekmur to the world. I can't. I can understand Mr Švagan, where he has a problem with the source, with which, but this is a problem with the amendments and this Rules of Procedure. That's the problem. On the other hand, Mr Švagan, you know that these are resources, these laws for closing mines, in fact, a lot of this money is used for everything else, for political purposes, only for closing not and for the problem of those workers. This has already been the case in this country, and in fact, such funds should be used more systematically and more properly for the necessary operations. Look, because your Minister Kopač said that laws don't have to be respected and given funds for when laws are passed. Although I understand you, this source would also change with the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, I try not to inspire what is not among fellow Members. What you're saying isn't true, and that's not what I'm saying. Let me inform you of that. Personal things I don't like to talk about, even in public, my closest family is in South America, more than any of you. But we were talking about the Slovenians that your colleague Pukšič listed. I restricted myself to the Slovenians in Hungary, and I said first that the items are the ones that are destroying the coal-mining system that this country cannot afford. On the other hand, because we are not able to ensure this from the budget in such a way, the neighbouring country of Hungary must also meet its conditions to our Slovenians in at least the same way as the country of Slovenia cares for other nationalities in the country of Slovenia; not as much as it would be necessary, but experts who are coming say that we are among the better. And that's the problem. And those of you on this committee probably know the situation as it is, and that they need to be saved from that side because there are large numbers missing. And I mentioned an example when I said that the editor of the Radio for Uses of Slovenia does not get paid because things aren't covered on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Pukšič, then - excuse me, Mr. Grošelj, did you want to replicate or debate? Also replicate. Then you are behind Mr Pukšič and then Mr Švagan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Yes, look, so much for Mr. Juban. Firstly, this amendment would not give anything new, but would return, at least back to 1996, when about 0.2% was intended for this. That means we're doing a little bit of repair for eight years. Secondly, Mr Juban, these funds are not and will not be earmarked for any investment, but for programmes. Last year, for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia, an invitation to tender was made through the Slovenian Office in place and around the world - distribution of funds on the basis of a call for tender, and that was good. What a division we had, or was also on the agenda at the Commission’s meeting. The finding was that the funds were at least four times or 400% lower than the application for the tender. It was found that all the applications received were 100 % justified and should be supported. I'm going to try two things to be very specific. There's a factory in Monoster, an Austrian factory. Opel has a part of his factory there. The interest of everyone there in Monoster from this economic point of view is learning the German language, including the Slovenians, as long as after 30 years of assimilation. On the other hand, in Gornja Radgona, where we visited the company Article 7 on 9 November this year, we were told that from 1995 onwards, even after independence, so from 1995 onwards they start in primary school and this lower secondary school voluntarily learn Slovenian language because they see the economic interest because they see the possibility that they will also be able to benefit from this language. Of course, there is now a tendency on this Austrian side, in this Styria, to be one of the original subjects between English, French and Slovenian, of course, something needs to be done in this area in order to encourage it. But it's a very small segment. Colleagues and colleagues, this year is also a year of languages, and we will not contribute to this project, but contribute to it. In 2003, we would like to step into the European Union. The Slovenian language will no longer be a minority language, but it will be one of the equal European languages. All those who have invested enormously, Mr Švagan, years and years, not years, decades, in covering and working with their net personal incomes and, of course, will also work without your support, because you have a terrible negative, negative attitude towards this, even I hope to say, very inappropriate for a Member of the National Assembly. On the other hand, we are aware and today, through our Slovenians around the world, lobbying is taking place at very high levels, including lobbying for joining NATO. As much lobbying as it was for the largest Slovenian project in its history at the time of independence, and as much as it is now for joining NATO and, of course, the European Union, only in the biological history of us individuals rarely happens. On the one hand, we can truly be happy to live in this period, but years and years or decades, centuries will never again be like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Dear colleague, please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Absolutely. It's just the part where you take mining. Colleagues and colleagues, the method of amendment is unfortunately the same as it is. I believe that this amendment will be adopted and, of course, if adopted, there will be a harmonisation amendment made by the Ministry and then, of course, by the Committee on Finance. I believe that not everything in this title will go well, but it will be from this harmonisation amendment, but we will show good will for what is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to try some points of view, Mr Jerovšek and others, who have sought the necessary resources from other programmes, especially in the area of reducing the coal mine closure programme, I am speaking here for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine as well as for other coal mines. However, I was absolutely convinced that I do not need to come back to you today, given that I tried to explain to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in an appropriate way the contents of the Mine Closure Act, both Members from New Slovenia and Members of the Social Democratic Party, what technical closure means, of course, economic closure and not least what it means from this social and other point of view. Of course, I was sure that I was so understanding and that respected colleagues brought this conversation together and the content of these interviews to you. I'm afraid I don't. Therefore, dear Members of the Social Democratic Party, it was you who requested 1999 to carry out a preliminary legislative procedure or procedure around the closure of the mine. And, of course, you did it. It was also you, of course, who then also contributed to the adoption of the law on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, and also you, of course, are responsible when you adopted this law at the time, so that the funds will also be provided for closure. You Members, and we, who are here with a mandate until 2004, will have to devote about 16 billion Slovenian tolls for this purpose. And of course, when the mine closes for the period 2007-2011, an additional 45 billion will have to be provided. Please remember this information and take it into account. Any indication that these funds are, of course, being treated contrary to the projects adopted, I think that the grave insult of all of us, and of course of course of course of those Members, who we have adopted this law very seriously and of course, is also essential to the development itself and also to the further consequences in all of these areas that I have been talking about, in this suspense space. Of course, I could also use the words that we are even indignant about such a way of discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Yes, thank you for your word. Of course, I wonder what level to go to on the basis of Mr Puksic's debate and Mr Jerovska's. Of course, I expect Mr Pukšič to apologize publicly to me when he has indicated that I am against the foreigners and to the Slovenians abroad. With regard to the amendments themselves, I stressed that the Social Democrats have placed some 3.2 billion amendments on item 2.2 billion so that they can make at least so much effort to reach 2.2 billion at the expense of closing the Trbovlje or Zagorje mine, Senovo and Kanjiarica. They table amendments and prefer to have some 100 miners on the road as social-democrats and that the funds are foreign and Slovenians abroad. I can say, however, about the statements made by my colleague Puksic, that the Court of Auditors and his statements are more likely to be in another way because we know that he wants to be some kind of mascot of this House with his statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli replica. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Passion, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I hope you won't tell me that my replica is out of the frame of the text of the amendment. I also apologize to Mr Puksic in advance if I have misunderstood him, but I react to that part of his speech when he said that Slovenia will enter the European Union, that Slovenia will no longer be a minority language alone. Slovenia is already not only a minority language, but it is the official language of this country and it would be right to think equally about what it requires of us for historical and political reasons outside the borders of the country of Slovenia in order to discuss this ambitious debate. At the same time, I would just like to say that it is not essential how many speakers speak a language, but it is essential how the language system is developed. And Slovenian is developed a language system that also has all the attributes of statehood and speaks in favour of our sovereignty and our identity. However, I would also like to take this fact into account by the National Assembly in its linguistic image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate on these two amendments and moving on to a decision-making process. First on the amendment under order number one to the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in the place and abroad. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under two has not been accepted. We are with the user, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. Procedural proposal, mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Procedural protest is what you see. The attitude of the government towards us Members and this National Assembly is also reflected in the presence of representatives or ministers at such an important point as the consideration of the budget and, of course, the treatment of amendments. I do not think that this is an adjustment to the government's attitude towards the National Assembly and to us Members and, of course, also to the amendments' proponents. I think this also clearly shows how the government views the parliamentary procedure. He knows that this will be accepted, he knows that once again the coalition will overrun everything, regardless of the arguments and so on. I do not think that this is correct and I ask or ask the leadership of the National Assembly to adequately ensure, in accordance with the good practice of this National Assembly, representatives of the government, ministers, that they participate in the debate on the most important document, this is the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dear government officials! You've heard the right criticism of mags. A visionary. I respectfully invite you to the Chamber to be available to fellow Members and Members of Parliament for possible questions on individual amendments to the draft budget. We are with the user, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, namely the Fire Safety Sub-programme. One amendment has been tabled, of which the drafters are a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user, the Ministry of the Economy, one amendment to the sub-programme Restructuring of Enterprises, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. A little more attention should be paid to this amendment. We touched on the issue when we passed the law on gambling. At that time, the government coalition made casinos very easy to operate in Slovenia. She said, the argument was: 'The casinos should be helped because they do not achieve the result as necessary.' Our proposal is that it might be a little helpful, not as vehemently as a government coalition of casinos. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Your Honor! I'd like to ask you to keep your phone quiet. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. to allocate EUR 235 million for restructuring. [[...]] This is intended primarily for the textile industry and the leather industry, which are going through increasingly difficult times. We know well that Europe is helping the labour intensive sectors in various ways. It also has the appropriate instruments for this. Our country has compiled them under the State Aid Act. However, this is not enough; political will is still needed to ensure the necessary means to do so. This is possible in such a way that the market order is not broken and that it is aided either by a regional scheme or by a horizontal scheme. That is why I think that this proposal by Mr Bayuk is more than justifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the Enterprise Restructuring sub-programme. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. One amendment to the sub-programme Promoting tourism and hospitality development, proposed by the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, has been tabled to the same user of the Ministry of the Economy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm sorry, mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, again, for your word. This amendment is aimed at adopting the budget in accordance with the laws adopted. What does this amendment say? That compensation should be made or paid to those who have enforced it in accordance with the asbestos law. If Parliament has adopted the relevant legislation with the aim of preventing the consequences or what has happened, it is also necessary to provide money. I believe that this amendment is more than justifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I think your explanation is appropriate for the next amendment, now we are in the process of an amendment to promote the development of tourism and hospitality.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u100	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u101	It's okay. Would you like to discuss the amendment of the committee? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I have to say, this amendment actually surprises me a little. It does not pay to increase funds for the promotion and development of tourism and hospitality, for it is undoubtedly in line with those principles, which we have written down several times to help with the development of tourism and hospitality to a different demographic image of Slovenia - it is said to be maintained, to correct this poor demographic structure, which continues to deteriorate. The sources from which these funds are supposed to come surprise me. The Committee proposes, inter alia, to reduce funding for regional development programmes, direct regional incentives are said to be. On the one hand, money should therefore be taken to promote regional development and shift towards the promotion of tourism, and it is also proposed that programmes for the promotion of technological development be reduced, although we know that Slovenia can, in fact, remain in the European Union and survive this great challenge by accelerating technological development. I am also surprised that humanitarian aid programmes are falling. Last night, some of us were present at an event organized by Karitas. There we were able to listen to data during this event alone, increasing the number of Slovenes and Slovenians knocking on doors of various humanitarian organizations. And these numbers are getting bigger. More and more people need this help. But here I don't know, because I don't have all these accounts in front of me from which this is shrinking, but I'm looking at it as a framework, and here it's proposed to take this humanitarian aid. I would really like to say that before the vote, but now that one hour has passed, I propose that we vote on this later in the afternoon in order to discuss this further. I would really like to hear from the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who proposes this, as well as from the government, which does not object, any further explanation for such a decision. Once again, funds for tourism development programmes need to be increased. But the way it's taken, I don't think it's real. I would very much like to vote in favour of this amendment if the government says that it will provide these 100 million or 95 million tourism with any other reallocation within the budget and that the sky will reduce regional development programmes and humanitarian aid at the same time. But I can't agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since it is 13 o’clock, and several speakers are still being notified, he heeds the Magi’s warning. In this morning's work, I invite government representatives to join us in the afternoon's work to make them available to Members and Members for answers to the questions they are sending to them. Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much. I appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to ensure the presence or maximum possible presence, and I do not know if the invitation will suffice because they are not here. Then you can't invite them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I think the authorities have heard our two-time warning and invitation, so I hope that they will be available for our questions in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u106	I ask fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. I also respectfully ask that the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia join us. We'll continue with the adjourned 11th extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government, please all take your seats. We will continue this afternoon's session at the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that colleague Simšičev and colleague Peterle apologized for the afternoon part of the meeting. We will begin as usual by identifying the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. May I have your attention, please? We're gonna have to wait a while, even though I think we're almost enough. I'll wait a minute until we figure out our presence again. Is there a problem? I suggest we rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I'll ask for peace in the hall. We are in the sub-programme "Promoting the development of tourism and hospitality, on page 8 of the review complemented. Anyone else want a word? Can we go - I ask the National Assembly - to a vote on the amendment under order number 1 on page 8 to promote the development of tourism and hospitality? Comrade Sok, you, if I understand correctly, want the government's answer to your question. That's what I asked. My colleague Sok wants the answer he set before the break. Which of the government's representatives will answer my colleague Sok's question? Please, the government representative, answer the question. Please, please, you have the floor. You can get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Well, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u110	The question was raised before the vacation so that the government could consult on the answer. Comrade Sok, can you repeat - thank you for your courtesy - the question? And I'm asking you to give me an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will briefly repeat the issue, namely the amendment on page eight. Is there an amendment in front of her?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u112	I take this opportunity to once again invite government representatives to join the debate in the National Assembly. Please, Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u113	On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to propose a procedural recess of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Comrade Sok, we are now in the middle of a debate, we are not yet in the process of deciding, unless you withdraw the question or either [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought, in view of this hardship at the beginning of this session, that at this time these things would be settled so that the government could somehow consult. If you don't, I'll ask you one more question if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u116	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u117	I think that now the government representative has an amendment before me, on page 8 I am asking about the amendment proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and the government is not opposed to this amendment. This amendment proposes to increase funds to promote tourism and hospitality, suggesting that these funds increase by $95,000, representing 95 million. I said that our Group would certainly agree with this, but we do not understand why this money is increasing and somehow reducing other items. These items are development and humanitarian aid. In doing so, I explained earlier why I do not think it is good to reduce those funds that we are earmarking for humanitarian purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u118	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Programmes to promote the technological development of the economy are then being reduced. I explained that, too. In the concept of the approximation of Slovenia, the European Union seems illogical to us to reduce funds for those purposes that will actually affect how Slovenia will be prepared for the challenges ahead in the European Union. And thirdly, funds for regional development programmes are falling. However, during the general debate, as well as the specific debate on the budget, there was a lot of talk and all the speakers were actually discussing and thinking loudly that these regional development programmes, as regards financial resources, were sub-capitalised, are in fact not running in the direction of this regional development as outlined by the law. So, in this relationship, I asked -- why the decline in these three so important items. I said, however, that we agree if the committee so decided and if the government does not oppose it, it is necessary to increase the funds for the development of tourism, because tourism is one of those promising industries that will in fact - should help to ensure that the demographic image of Slovenia does not deteriorate. Then I asked for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich asked for the floor. You have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u121	I've already taken my word for it before the break, and apparently you haven't been able to record it. Yeah, you saw the hand. Is it true? As regards this amendment proposed by the Committee, the following history has this development: it is regrettable that the representatives of the Ministry of Economy do not answer - from the basic budget to the supplementary budget, funds have also increased for the activity to be covered by the Ministry of Economy, including for the promotion of tourism. It is estimated that Slovenia could take advantage of some of the advantages of near Europe, road, rail and similar communication in this segment as the global situation has changed and, of course, additional resources should be allocated for this promotion abroad. The Ministry of Economy then earmarked - even 100 million on this item - for other purposes, of course, according to these items, from which it is now redistributing to this promotion. Since it was necessary to find certain funds on these sub-programmes through a methodology that was announced or scheduled to be amended at this stage of the budget, this redeployment proposal was made. But it is true that the promotion of tourism has multiple effects mainly on local environments, because, for example, some Moravian Spas, some Dolenjske Spas, some Strunjan, Catež and so on are entangled in the local environment and there people of this tourism work. If this incentive is either directly or indirectly directed, it is also, of course, for regional development. It is not true that it is only that regional development, which is directly obtained for roads or for water or anything else, but also through indirect forms, if an activity can take place smoothly or contribute to some income, people are employed, the local community gets some benefits and so on. In this context, it must be said that the Ministry has received more resources, that it is not a matter of taking too little and that, within the framework of the law on the implementation of the budget in areas where there could possibly be a minus or a lack of needs, it can then, by means of the law on the implementation of the budget, redistribute it to these items. However, we cannot, with the amendment, because the Rules of Procedure clearly state how funds can be diverted on sub-programmes. So I'd say it's more of a technical amendment to how to place those extra 100 million for the right purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Your question, Comrade Sok, is also addressed by the Minister. Minister Rob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u123	It is this amendment, if I understand correctly, that transfers are made to funds for the promotion of tourism. Why these items? As has already been said and said by the head of the parliamentary group, the idea was first to redistribute within this programme to provide more funds for the promotion of tourism. This is also, of course, part of the discussion, as a result of the part of the discussion that went in this direction, that the tourism situation in the following year can, in fact, be relatively favourable for Slovenia if tourism is supported by appropriate promotion. As you know, it will take place in the structure of tourism, concerning certain forms of tourism, in particular that of the overseas, which is carried out by aircraft and so on, to a certain extent a reduction of the arrangements. It's already come to this. As a result, Slovenia's opportunity for tourism is actually greater than it would have been in the next year. Most of the tourism will probably be realized through transport by car and through nearby destinations. This is an extraordinary opportunity for Slovenia. That's why we were trying to provide additional funds. However, within the sub-programmes, there can be no reallocation within the programme. This would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. That is why we have sought solutions within the Ministry of the Economy, in particular in the case of items which are larger and in which such contractions would not constitute a relatively large contraction. For example, 20 million in development regional programmes, 20 million in 3 billion 456 and, of course, in the field of technological development, we have reached out to an item that is more than 1.8 billion, including 20 million. We were just trying to take something, relatively little by these big items. Of course, the Minister expressed her immediate concern and relative great sensitivity to these topics, as do you. That is why we agreed that if these items, which are also very important and also of priority, encountered problems during the year in implementing these programme items in order to provide these funds with ongoing reservations. However, it is important to say that we are not interfering with this item, but, in fact, marginally. However, we have committed ourselves to providing these funds if there are problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Does anyone else want a word in this debate? He does. My friend Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I support this proposal to increase the volume of funds for tourism promotion. The reply to the source, which we have already discussed thoroughly on the Committee on Finance, was given by the Minister of Finance. To support this increase in funds for promotion, I would add only this. After 11 September, tourism demand or tourism demand flows changed significantly after the event. That's what the numbers prove, that's what the data proves. Prognosis of further tourism trends also suggests that tourism will increase, say, in Europe in our most important markets. This is why all the eligible tourist countries decide to increase their funds and activities to distribute this expected larger cake of tourism demand in Europe. It is therefore appropriate to increase funds for this purpose at this time. The measures envisaged are, however, relatively small or I would hope to argue, too small. This is less than half a percent of the projected foreign exchange flow from tourism. It is in the interest of both development, growth of this economic activity and the necessary foreign exchange flow from tourism. However, the condition for this is to provide, among other things, greater funds for promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you, Comrade Ferry Horvath. Anyone else want a word? I take it that no and that the National Assembly may proceed to the vote. We will vote on the amendment under order 8 in the sub-programme Promoting the development of tourism and hospitality. Subsequent number 1 on page 8. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 42 supported them, 13 opposed them. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are under the Sub-programme Social Protection and Compensation for the Restructuring of Production. Someone wants a word before the vote. [[He doesn't want to.]] Therefore, I am putting the amendment under order number 1 on page 9 of the review of the Sub-programme Social Protection and Compensation for the Restructuring of Production to a vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. There were 22 for, 31 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. I am opening a debate on the supplements that are under review by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. First of all in the sub-programme Restructuring of agriculture and food. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Please, Comrade Azhish. I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Auschwitz has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the government's representatives. So this is an amendment that I think is the only amendment that has passed the test on the Committee on Finance and has received support from it. Probably because it does not interfere with the inter-ministerial problems of individual budgetary users, but it interferes with or redistributes resources in the budget of one, and this is the agricultural ministry. The reason why this amendment was written is mainly because this year, fruit farming was not included in the subsidy of reconstruction, although we know that it is one of the most important industries in Slovenia. It was also written for reasons because it is one of the industries that is likely to be affected by Slovenia's entry into the European Union if we do not make sure that the wine growing areas in Slovenia are restored, in order to improve the competitiveness of Slovenian wine growing, in particular with new technologies of intestinal choice, which are mostly obsolete. According to some available data, in Slovenia there are between 22 and 25,000 hectares of vineyard areas. These are the data available to the business community for the winery of the Republic of Slovenia. The finding of this community and other wine-growing associations is that Slovenian vineyards are already quite outdated. The depreciation period of vineyards is 25 years, and according to the areas we have in Slovenia, about 500 hectares should be renewed annually, even more so, given that there are already delays. The amendment interferes with the sub-programme "Eko 1" concerning agricultural subsidies with more difficult processing conditions. However, I am convinced that wine growing is also a sector that actually manages and processes and carries out its agricultural mission in the same areas. Since I believe that, despite my explanation, this year will be provided from the budget for next year's budget, I believe that this will be insufficient, because in any case, the year of renewal will remain unfulfilled. For this reason, I propose that these amendments be supported by Members and Members of Parliament, in particular because it is possible that certain problems that this amendment may cause to the Ministry of Agriculture could be compensated under the law on the implementation of the budget in the light of the possible movements of money from the items to the item within the framework of the provisions that ZIPRO has. I would not like to continue that the area of cultivation is also worth such attention, for we are now at the amendment, which is being tabled and which I hope will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u128	A number of colleagues have asked for the floor. We'll do it in a row. First of all, my colleague has the word mag. Kramberger, please, and in the end, Minister Mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of this amendment, tabled by colleague Ašić as first-signed, is, of course, good. I have to find that out in the first place. However, the item from which this money is taken is unacceptable. In fact, the Slovenian Agricultural Environment Programme item, Eko 1, Eko 2 and Eco 0 from this item, colleagues and colleagues, cannot and must not be allowed to impoverish it for 500 million. These programmes are also linked to European funds. If we reduce here in our budget, we will not be able to draw from the European funds. I therefore propose that, of course, we do not support this amendment, so that the funds earmarked for the renewal of vineyards in the next item, the restructuring of agriculture and food should remain in place, in order to devote these resources to the renewal of vineyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Kramberger. Next up is colleague Sok and colleague Tanko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your word. I have listened carefully to the explanation given by Mr Auschwitz, a fellow Member of Parliament. I must say that, just as my prenuptor has said, by transferring from one such important item to another, I also somehow cannot agree. But I'm also wondering about the very purpose. I would like to hear here, before we vote on this, the Ministry's position on the quantity of vineyards in the Republic of Slovenia and also on the quantity of wine produced. It is known that this year quotas have entered into force when Slovenia joins the European Union, that these quotas have become operational this year. As far as wine is concerned, the situation across Slovenia was also different from one region to another. As far as the area of the Losomerian - Armenian or Halo Mountains is concerned, I can say that farmers have met for the first time this year with large surpluses of processed grapes and that the price has dropped dramatically as a result, or at this time our vineyards do not know what the price is for this year’s donated quantities of grapes. On one occasion I said here when I asked the Secretary of State that according to the data of the Austrian wine company Felba, the price of grapes in neighbouring Austria was on average 2.20 marks. The Ministry can fix me. We're being predicted to be well below 1 mark. This, of course, has to do with large production quantities, but the reasons, as some have told me, also in the exceptional monopolistic position of Slovenian wine cellars. I don't know how to answer that myself. However, the fact is that the country should have a strategy in this respect and should know how much land to increase, what is the quantity of grapes that will bring some normal production costs, but not that, I don't know, we are increasing the production area to increase the quantities of grapes produced and then this grapes on the market doesn't have the right price. With such methods and with such approaches, of course we will invest state resources in renovations, and on the other hand there will be no effect, because vineyards will be, and this is already predicted in us that the vineyards, which were rebuilt a few years ago and even planted in lowland areas, instead of maize and wheat, will leave these vineyards. I may be in favour of this amendment, but I would like a clear position by the Ministry of Agriculture whether there is any further logic in this. I would ask you, honourable Members, to take into account here the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture that we will not go, I don't know, to make a political decision in one direction and only look at certain regions. At this point, maybe the bean and some of the wines in your area are selling very well, but it's not said that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we're already having problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister Booth has already signed up for his word, and before that, he's a colleague of Tanko's. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'd like to talk a little bit about the second and the third amendments. These are amendments relating to the restructuring of agriculture or to the area of comassations and rural development. The fact is that we face the consequences of the Earth's maximum, it is said that we have an extremely large number of farms with small surfaces and these areas are extremely fragmented. There is no rational production on these surfaces, especially now that modern technology, modern machines, are increasingly being used, and these surfaces are not the best. I think that in this area of agricultural restructuring we should take more decisive steps, so we also propose that the heading of the Commission and the rehabilitation of the Commission increase significantly, because only in this way will we get the areas that will be suitable for modern technological processing, only in this way will we get professional farms, with areas that will satisfy the economic minimum for each type of agricultural production. On the other hand, it is also necessary to invest significantly more in opening up rural areas, it is appropriate to invest in infrastructure, that these areas are more accessible, that complementary activities can be developed, that they can also start dealing with rural tourism and similar programmes, and finally that those who will remain in these areas and those areas are at least comparable options or comparable municipal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Comrade Brenčič, did you want a word? You've got it. Behind you, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to speak a few words about the amendment proposed by the Group of Members. My assessment is that this purpose is not good, it is very bad. To write such an amendment is primarily an irresponsible act for me. This simply means that something in the budgeting system is wrong in the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Let me break you up a little bit. We'll ask our colleagues for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Such an amendment was supported by the Committee on Finance as its parent labour force. But I say that, given the content of the Finance Committee and the membership structure, it was very difficult for him to make a peace-making or peace-making decision on such an amendment that interfered strictly within a system of an entirely different area. In this case, agriculture. It is likely that the Committee on Agriculture could have approached such material slightly differently here. When preparing a cut in consumption or the purpose of resources within the agricultural budget, I argued with arguments that subsidisation or assistance to the more difficult-to-harvesting environments is too small for us because so-called one part of Slovenia will grow completely in 15 years. But this environment will heal, these Polkhograsian dolomites, this Notranska, Crassus. There's no problem planting a vineyard in Crassus today. And people do that, thank God. But no one cuts any more. All the baskets are healed and bushes are formed. So something like this, I say from this point of view, is at least as I see it, a bit irresponsible. And I claim to accept such an amendment, I think it's bad. I can't support him by any means, because I know what's going on within these large environments that have difficult production conditions. If we are already comparing refunds per hectare of crops under favourable conditions or grass under these difficult conditions, there is an uncomparable great distance. In Switzerland, Austria, something like that doesn't even happen to be "scrambled". And we are reducing these small funds now that the interest of people to process these steep hills in Tolminska, in Polkhograjska, in Notranjska and even in the species Haloz, and so on, which is not just vineyards, will be so much smaller. That's why I don't think we should support something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. To arrange a review of the applications for debate and replica: a colleague of Rokavec, colleague Majnikov and colleague Pucka asked for the floor. Did you want a replica, Comrade Pucko? For the replica. Well, then you're on the list where colleague Ašič, colleague Vizjak and you are. Replics first. Comrade Auschwitz, you have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I wanted to explain some things to my colleague Sok earlier, but Mr Brenčič raised me up with his debate. If this amendment is written irresponsibly, then I think that its debate is also irresponsible because it does not know this area at all. I don't even think he knows the budget very well because he was talking about "so low the resources that are earmarked for these areas". Slovenian Eco 0 programme has 12 billion tolars and Eco 1 programme has 4 billion tolars and Eco 2 and 3 have 2 billion tolars and restructuring and renovation of agricultural production have 2 billion tolars. If we knew those numbers, Mr. Brenčič, we wouldn't be able to speak like that. If we knew about winemaking, we wouldn't be able to speak like that. In fact, if we do not go into intensive renewal in the field of wine growing, then these vineyards will happen exactly what Mr Brenčič warns - they will grow and leave because there will be no stimulation, especially after we are in the European Union. And everything we can do in this area can be done until we enter the European Union. It'll be too late for that. Slovenian wine production is 100 million litres of wine and we export between 10 million and 15 million pieces of wine, and we also sometimes import up to 10 million litres of wine. It is said that we turn all this wine almost on the domestic market. I don't know why. We are going to export very hard because we are technologically lagging behind and because we also do not have the best sort choices. That is why this amendment has been written and is probably supported by all colleagues and colleagues who have joined it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The next one has a mag replica. Vizjak and his buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. My colleague Puck and I must have stopped by the replica because of Mr Brenčič's rather disrespectful comment on the Committee on Finance. On the Committee on Finance, where we spoke and supported this amendment, we supported it mainly because of an argument that was clearly put there. This argument, however, was that the matter was harmonised within the Ministry of Agriculture and that the government did not oppose it. Given that the Ministry of Agriculture knows how and by what means and that it is also responsible for the implementation of all these programmes and projects within this area, and if it agrees or is harmonised, of course, we have gladly supported such an idea, because the purpose is fine. That's why I don't want to listen to insults here at the expense of the Finance Board, if we don't know what we're doing, and if we're gonna do it, we should do it to others. It was explicitly said that somehow the matter was coordinated at the Ministry of Agriculture, which means that the profession gave it a green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, only the following would be added to what Comrade Vizjak has now said. The Committee on Finance was chaired by Vice-President Villa Trofenik for reasons not warranted by me at this meeting. As always, in this case the Committee has also taken a completely responsible decision for the reasons mentioned earlier by its colleague Vizjak. Therefore, I do not think there is any reason to believe that the responsibility of the committee in supporting this amendment has been lower than otherwise, especially since the Committee has made a great deal of effort in preparing all decisions to be taken in the National Assembly, given the timeframes which are very limited. I also saw no reason why the implementation of colleague Brenčič would be offensive. It's just a clarification. If there is anything else to be said, it may also be right to add a word to the chairman at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u144	A colleague of mags. Kramberger has procedural procedures. That's got a head start on the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. As the amendment's review does say that the government is not opposed, and colleague Vizjak has just said that on the Finance Committee itself the government has agreed, I would ask, Mr President, procedurally if, given that there are several colleagues and colleagues who have been reported for discussion, if you can give the floor to the Minister, the government's representatives to clear this matter up by the government. And then we'll go ahead with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u146	We will arrange this by asking if any of those on the list oppose the Minister of Mag. Booth got the word. [[No, no, ……]] Then you have your word. Mag. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. It must be made very clear that, as far as I am concerned, as a minister, or as our ministry, in such a context, of course, this matter has never been harmonised. However, it would be harmonised if, of course, an additional amount were allocated to the non-agricultural budget item, which of course was a basic idea. This needs to be made very clear. This alignment has never been in this context. I ask you not to support the amendment in such a form. I'll explain why. Simply because for the first time, the renewal of vineyards in 2001 and 2002 I apologize, of course it will be, and this will be under the heading Restructuring of Agriculture and Food. In particular, a prescription or demand for those who are interested and who were restoring vineyards in 2001 has already been made for this purpose. Interested parties who jointly show 617 hectares will be covered by an item that does not have a total of 2 billion but has a total of 7 billion 551 million as a whole of the so-called restructuring of agriculture and food. This means, of course, that this item is at least doubling due to Sapart assets compared to 2001. As for this item and the restoration of vineyards, I would add this. Between 1996 and 1998, between 600 and 750 hectares were renewed annually and between 300 and 330 hectares in 1999 and 2000, with payments in 2002, 617 hectares will be renewed. If this procedure is adopted from the budget and legal frameworks are allowed, the support for renewal in 2001 will also be paid in the 2002 budget. Then, of course, it will join the restoration of vineyards that will take place in 2002. Maybe I could add some more answers to your questions here. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have 24 thousand 198 hectares of vineyards per cadastral, and by register, that is, after what the producers have said themselves and entered the mandatory register, which is mandatory for manufacturers, only 15 thousand 131 hectares. This means that, of course, producers should be invited to declare their vineyards for God's sake, because if they do not report them, they will not exist in the legal order of the European Union, so they will have to cut them. Why aren't these applications yet? Here, of course, another issue needs to be presented. Does the logic of rebuilding vineyards make sense? The logic of the renewal of vineyards will always make sense, but it will make primary sense for a country that has already become a net wine exporter and has surpluses and which is faced with the fact that alcohol consumption from wine falls, of course, thank God, at the expense of quality wines. So the renewal of vineyards must go primarily towards a change of structure. This means that we will have smaller crops, more quality varieties and, more importantly, higher prices as well. Otherwise, prices will be as determined by the supply and demand on the market. And many in Slovenia will be low prices, so it makes sense to rebuild. But the restoration must be in the same way as the interest expressed. The interest was expressed here. Why is it very important not to support this amendment? Because we have three forms of payments or two forms of payments within the framework of the Agricultural Environment Programme. One form of payment is support for areas with limited factors, such as mountain, mountain, karst, marsh world. The second set consists of so-called integrated, ecological, agricultural production or extensification payments and specific farming conditions. Therefore, if this amendment were supported, in this case 80 per cent of agricultural producers in the Republic of Slovenia would be entitled to apply for EKO-1 payments, these are payments to which the funds are to be reduced in 2002, not only in real terms, but also nominally lower payments per hectare. Everyone in Slovenia receives the so-called EKO-0 payments. These are payments made from market arrangements. Those who lie in restricted areas, that is good 80% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, are also entitled to an supplement called Eco 1 payment, which is supposed to be a compensation, because there nature does not give an opportunity for any intensive production and nature itself makes production difficult. This means that we are here as the Republic of Slovenia with a very clear objective: these payments must be increased until the entry into the European Union. Indeed, there is a ceiling for so-called Eco 1 payments, as well as for the agricultural environmental programme in its entirety, through which payments should not be made. Currently, the Republic of Slovenia had these payments in the summer of 2001 at the level of a low 30% of the European Union's payments allowed; next year we would like to raise them to about 42.43%. Why does that matter? As of the date of entry into the European Union, the principle of co-financing will arise here - as much as the Republic of Slovenia adds the budget of the European Union through its budget. Of course, it must be made very clear that the European Union does not finance the renewal of vineyards, does not prevent them from being allowed to be restored, but also, of course, commands the compulsory reduction of hectares of vineyards within the framework of market regulation. I propose that this amendment should not be supported, because if it were supported, this would therefore be a completely unconceptual act in the Republic of Slovenia, because the basic direction of support is more difficult for farming and the agricultural environmental programme, which aims at a more sonar form of farming, we consider in the Republic of Slovenia the basic objective of agriculture of the future, which is also meant by the various phenomena of disease in the world. Here the Republic of Slovenia also sees its perhaps one rare, if not even the only market opportunity in an extremely large European market. However, I promise that all applicants for the renewal of vineyards in 2001 will receive payment as soon as the legal order permits this after the adoption of the budget, and that 2002 will also be as the following years, when we will also support the co-financing of the renewal of vineyards and other permanent plants, in particular with the aim of improving the structure, improving the range and thus allowing producers to achieve a higher price in the future. There is also an agreement and my promise that, under this item, the restructuring of agriculture and food, which is a total of 7.5 billion and more, within the framework of legal options and what the government is allowed to do, as well as in 2002 if necessary, such an agreement I have already proposed to my colleague today and is also in line with the Ministry of Finance - possibly from other items that are less problematic, any addition to the need for renewal of vineyards and permanent plants, if a real need arises. I was a little longer, but I wanted to shed some light on this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u148	The budgetary discussions are, of course, the most extensive in all parliaments, they are difficult to limit; even now, this item is the case. My colleague Rokavec first asked for a word, followed by his colleague Majnikov. I ask all those who perform to limit themselves, if possible. Please, Comrade Rokavec, would you like a word? Comrade Brenčič, the replica, then Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Not as many replicas as I owe to those members of the Finance Board who understood my performance or my thinking as an offensive, sincere apology. Far from wanting something like that. I just wanted to say that the content of this amendment is such that if the agricultural committee were to be defined to this content, depending on its membership structure, depending on its professionality, it would probably have made a different decision. This has also been confirmed by the Minister's presentation, with full arguments, by my reasoning. And once again, I'm really sorry if anyone understood that. Far from underestimating the decision-making of the committee, even if, after all, the Committee on Finance has decided on such assumptions that only membership has not even deepened into content as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Comrade Rokavec, would you like another word? You have the floor behind him, colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Apparently, someone played a double role in this amendment. In fact, it appears that the text says "government doesn't oppose." However, we have just heard the Minister say clearly that the government is expressly opposed to this amendment. So someone's been misleading the finance committee with this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u152	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u153	I think that, in fact, it has already been said today, in the future, it is necessary to define clearly the role of the competent committees in adopting the budget in order to express themselves. We see what problems may arise, especially in the case of the adoption of a budget, where the Finance Committee, of course, decides on all decisions and government proposals. But so much at the beginning. In fact, this proposal amounts to the collection of 12.5% of all funds in the so-called environmental programme of the ECO 1 programme, which mainly seeks to be social adjustments in agriculture for those areas which are actually areas with more difficult farming conditions. We have just heard from the Minister, who made it clear: "Only 30% of the funds at this time from what is allowed can afford the current budget." At this level, I think it is necessary for Parliament to be aware of the situation we are in and with which traveller we will enter the European Union in two years or at the latest two years from now. With a very low journey to obtain co-financing from the European Union. Any tolar taken in this area means an additional step towards a negative structural change in the Slovenian landscape. And then we can do that with that amendment that we supported earlier. If we have a cultivated and populated landscape, then it will also be touristic and thus economically interesting, our country is more interesting than it will be if, of course, it is in those segments where farming conditions will no longer be allowed and these areas will grow. We have recently witnessed the extremely intense growth of agricultural areas. I think it would be irresponsible of Parliament to accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Two requests for clarification, regarding your position, Comrade Rokavec. First Minister Booth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Just so we're clear. It's probably a little bit of a misunderstanding in this story on the Finance Committee. I wasn't on that board. So, of course, legally, formally, it was said that the government did not object. As Minister, I object, and I believe that the government would also oppose this if there were no obvious misunderstandings here. I wouldn't take this thing so much for tragic either. I, for example, understood that a fellow or a member who is a candidate, the first-signatory by a group of Members, would kindly like to grant the renewal of vineyards more money, which would be extremely commendable. But of course we would understand all of this from an item in another part where perhaps the state budget could be slightly less lacking in its support. That would, of course, be something to have all the support of me as a minister and a lot of others. I wanted to make an explanation, but I would just suggest that I tried to make the arguments as correctly as possible, but why this redeployment would not be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u156	My friend, you want a replica or, no. Thank you very much. Then the Secretary of State asked for the floor, Mag. Stonewall. Do you want another word or not? Yes, you do. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Thank you. Just one sentence because I was on the Finance Committee as a representative of the government. There it was explicitly said that the amendment with the Minister of Agriculture was coordinated and therefore the government did not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u158	Now I give my word to my colleague Majnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Slovenia, like the countries of the European Union, Italy, Portugal, Spain, France, can be considered as wine-growing countries. According to the physical volume of agricultural production, it represents 9 per cent of the total production of wine. After the old cadastres we had 25,000 hectares of vineyards in Slovenia, according to current data we have only 15 thousand more and if the vineyards are afraid that the negotiating grounds for Europe will be too low if we operate with statistics of 15,000 hectares, their fear is probably justified. In the production of grapes and wine, 1,060 people are employed in the Republic of Slovenia. The production of grapes and wines, according to the register of growers and wines, is still carried out by 21 000 479 farms, farms. According to statistics, however, 41% of all farms have vineyards. In this fall of planted hectares with vineyards, it is important to note that the areas that the Ministry of Agriculture places in support of ECO 1 programmes are growing. I am talking about the areas of Haloz, the Slovenian Mountains, where any other agricultural production is virtually disabled and because Haloz is underinvested in the renovation of vineyards, they are growing. Although we know forested Haloses, but Halose will only be forested, they will no longer be wine-growing if we behave machetely and have one-year or two-year delays in supporting the country to rebuild vineyards. Most of the vineyards in Slovenia are privately owned. 85% of the vineyards are owned by farms, which means that most grapes were produced in the private sector. If I also say that only 20% of the crops in vineyards owned by wine-growing wine-growing companies are mainly in this direction, as also introduced by the poultry cellar, that it had previously leased its permanent crops to its co-workers, then this percentage is still so different. I would also say that the production of wine in Slovenia, as colleague Ašić said, is indeed 1 million hectolitres. In 1999, farmers produced 618,601 hectolitres and 311,399, which are larger commercial cellars, including larger private cellars. In the fear of interfering with the EKO 1 programme, I do not see any controversy if, in areas that are unfit for any other production, funds are also allocated for the renewal of vineyards because they are the same areas with more difficult production conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u160	To explain the applications. Minister Booth and Mag. Kramberger wanted to replicate the performance by the secretary of state and colleague Sok to colleague Majnikov. Please, these replicas are as short as possible. There's a few more reports. I think it is necessary, of course, to give a word to everyone, but I would kindly ask everyone to take into account that we have others besides this topic and that they can all probably get such dimensions of the debate. First Minister Booth, then Mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm going to say it very directly. I'm not going to bend anything. This amendment in this form has not been aligned with me. If he wasn't with me, he couldn't be with the Ministry. As for the second, because of the renewal of vineyards there will be no more hectares in the register - in the register of hectares it is not because the vineyards do not register them there. In Slovenia there is still 60% of the grey market, this needs to be said clearly and out loud, and the vineyards that exist must be registered in the register. Anyone who does not report them will have no opportunity to restore even one square metre during the time of Slovenia's membership in the European Union. If there is not at least the same support as last year - in my own words, higher support - for restricted areas, all farmers in Haloza will also have smaller payments. The vineyards will also be included in Eco 1 payments next year. And the means to rebuild vineyards, I repeat, will be in place, all 616 hectares of declared renewal will be financed, as will the funding of those who will follow. However, if the State, the Republic of Slovenia, did not pay for the 2000 budget in 2000, this is, of course, a general question to be asked. Apparently, there was a reallocation in 2001 due to the inefficiencies of the state budget at some point, although all commitments were met in time and payments could be made at the expense of the budget in 2000.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u162	We have, at least according to my list, five requests for explanations, for replicas. We'll do it in a row. Mag. Kramberger, first you have the word, then Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to provide an exclusive explanation or I would like to apologize somehow to the Secretary of State, Mrs Kamnarjevo. In fact, this is where I obtained a magnetogram, where it says exactly - when my colleague Janc explained this amendment, he said: "I would like to point out that this is exclusively about the reallocation of funds within the Ministry of Agriculture, with the item intended to reform agriculture and food, but it is about rebuilding vineyards before Slovenia enters the European Union. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the framework for planted areas should not be substantially altered. This measure is therefore necessary in our view in 2002 and 2003." Now this sentence: "This amendment is also harmonised between the Members and the Minister of Agriculture, so I would ask you to support it." Then the vice-president who chaired the meeting asked for the opinion and position of the government, and then Mrs Kamnareva did not object, but she was obviously misled. Now we have a clear position, and there was so much to explain, so please, if we decide on this amendment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u164	Good. My colleague Sok asked for the floor, and I would like to respond to the views of my colleague Majnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u165	Thank you. There's something I have to say. This is exactly what I wanted to warn you that if you were to reduce Eco 1, because most of the vineyards in the areas with heavy production, then it is said, on the one hand they would give something and on the other hand they would take it. But the minister has already said that without defending him in these matters, but I would like to point out something else. I think and I think it's illogical, and I'm sure these vineyard areas are always operated on by hectares. My question was earlier in this direction, how much grapes we produce and how much wine. It would be more logical to start operating once with the number of vines, because the number of hectares is not merodic at all. Look. If you have vineyards on the terrace system, you can have thousands of vines on one hectare of the terrace system, but if you have vertical training, you can have five or six thousand vines on one hectare. It is illogical and inappropriate to explain that we had, what I know, then 25 thousand hectares when we had old vineyards - I know because I live, I come from this area, I also have a vineyard, I also know how the vineyard is being processed, how much you have to invest in it and what you end up getting. 30 years ago, we had over 100,000 cows, and today we have 150,000 cows, and we don't know how many times more milk than we did then. This would also allow those negotiating in the European Union to negotiate at these points: on the quantities produced, but not on the hectares of the vine. For there was a period when there was a very modern place, almost even on a purely laid surface, to make terraces and to go hectares and hectares of these surfaces to nothing because there were still less than 800 vines on one hectare. I very much thank you, Mrs Majnikova, for the information you have received in your area and which they have given you. Once again, I want to say that the hectares tell me nothing; they tell me: the number of vines and the quantities produced. And once again I warn you - this year came the first time, there were bad crops, but what was done this year with vineyards in our area, this is I know, you will answer me: because the price is set by the cooperative. [[...]] That is true, but the country has to regulate matters in this way so that somewhere, I would say, the supply and demand is balanced so that the offer is not enormous, because then people will shrink vineyards and then the country will waste state resources senselessly. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm talking about, Mr. Minister. I didn't get it from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Three more are on the list, first of all, Comrade Malovre. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm not going to support this amendment myself, but I'd like to replicate it to my colleague. The first is because it was not coordinated with the Ministry; the second is because it was misleading the vineyards. Wine growers, because we have enough wine for our own needs to export wine, but we are not such a winegrower as to pay anything to invest in this branch of production. Third, which is: if this amendment were to be aimed at what we lack - let it be - because in agriculture we only have too much poultry, some small beef, some small meat - for one street in Moscow - we import a lot; we import olives, we import sugar, we import vegetables. If you are interested, we import about 90% of vegetables in Slovenia. If I had an amendment to speed up the production of vegetables, then I could support it. While this amendment is breaking the relationship that has already been somehow agreed in the Ministry, I also ask all of you to make this amendment precisely because of this - non-compliance - and because it is misleading farmers who would so benefit the land in inappropriate positions, just to get something for free, therefore this amendment is not to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u168	Thank you, Comrade Malvore. My friend Brenčič, my colleague Ašić, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. After my colleague Majnikov's performance, I am fully aware of where the roots are or where those arguments were that they favoured the birth of such an amendment. That's all I'd say. You know, there's always been vineyards in Haloza, and there's been baskets. People also sorted the change, and there was livestock farming, and so on. It germinates is the forest - not where the vineyards were; very little. It germinates where the baskets were. You know, we don't just have Haloz, Mrs. Majnikov. Even the bishoply hill, the whole of the Polkhograean dolomite, the whole of Notranska lives only on these grasses. There's no vine there, you know, and there's not much fruit. And that's what we're taking now is that healthy subsidy that would make them keep not only the inhabited land, but the treated land, because it's going to heal. The hazelnuts will grow where it no longer croaks. The vineyards are more or less where they've been, I've been around Haloza well, and I know them. This amendment is very local. Well, not just that. I think it's going somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. My friend Azhishch has a word first. Please. So, I know you're applying for replicas. However, if we want to have a clear timetable, I can do nothing but give them in order. So I ask you, colleague Majnikov, for you will be right behind your colleague Auschwitz to suffer so much. Comrade Auschwitz and behind you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u171	I promise I'll call you one last time. I will also not replicate anymore, because we are really coming to a strange debate and strange knowledge of wine-growing areas in Slovenia, which I hear are localistic, although we have three wine-growing countries in Slovenia: Podravski, Posavski and Primorski wine-growing region, with subterfuges and so on. If this is localistic, it is easy to look at the one who really knows nothing - about winemaking - really knows nothing. Grapes grow with apricots, mostly acacia. That's something to look at. But I'm not going to do that again. I would like to explain to the minister who in doubt put some fellow Members around here when he said, "Well, you see, it's going to be paid." Now I would like a very clear answer: do you suppose that in addition to the debt incurred in 2001 - because nothing has yet been paid for the reconstruction and is expected to be paid out of the budget, such as we will accept, without an amendment - in 2002 money for the reconstruction in 2002 is yet to be provided? For the claim we have made with this amendment is that it will have a very fatal impact for one year and that it will be a huge deficit, at least 500 restored ha, if we always endure this deficit. If a renewal is paid in 2003 for 2002, 2004 and so on and so on. For that, please explain. In fact, when we wrote this amendment, we were aware that there might be a problem, but look, ZIPRO Article 9, Article 10, only the Ministry can transfer 10 per cent from the sub-programme to the sub-programme, with the government's permission and the government's decision, and 20 per cent. In order to allow this amendment to be adopted, the gap created by the ZIPRA covers or, of course, to say that under the ZIPRA option, the renewal will be paid after 2001 and also taken care of in 2002. This is what I want to hear here today, in this Chamber, because you yourself, when you opposed the amendment, have just told a lot of truths about wine growing and the status of wine growing, which supports this amendment or that we are not talking about an amendment that supports the need for a speedy recovery. And this reconstruction is actually - Mr Sok is talking about vines, right. The number of arable hectares should be increased, yield to the vine reduced and quality increased. These are things that are known. But these rules will be prescribed by you when you call for renewals and also say that the country is likely to finance only typical wine growing sites. Of course, it is necessary to know that these 25,000 hectares of vineyards, which have been and which have now been, say, air recordings show that this is true, the richness of Slovenia, which speaks of the need to do something on these surfaces. And that these are vineyard areas, where there is generally no, where the best yield can only be vineyarding. We probably agree, and that's why we wrote it. And of course, if at least this debate has raised attention to this area somewhere, and if I have understood you correctly that we will also provide funding for 2002 in the coming year, then that is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u172	My colleague Majnikova and you are followed by Minister Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I would like to tell my colleague Brenčič that I am very proud of the environment where I come from, and these are Haloze. I'm also proud of my roots - Prekmurje. There are vineyards all over the place. And if in Haloza another agricultural production as a vineyard is not possible because of the position itself, because of the terrain, it is the truth that someone who lives on the plain or in Gorenjska is hard to accept. It is not grown in Gorenjska, but is grown in Podravska Rayon and Pomurje. I don't want to cause too many replicas. You will have to leave proven wine-growing positions in Slovenia to be identified by experts. Comrade Malover, you said we have too much wine in Slovenia. I would like to tell you that in Slovenia there is not enough wine, especially quality wine, of quality wine. What the minister warned us was quite a gray economy, which is the sale of table open wine from farms, which is between 50 and 60 percent. And 40 percent is quality wine. And in our bird basement we had a slogan, "Drink some, drink some." And I guess that's what we should be told to keep. I would like to say that there are statistics in Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u174	Allow me to interrupt you, colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u175	In Slovenia, wine consumption per capita is 40 litres, in Luxembourg, in Portugal and in Italy and in France is more than 60 litres. So we cannot even count among the drunken nations, but I think you will have to allow me this right to fight for the environment from which I come, and in Haloza there is really almost no way to go to those hilly slopes of agriculture other than wine growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u176	I have already warned, probably not as the only president in the budget debate, that it is very difficult in this debate to say that there is a point beyond this debate. But I think that's what's happening now. I've just seen three hands for replicas right here. I'm asking, does anyone insist on giving the replica? My friend Brenčič. I suggest Minister Booth is in the end. Comrade Brenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u177	My colleague Majnikov, I didn't say a word about Gorenjska. But I told you that the purpose of this item, which you're taking 50 million, 500 million, is also intended for those environments, you know where they can't stop eating because the vine pays more. No - they don't have anything but grass. I will give you completely, I would say, all superlatives to fight for your environment, but you know, there are other environments in Slovenia that have no other alternatives than these. This grass grows in Tolminska and in Polhograjska and in Škofjeloška and in the whole Notranjska i.e. Therefore, I say that this approach is locally oriented, as you have presented it and you cannot replace it with an argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u178	Can this debate conclude with the performance of Minister Booth? Try this, Minister Booth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u180	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u181	As Minister, I am responsible for both the winegrowers and those living in restricted areas. And I come from Styria winemaking and live in an innocent and forested place, and therefore another beautiful pond, so I am completely unburdened and I am trying to really explain that there is a need to find some kind of relationship between one and the other and the third needs. Here I am just giving an explanation to Mr Ašić - as I have said before: In 2000, the renewal was carried out and in 2000 it was not paid at the expense of the budget in 2000, although all the documents were delivered in a timely manner, so the priorities of other payments in the country clearly indicated that the commitment had been transferred in 2001 and, therefore, due to the under-availability of the money available to the State of the Republic of Slovenia during a period of time, this burden of obligation from 2000 paid, unfortunately, in the burden of 2001; as in many other items in this budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, of course, there was suddenly a situation where in 2001 it was not possible to make and sign off on the renewal of vineyards and also financially cover them, because the money in the budget was spent on the burden of liabilities in 2000. Then we found an agreement and in the framework of the government and in the framework of legal options, we decided to demand a so-called provision. On the basis of this demand or prescription we have received, as has already been said, 617 hectares of renewal of vineyards. Here I add that the renewal of vineyards is reasonable and necessary and justified in the context, as someone has mentioned today: the increase of vines per hectare with the clear objective of changing the range and the ever smaller crop per vine, thereby increasing the quality, raising the price, indirectly reducing the surpluses of grapes and wines which are not competitive on the market, as the Republic of Slovenia must see as a competitive market in the situation of the European Union. When the market is more than 100 million consumers and there will be limits to imports of strong quantities of wine from Spain, Portugal, France, Greece, from anywhere, completely open and the limit will not be; hence, only high quality and higher price will be available for our wine. The course of restoration of vineyards goes this way. Thus, payments for the renewal of vineyards in 2001 will be made immediately after the adoption of the budget and the relevant documents. Immediately after the agreement, we will make a demand for the renewal of vineyards in 2002, which takes at least so long as we know how many they will actually rebuild. And in agreement and in our proposal and in my opinion, under the heading Restructuring of Agriculture and Food, which amounts to 7.5 billion, by deducting Sapard, we will allocate a certain part of the funds from where possible to partially cover this restoration already in 2002. To this end we will not burden other groups of items, this is the Slovenian agri-environment programme. This commitment and promise and decision exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u182	Good. There is a debate ahead of us and a decision on the Supplement under number 1 in the sub-programme Restructuring of Agriculture and Food. I see two suggestions, first he raised his hand to my colleague Pukšič. Procedurally, my friend Pukšič? No, no, no. Do you then have a procedural, Comrade Podobnik? Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would ask that you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, allow our Group a 30-minute recess before deciding on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u184	How much?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u185	We suggest 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u186	We'll continue the meeting at 4:30 p.m. The debate is closed. We've moved on to a decision. I'm just asking, buddy Pukšič, what did you want? Explain? Explain the voice. That's what you'll do after your break. We'll continue the meeting at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u187	Please, let's first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please, if we can see that the cards are in the right place and we can find out where they are. Press the quorum, please. It is more than obvious that there are more of us in the hall and that some have failed to press. So we repeat the conclusion, another time. Please, let's press the quorum. 56 Members and Members are present. I find that we are final and that we can proceed. I give my word to Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the parliamentary group, we decided that we would vote against the amendment tabled by a group of Members with our first-signed colleague, Ašić, in full. On the basis of the debate on this amendment and also on the basis of the transcript of the two meetings [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u189	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u190	the Committee on Budget and Public Finance is also clear that, unfortunately, the Committee has been misled on this issue. [[...]] In our parliamentary group, we also regret that, in this way, some of our fellow Members wanted to exercise their interest. The debate, however, has clearly demonstrated the position of the government here as well, and we expect a large majority of fellow Members and colleagues to vote in such a way that they do not support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u191	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I think it would be right that before we vote, someone on behalf of the government, who, of course, has these powers, would say whether the definition of the government doesn't still oppose whether it is a definition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u193	There is no explanation for the vote, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, the government now has no say but to explain the vote of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u194	This decision was not during the discussion because only the Minister of Agriculture was very exact and clearly stated that he opposed it because, of course, it was not harmonised at the Ministry. And given the fact that the vineyards were planted and, of course, I know them very well; given that last year was not paid for about 600 hectares of compensation because they were planted; and given that this year it was necessary - and thus every year until 1 September - to register a refund in the vineyards or to regenerate them or to restore them, and that the data contained some 400 hectares; and, given that there was insufficient resources in this budget line to cover the fall from the year '1991, because it was the reason for the Ministry of Finance not to do so, or because of the austerity measures, there were insufficient resources in this area and that the Minister ensures that it is also possible that these areas would have been more for wine growing, to make any reallocations. Of course, I think that on the other hand, you would take one farmer or something like that, as it's supposed to say: you would take it from the left and put it in your right pocket. And of course that's not productive. After all this, because there has been fraud on the committee or on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and because, of course, it is incorrectly stated that the government does not oppose it, I will not support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We are therefore voting on two amendments. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 67 present, 15 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 72 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Rural Development. There's an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since there is no debate, I am concluding the debate and moving to a vote on the amendment, i.e. one amendment to the sub-programme Rural Development. Let's vote, please. Of the 67 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of the operation of services and public institutions. We have an amendment here. First-signed mag. Andrej Vizjak. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u196	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask your support for this amendment. I want to spend 10 million dollars, along with your help, on animal asylum. Unfortunately, the animal law was rejected days ago and I would be very pleased if we could help to finance at least some of the existing asylums for animals in the Republic of Slovenia, which are financed more or less by voluntary contributions. I would therefore ask that, given that the public's response after the rejection of the Animal Protection Act was extremely large a day ago, and also because many of you have come to give special support after the vote, please do so now and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u197	Thank you. Who else wants a word? For a moment, Mr Minister, let's see if anyone else is among the Members and Members who want a word. None more than Members and Members. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I just want to explain that the Ministry already has a planned or government, I apologize, the item Co-financing of asylum for animals, namely item 2253 of the amount of 31 million 943 thousand. The planned co-financing of asylums is based on the invitation to tender 50% of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, 50% of the municipalities in which the asylum is located.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Can we close this debate at this point or this amendment? Yeah. We conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme of Action for Services and Public Institutions. Wait, something's up. I'm asking a little colleague in our technical service to see what happened. [[...]] Something's wrong with the voicemail and now it's gonna be. [[...]] Let's vote, please! Of the 70 present, 21 Members and Members voted in favour. 47 were against it. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Transport, sub-programme of Means for the Construction of Motorways. First signed at the amendment is mag. Andrej Vizjak. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme of the Road Construction Fund. We're voting, please. Of the 72 present, 22 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are with the user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Subprogramme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Here we have two amendments: an amendment where the first signed mag is. Andrej Vizjak. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain a little bit about the second amendment relating to the G-2 motorway connection, which means roads leading from the border crossing of Petrina via Kočev, Ribnica to Škofljica. The fact is that the construction of the highway cross makes major changes, it is said that in the area where roads are being built, new industrial zones are opening up, while in the areas covered by these roads, there is absolutely no possibility of such development, although the areas that we could develop also have. I believe that such an area as these 1,000 square kilometres in this southern region should not be fully regulated, but at least allow this road to be connected in some appropriate way to the highway cross and open up or increase accessibility to these areas or to that location. After all, this is also the road or the shortest link through Slovenia to the sea, and I think it would be appropriate to open this corridor and allow for tourist activities as well as other activities. We have proposed or proposed only 20 million tolars, which is essentially for this part of the study, so that in this first part the possibility of joining this road on a motorway ring, and in the following years, work on this work may be more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I am closing the debate on the amendments and moving on to the vote. We will first vote on the first amendment under number one in the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 67 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are with the user Ministry of Environment and Space, Subprogramme Planning, Protection and Water Management. We have an amendment here. The Group of Members proposes this amendment, the first-signed Dr Andrej Bajuk. Who wants a word on this? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was before I saw the Minister for Environment and Space join us, mag. Digger, I was very excited and I thought we could discuss this matter with him as a competent minister, but apparently the minister had some other tasks and duties and came to look at us for a moment. So let me explain this amendment. It is essentially the continuation of the work started last year and also the promises made by it that this pressing problem will also be adequately resolved in its next mandate. But when we look at this year's 2002 budget, we can see that the funds that would have been intended to solve the problems accumulated in the area of protection and water regulation are even falling in comparison to 2001, almost by half. With this amendment we would like to provide certain funds for the arrangement said Dravinje, Dravinje watercourse in the area of the municipalities of Majšperk, Videm and Makola or the local community of Makola. This is the area of the highly demographically endangered area in Slovenia, the Haloz area. In the past, certain regulations of the Dravinja watercourse have already been carried out in the lower part of the Dravinja river, but not in its upper flow, and of course the Dravinja river is practically two times a year - up to three times in this area. Although it was not because of the drought this year, the previous years were usually two to three floods. The damage to the already impoverished area of Haloz is considerable. There are practically damage to the entire economy, both on infrastructure and on all other economic operators, and the desire was to continue to rehabilitate and regulate this watercourse. I don't know if anyone else is replacing the Ministry of Environment and Space here now, if they can say that these funds are provided under another programme, or if I would ask you to support this amendment, especially because, in the framework of coordination, the funds should be increased to the account of the administration of the Ministry of Information Society. This is about the fact that the government, as such and also in the coalition contract, is written down by the anti-biocratic programme and, of course, it is so illogical that we do not actually implement this anti-biocratic programme, in such a way as to reduce red tape funds rather than increase them, as this draft budget increases by almost 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u203	As far as I can tell that Minister Kopač is not here, there is also none of the State secretaries from the environment and space, which is, of course, in terms of the rules of procedure and given the practice of adopting the budget, unusual or unacceptable. I will skip this amendment and wait for the Minister or at least the Secretary of State to come and answer the questions Mr Sok has asked; for we cannot discuss things without actually being able to hear the answer to individual proposals. So, we will return to the amendment that we have just begun the debate. Later, unless the amendment's proposer wishes otherwise, it is said that he has no interest in the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u204	Mr. Chairman! I would very much like the Minister to be in on this. So I'm asking you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Then we'll talk about it later. The following amendment is the user of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is a similar situation probably, so we will switch to another user, this is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Now, I have to ask you a few questions. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Good. Sub-programme Promoting job conservation and creation. Here we have an amendment, namely, the amendment is signed on behalf of the Group of Members, Dr Andrej Bajuk. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to explain this amendment in very short words. The unemployment of the disabled is rising rapidly. It is therefore imperative to increase the funds to a normal extent in order to ensure at least the legal right to professional rehabilitation. I have already raised this question under the question of the government or the Ministry. However, it is also likely that a mistake has been made in the government’s view that this volume of funds has been unduly cheap. I think that this proposal is also in line with the government's memorandum, where more is supposed to be active measures to reduce unemployment. After all, I see here that the government does not oppose this amendment because it means that it is consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Who wants a word about this amendment? [[No one else.]] I am closing the debate on this amendment and moving on to the vote. For those of you who later joined us, we are on page 15, the user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Sub-programme of the Job Conservation and Opening Initiative - the first amendment and we are voting on it. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 23 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment to the same user is for the programme of veteran organisations. There are two amendments. The first is proposed by a group of Members with Mr Bajuk as the first to be signed, and the second by a group of Members with the first to be signed by Mr Visiak. I am opening a debate on this sub-programme, on these amendments in this sub-programme. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on these two amendments. Who wants a word? Yeah, now it's just an explanation of the voice. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll explain my voice. The amendment concerning the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs seeks to normalise the situation concerning the provision of funds to veteran organisations. When we look at the structure of veteran organisations, we see that it's not properly installed. All those veteran organisations following from the Continuity Framework have very large funds, although they also have funds in other areas. However, no funds have been provided for the New Slovenian Commitment. One that seeks to normalise Slovenia's space as far as history is concerned. I think it would be worth it if this organisation, like others, were provided with adequate means to carry out the necessary mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u209	Thank you. You didn't tell me how you were going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u210	I will vote, of course, normally 'in favour', which is logical after the explanation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote now? So we are voting on the first amendment to the programme of veteran organisations. Of the 65 present, 19 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to the Programme of Veteran Organisations sub-programme. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 18 Members and Members voted against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Sub-programme of Fellowships, Group of Members, first-signed Mr Diaci. Who wants a word? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I propose an amendment in which I would like, in the context of the increase in grant funding, to create a new item for the Local Community Fellowship Funds, co-financing. Funds shall be earmarked for the co-financing of local community scholarship funds. The decline in staff scholarships is a well-known fact, the main cause of which is the economic crisis in the early 1990s. Despite the calming and improving economic situation in the late 1990s, the trend in the area of human resources scholarships has not stopped. It is therefore essential that a new, combined system of scholarships be established with the assistance of the State. With the participation of state budget funds, the State should promote the establishment and functioning of local scholarship funds whose founders or co-founders are local communities and local economies. The financing of local scholarship funds would therefore be three-partite: from the local community budget, the local economy and the country should also encourage this through their own resources. The quality of the local scholarship funds can develop and promote local human resources potential, which is the basis for the economic development of local communities. In addition, we can successfully prevent the so-called "brain drain" from the less developed local communities and encourage the economy to re-establish a quality scholarship policy. This would not only be another state social measure, but also aid to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 26 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the last amendment in this programme, the sub-programme Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. We're on page 17 and 18, where we have two amendments, as you can see. At the first, Mr Vnučec and Mr Vizjak are the proposer on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a new item for the transport of disabled students. Students with disabilities cannot use public means of transport. To this end, they organized themselves into the Association of Disabled Slovenian Students on a voluntary basis and with their own contributions, contributions from parents and some sponsors were able to obtain two adapted vans with which, together with soldiers serving the civil service - they have three - they organize transports of 30 disabled students who cannot use public transportation equipment. In view of the minimum resources that are intended to introduce this new programme, I think there should be no major obstacles to allow young people with disabilities to make it easier to decide on their studies and thus solve the problem that we have already had in one of the amendments, namely the problem of employment of persons with disabilities. This would also solve the organisational problems that this society is facing now, since they do not have any regular employees. This money would be intended for the purchase of another, additional van, so that the beneficiaries and this address would be all disabled students at all three university centres, both in Maribor, Ljubljana and Koper. Dear Members and Members! I believe that we have already had many different actions, both with the title All Different, All Equal, Then with equal opportunities and with the adoption of this amendment, I think we will consolidate all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would explain only the other amendments, very briefly. In fact, it is the construction of accommodation units in the municipality of Ribnica. On 26 March this year, we received a decision from the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which somehow requires us to approach the development of an investment programme in this area. However, in the course of the budget review, we have found that this item is not in place, and we therefore propose that funds be redeployed within the Ministry and that minimum funds be provided for the continuation of the project. This is therefore the day-to-day protection of disabled persons from the area of the administrative units Ribnica and Kočevje, which is the decision of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Please. Mr. Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u218	I would ask the government with what arguments it rejected the amendment of the Youth Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u219	What amendment are you talking about now?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u220	About the last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u221	But the train's already taken off on the last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u222	One, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u223	Look, now you're talking about who was tied up on scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u224	We haven't voted on him yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u225	Or about transportation?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u226	It's about transportation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u227	You have to be clear, so I'm asking you which one. You said about the last one. We voted on the last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u228	Yeah, yeah, about transportation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u229	People with disabilities. That's all in the debate. Please, someone else. No one else, then I ask the representative of the government, the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs for an answer. State Secretary, perhaps?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u230	Yes, given that there are two programmes within social protection and that there were transfers in the first case from the second ministry, where, as a rule or from other activities where transfers were not normally carried out, it is for this reason that the amendment was not supported by the Government. So most of these amendments were not supported. In the second case, when it comes to a decision given by the Ministry, I must say that if it was a decision, it would probably be necessary to verify - it is probably not a failure to implement the decision, because if it was a decision, this means that the funds are provided within the items.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u231	Mr. Naughty. If I understand, you've raised your hand. If you'll excuse me, please, Madam Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u232	I absolutely cannot agree with this bureaucratic attitude of the government, because if it is one matter on which we all agree that it should be voted on, this bureaucratic argument does not apply; but the government, which has a review of the whole, could also demonstrate one piece of good faith and find such a solution that we could vote peacefully here, not to translate it from one ministry to another. And Fiat justitia et pereat mundus. In this way, the government is indeed going to be liberalised, but as a representative of a party that supports the government, I cannot bear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Jakič, then Mr. Tanko, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u234	I will now take this opportunity and, of course, explain my voice. I have to say, I wasn't happy with the answer. Of course, I understand this embarrassment that it is problematic from the perspective of the budget preparer, of course then to confirm the positive, to give the green light to be transferred from one ministry or from one user to another. Personally I must say that I have been doing a number of years since I have been sitting in this National Assembly - and before that in the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia - in some way on my liver that with my left hand I can - of course, as someone has already talked about shoveling and "chafing" today, we are "chafing" with billions, when the question is a few million, in this case 8 million dollars, there is a huge problem of channelling resources from one source to another. I understand the principle, but in this particular case, I will probably also vote in favour of the amendment of the first-signed Member of Parliament, and of course support that this segment gets eight - once again, eight - ordinary eight million tolars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I would only point out to the representative of the Ministry that Decision No 370.01.044/96-19 and after verification of these funds we have proposed [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] are not provided in the budget. [[...]] So this project is not supported in implementation. But it's even less money, for an even more lousy 5 million tolars. I think it would be right that if the Ministry had already issued a decision to continue the programme, at least in a material way, that minimum would be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I also find the idea extraordinary, and I must commend it and thank you that young people are truly representatives of their electoral base. It's a shame about the government. Eight million dollars is an amendment, as much as a government-bought fan costs. We're bargaining for one fan from the plane. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This National Assembly shall have all the arguments and absolute power to approve and accept this amendment. It would be fair for those with disabilities, students who are waiting for this poor valve, to be called a van, but with good conscience, we will also be satisfied with the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u239	Mr. Grandchild, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, again. I would like to thank all the Members who have expressed their public support. However, I am also surprised at the response of the government representative when the Minister personally assured me that he also personally supports this proposal. Otherwise, maybe it's not a happy choice where we're taking this money from. However, given the symbolic value, I don't think anything will be known to this consumer if we take these funds away from him and give them to this purpose, where it's also legal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u241	A little more attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u242	the basis. [[...]] We have it in section 3 of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, which reads: "Students with special needs who are included in study programmes in accordance with the law governing higher education are provided with the necessary additional resources in accordance with the statute of the higher education institution." In any case, I expect the Ministry to be able to obtain these funds, if not by this amendment, from other sources.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Can we get this over with? And Madam Secretary of State of Balohova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u244	Thank you. I would like to point out that my role is here to present the government's opinion. However, what is the opinion of the applicants, as previously said, is another issue. So once again, I would like to stress in particular the other amendments concerning, I will say, the reallocation within the Ministry, that, of course, this is, I will say, the matter that if there is a conclusion that the ministry within its lines will just make sure that the decision is implemented. While it is a question of where the reallocation is taking place between different departments, it is a matter of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u245	Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u246	I wanted you to finish because you've already begun to conclude - before the vote I wanted a word, but maybe I raised my hand too quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u247	Yeah, well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u248	I now announce when you conclude the debate on this amendment, on behalf of the group of 15 minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u249	Is that what you're predicting now? [[Yeah.]] So, who else wants to discuss this amendment or the two amendments? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. However, at this moment, we have Mr Anderlich's proposal for a 15-minute break. We'll continue at 5:27.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u250	Please note that there is a presence in the hall so that we can continue our work. We're picking up a presence at the hall. 47 Members and Members are present; we are in agreement. Please, Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u251	After the consultation, we agreed that these funds, which are not really large, could be redeployed within the student or schooling youth transport lines, and that is why we will not support this amendment. I propose that a government representative also confirm this. Otherwise, there would be no problem if the members of the Young Slovenia Party also made sure that some one million of the 541 million tolars they would receive from student services would be reassigned for any other purpose. I would advise, for this will be in the eyes of such a great deal of money, and then the whole congregation stands here for eight million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u252	Thank you. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 1, sub-programme Social Protection for Disabled Persons. We're voting, please. Of the 58 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 64 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this we have exhausted the amendments with the user of the Ministry of Labour and are now returning to the Ministry of Environment and Space. As you know, we interrupted this point a little while ago because there were no ministers or officials from the Ministry. Now I ask Minister Kopač if he can answer the questions Mr Sok has asked. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. But if you'll excuse me, could you refresh my memory for a moment because I wasn't present?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u254	That won't be possible because there was enough time to ask. Yes, then we go to the next ministry to have time to learn about this, namely, the user of the Ministry of Health, the sub-programme of Investment Investment in Hospitals. Here we have an amendment, first signed on behalf of the Group of Members, is Mr Bayuk. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. Excuse me! I'd like to ask you to monitor what's going on in the National Assembly. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Here our parliamentary group notes that in investment investments for hospitals and these institutions, the government has under-allocated these funds and we are, in particular, because we were representatives of the National Assembly also at the oncology institute and the paediatric clinic and we have seen that there are great needs. However, if money was sometimes spent needlessly from this ministry or from the budget, but I could also say that there was a referendum, in fact, money could be saved there, as we proposed at that time. I therefore propose that an additional 480 000 be redeployed in the budget for investments to update hospitals and for a paediatric clinic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So, my fellow Member, Dr. Marija Ana Tisovic, explained this amendment, but I would, because I don't believe that the amendment will be adopted, because if you haven't made a few million for the disabled, then I don't believe that you are more expensive to build a pediatric clinic, the problem is very big. I'm alone, I think I wrote here, on September 18, 2001, I'm in the Odessa, the TV Reflections, I've written down a statement by the mags of Rob -- he's not here right now. Oh, I think he's here. Mainly: in TV Reflections it ensures that if not possible under the budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, please let's calm down a little bit so that Mr Sok can ask the question and Minister Rob also hears it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u259	Then I'll do it again if he doesn't hear me. I'm used to repeating questions. So, I heard the Minister in Odessa at the time, who said clearly and loudly that funds for the construction of the pediatric clinic would be provided under budgetary options. If not, he said so, he would go abroad on his own and hire an appropriate loan to move the matter and that the pediatric clinic would finally be built. Well, that's his statement. When I heard that, I wrote these things on a sheet of paper and today I took them with me, and I said, at the budget, I'm going to ask him how this is going to work. Therefore, it follows from the budgetary investment plan itself that this year the budget is earmarking a billion 200 million, then in 2003 - of course, probably on the question - a billion 728; most of this money then assumes that it should be provided in 2004 and 6 billion and 200 million in 2005. We all know that there will be another political situation in 2005, so to speak, another relationship. Since we are talking a lot about this pediatric clinic, it is a matter of serious urgency that we have decided in Novi Slovenija to propose an amendment in this direction. Once again, we do not expect this to be accepted, because, of course, this parliamentary majority will vote differently, but I would like to hear from the minister that it is possible to explain in a little more detail what he meant at the time by the promise he made to the entire Slovenian public, in Odessa, Minister, 18.9.2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u260	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? No one else. I'm asking Minister Rob for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u261	I think we'll answer both of you with the Minister of Health. As you may well recall, when preparing the 2001 budget, we had a discussion on how much funding is needed for this year's pediatric clinic. And then in this national assembly, before the entire Slovenian public, not only in Odessa, I promised that if more resources are needed, then I guarantee that we will also provide more funds through redeployments. It turns out that more resources were needed this year, and you know that. The budget was set at 300 million and another 500 million had to be provided. And that's exactly what we've guaranteed. We made a reallocation and 800 million were provided this year. I also said that if a funding problem arises in the future in the construction of the paediatric clinic, we will provide these funds, both from the budget funds and from funds from abroad. In this regard, it was created jointly, between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, a project whereby, in addition to public funding for the purpose of the construction of the paediatric clinic, some funds would go from abroad to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or from the European Investment Bank - I also held several interviews in this regard, including with the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have also received these funds to a certain extent as a promise. However, in the whole matter, this is not so important because we will benefit from these funds only if this is necessary and if the concept of mixed construction of a paediatric clinic is to be built up. This has also been taken into account in the preparation of the budget and will be discussed further by the Minister of Health. And we - I am sure - have provided as much funding as is necessary for the next year to ensure that the construction is running normally in line with the projects that are ready. Let me say that this year we have also provided experts from abroad, specialists for the construction of hospitals that have been in Slovenia and have also prepared appropriate expertise. A special group has been formed to keep an eye on the entire project. This is essentially the organisational, technical and financial assessment of my assessment: the project is ready so that construction can run normally in the following year. In short, what was promised was also done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u263	I'd like to add some information. Of course, I find words difficult in my language because every minister in his department is happy to listen to proposals that would be justified in order to accelerate investment in the area where we are all in charge of respecting the opportunities the country has. However, I would like to say something that may not be present at any time that this country or government has significantly changed its priorities in this mandate in the field of investment in health. And to mention the number of the investment money in the last year of the previous mandate, there were 2.5 billion investments in health care, we have 5.5 billion investments in the coming year 2002 and even 8 billion in 2003. Along with the rest of the tides, we can count on about 10 billion investments in 2003, which, of course, is a drastic, dramatic increase, which, at a similar inflow, offers a better investment perspective in health care, so that even with a heavy heart, I must say that, as a resortory minister, within the discussions on the government budget, I have found that this is what the government can propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. For a moment, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Minister Rope. If this is the ease of obtaining funds, either by redistributing items to items or by acquiring, hiring credit abroad, then of course, the question arises why we are sitting here and putting there 8 million, that 6 million, and I am and there. You know, if it's that easy to make a decision and it's also possible to take it down, say, 1 billion up or down. That's a perfectly normal question. If this is not a problem, then I really don’t know why we were seriously making requests or making decisions with some lower amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u267	Of course, I assure you that this is a problem, that it is not easy and that, of course, it is possible to do so if there is a very high priority. The pediatric hospital is undoubtedly one of those priorities that we committed ourselves to together in this National Assembly, which we talked about together, and that is why, of course, we also did everything we promised and guaranteed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u268	Thank you. Can we close this debate on this amendment? Yes, you can. I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the amendment, which is to the sub-programme Investment Investment in Hospitals. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 21 votes against 47 Members and Members. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are with the next user, this is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, first of all the sub-programme Scientific Research Activities in public research organisations. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As part of the increase in resources in the sub-programme Scientific research activities in public research organisations, the training and development of scientific personnel is increased by 200 million tolars. The funds are allocated to the training of 50 new young researchers. We know that the promotion of young researchers does not only mean a development-oriented programme but also the promotion of development-oriented sciences. Last but not least, science is a factor that is extremely important for the economy, its competitiveness and its added value. The additional appropriations are intended, but are included in the project item and for other costs. I mean, it's much more important that we have young researchers first before we start spending money on costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u270	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] Can we close the debate? I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 19 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The sub-programme Sports Programmes, two amendments, was signed by mag on behalf of the Group of Members. A visor. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to vote on the amendments to the Sports Programme sub-programme. Voice explanation, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I thought you'd put the first amendment to the vote first and then the second amendment. All right, I'll just... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u272	It's the same all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u273	I'm just going to ask for an explanation of my vote. [[...]] So, the first amendment, if adopted, will allow for the construction of a sports hall in the municipality of Tržič, specifically in the department or in the part of Bistrica pri Tržič, which, on the proposal of liberal democracy, is still lacking to split Tržič into two parts. Well, the other amendment is an amendment to the stadium. The amendment, which foresees 300 million tolars in the first year for the construction of the national stadium in Ljubljana. Now the world's football audience. I will not go to any Begant, but I would very much like to warn my colleagues and colleagues that in the euphoria of football successes, our Slovenian team has been very interested in monitoring their events, and they have also been accompanied live by the Tribune of the old stadium behind Bežigrad, which many experts believe is not even like themselves anymore. Although I must say that I was very surprised by the comments of the Eurosport TV satellite station, which said that this is one of the most beautiful stadiums in Europe - it was probably not present directly in this space. Given that the Ljubljana City Council has already decided and discussed investments in this sport facility in recent years, it would be fair and right that both Ljubljanans and Slovenian football and other public also help us to accept this amendment. There's a lot of people laughing at me, but you've been standing in this stadium, you should understand more the needs of this than I have, which I haven't been there in years. But nevertheless, I think it is right and fair to support the issue and to help Slovenia to a better image also in the field of sport and football. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u274	Mr. Rupar, are you going to vote yes or no? [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u275	Mr President, I hope that we will both vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u276	Thank you. That was the explanation for the voice. Anyone else, please? He wants to explain his voice, I think. [[Nobody.]] We move to a vote on the amendment under order number one in the Sports Programme sub-programme. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 19 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 19 Members and Members voted against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're at the Adult Education subroutine. We have an amendment here. First signed on behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Who wants a word? Yes, Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen and ladies of the government! You probably know what this amendment is about. It's connected to the one you've already rejected when it came to a new commitment. I am extremely glad to be able to speak in this atmosphere, for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u278	Ladies and gentlemen! Please, a little more patience!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u279	I ask for a little patience that I may speak in this atmosphere, because it seems to me that the whole thing resembles a congregation of past times rather than a serious parliament. [[...]] It seems to me that this is one comedy all together, which is not called "the camel comedy," but probably should be called "the trista comedy." Why am I saying that? We've talked about pluralism before today. How brilliant pluralism works. And in fact, it's the other way around. For when a person looks at this last amendment, for example, which was proposed, I think it would be in our common interest to support it. Ono: someone said "we won't support" - you didn't support it. And I find this awful, humiliating for the parties who have to follow the government down and down the line to the end. This is not a parliament, please. Good. And if I gave my support for this amendment, I'd say that. I do not know if you have read the declaration recently adopted by the government on past times and say that the whole of Europe and Slovenia have fallen into the abyss and have also drawn Slovenia into its garden. Okay, that vortex was real. I'm not talking about who caused it. That's all I want to say. You'll say I'm exaggerating if I say that for a long time, one of them has been more similar to the other, and that those others aren't the same to anyone, and that's what's been going on for 50 years. Is that right? There are various veteran organizations here. Some governments support them and others absolutely ignore them. And I've been watching this for years. When I was president of a civil organisation, I was also invited to the Honorary Committee, which he convened, if I am not mistaken, the President of the State. And there, when we talked, I said to him, "Listen, there are others here," because he had a list to invite everyone, and I said, "Listen, Mr. President, there are other veteran organisations." He said, "Write them down for me." I said, "Look, you should know this better than I do, because you had a government across, and you worked with the police and so on." And then he said, "Write to me." I've been writing. And what happened? Without naming that organization, it came back to me that this gentleman was a member of your civil organization. [[...]] I wanted it to be fixed. It didn't work out. And that was the conclusion. Now I ask you, what kind of person who has a little civil conscience who understands life would do something like that? Let's do what we should have done here a long time ago. There wasn't just one hell of a lot of them here. And when we talk about not opening up old wounds - I'm all for it - but with this abyss and this vortex and all that, it always takes more than one person. So I urge you to support this so that those people who have worked so hard all these years to identify their own victims will receive the support of the government. But if we can't do that, then I'll ask the Secretary of State to explain to me why not. The last time we were on the committee, I made it clear that if this - because of course, was rejected, again after this logic follow-on leader, whoever it is. And the lady explained it to me very nicely, but without all content, although I admire the Secretary of State: because of her energy, patience and so on, but I would like a substantive answer, why we cannot get somewhere in the budget of these poor 70 million tolars. And if we don't get them, then the government - the government sitting there - can forget about this declaration - if that's it. If the government cannot take some concrete steps, not only to dig up those who have been killed and buried them, which we should have done long ago if we wanted to behave humanly, then this paper is a completely empty thing and simply "painting" people. So please support this and we'll move on as friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? [[No one else.]] Representatives of the government, Ministry of Education? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on this amendment. We move to vote on amendment number one, sub-programme Adult Education. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are helping with the sub-programme in primary education, where one amendment was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Who wants a word? Please, Mrs. Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that. Primary education is compulsory in Slovenia, meaning that parents are obliged to provide at least minimum education to children. The basic condition for completing primary school is also children's development and proper, regular diet. It is extremely inappropriate that children of socially weak families cannot afford lunch because of the excessive family budget, but it is even more difficult for all these children when they cannot afford a school in nature; this discrimination is particularly visible in rural areas. Children are hurt, and all you have to do is experience it. I experienced this myself when I had enough children, and I saw how children who could not go to school in nature were locked up and couldn’t even tell how they really felt. Therefore, I think that, although you claim that this is already being taken care of and so forth, more should be put into primary education. That is why we have proposed that 210,000 be redeployed to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please. It's a primary school aid program. Of the 64 present, 17 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Here we also have a sub-programme to assist in secondary education where the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk is. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u283	I'm picking up again. In Slovenia too much is spoken of and insufficiently done for social justice and for equitable regional development. It is unacceptable that high school students or children cannot be enrolled in high school because they are too far away from school centres. So a lot of people complain to me and say, "I could get two kids to high school, I couldn't have a third." [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u284	A little more attention, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u285	"...because my salary isn't big enough to pay the kids bus fare." Isn't it sad that we can't arrange these transports for high school students? I think we should do this. We would also say that we have given equal opportunities to all children, including those from very remote places where they do not have such connections or that the bus is quite expensive. Do you understand? If Mom has to give three times 20 grand a month for a bus ride, it's $60,000, and she makes $55,000, and her father's salary is to survive, then you can figure out how it goes. I think that these proposals, ours, should be supported if we go the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u286	Thank you. Who wants another word? Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that. Given the fact that the government representatives in the field of education are now among us, it might be right to just explain and tell how they actually intend to resolve this problem. Because this is a problem, it is a big problem for all those school-bound children who live far outside of school. So they are in an inappropriately poor situation with regard to those school-bound students who are not compulsory, but today it is a condition that this has already become a necessity and an obligation. Of course, if someone doesn't want to go to high school, they don't have to go. But I understand that we are at this stage, that this has almost become an obligation. Even if we want to align ourselves somehow with the other European nations, this will become an obligation. I would ask that the Ministry's representatives answer this question by answering how they actually see this problem and how they intend to solve it, because we want to talk about these equal opportunities, the whole campaign is geared up to this theory of equal opportunities: "All equal, all equal". But in this area, of course, we cannot say that we are all equal and equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u288	Thank you. Any other Members and Members would like a word? Then I ask for an answer from the Ministry of Education. Perhaps Mrs. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u289	Thank you very much for asking me, upstairs, we are studying this problem at the Ministry, even within the resources allocated. And this is addressed in a number of ways, not only by allowing - for example, the previous example of a school in nature - the financing of individuals, but by building homes that are, of course, subsidized, you can also review it in the budget itself. It is, however, a fact that the social sector is somehow breaking down here and that is why the Ministry intends to prepare some measures within the proposed budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u291	I'd like to ask the distinguished Minister when she intends to do so. You started out that way when the funds were allocated and it seems to me that's what it sounds like: someone is giving you these funds, and you have no influence on getting them. I mean two things. First of all, it's your duty to get funding for this and not just to study. That's why I'd like to know when you're going to do it. Thank you. Before the kids are in business.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u292	Thank you. Please. Answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u293	I join your opinion that we must present in the shortest possible time a way of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u295	I would like to briefly discuss the importance of education as a basic item for equity in society because of the debate. If there is a basis for the exercise of justice in modern societies, equality of opportunity for education is, in particular, public education. The first is, of course, that the state is democratic and that it eliminates monopolies, that not on the basis of monopolies one gains some references and benefits. So that's the first thing that has to be. The second is: for sure and everywhere, the same opportunity to education. If Slovenia does not take serious steps here, it will fall behind, and it will also violate or be granted from the fundamental postulate of a just society. Modern companies give the most to do so. These two criteria are crucial for modern societies. Obviously, things are going a different way for us to be educated, to be educated primarily by the rich, but they will not be able to involve those who come from economically weak families. Too bad, it's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-29-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u296	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. Then I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the Secondary Education Aid Sub-programme. Let's vote, please! Of the 69 present, 21 Members and Members voted in favour. 47 were against it. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It's 6:06 a.m., and we have three amendments to school. Shall we finish and proceed tomorrow? [[The voices in the background.]] Who's opposed to us ending these three amendments? If anyone objects, we'll stop. Thank you very much. We'll resume tomorrow at 10:00.
