ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Parliament is sovereign, the only time is its master and it is right to respect it. I ask Members and Members to place their cards in the voting apparatus, so that we can determine the presence. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good afternoon. I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that they are detained and therefore cannot attend today's meetings of our next colleague and colleagues: Anton Delak, Franc Sušnik, Ana Marija Tisovic, Jelko Kacin, Franc Tukjati, Franz Pukšič, Dr. Miha Brejc from 10.30 p.m., Jožef Spindler for the start of the meeting, Roberto Battelli and Maria Possonec. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! There are 48 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I have invited the Prime Minister and ministers, or other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I very much welcome them among us. I want all of you to do well and successfully the tasks assigned to this meeting. First, we will proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the 6th extraordinary session. You received the draft agenda by reference on 10 April this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We will first move on to motions for the withdrawal of matters from the agenda. Mr. Pucko, Chairman of the Finance Committee, you have the floor. Besides, I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u3	Just a moment, Mr. President. I think we're still being joined by government representatives. The National Assembly will be very grateful if we all stick to the clock. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The mother labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public funds and, in view of the comments of the secretariat and the opinion of most discussers, proposes to the national assembly the withdrawal of this item from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Would you like a representative of the government? Please, Minister Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! The government agrees with this proposal and will try to settle the matter in ZIPRO during the day, in the part relating to the implementation of the budget. So we agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. Thus decided 53 of them, two of them opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. As I have already announced in the meeting, I propose to the assembly that the agenda of the extraordinary session be extended by considering the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law which is before the State Assembly in the third reading. This is a law related to the consideration of the 2001 State Budget. In agreement with the College of the President of the National Assembly, this law should be dealt with before the state budget. Does the rapporteur or the president of the competent working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] A fellow Rockhead? [[No, no, ……]] Do representatives of parliamentary groups or governments want to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 51 of them voted in favour of the proposal, one opposed it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider that proposal to be 1A on the agenda. Anyone else want a word about extensions? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision-making session of the National Assembly on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The bill is withdrawn and we can therefore decide on a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. The Government proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly in a swift manner. Does the government want a representative with regard to this word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee responsible? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? There's no interest in that. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 63 Members present in the Chamber. 42 of them voted in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This way we can vote on the draft agenda as a whole. I propose today's agenda session, which you have received with reference and with the amendments and additions adopted. We are voting on the proposal. There are 64 Members and Members present. 47 of them voted in favour, 1 of them opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I take it that the agenda for the 6th extraordinary meeting has been adopted. We consulted at the college on the meeting time. We agreed that today the National Assembly will hold until 6 p.m. If we find that there are possibilities, given the course of the debate, that the National Assembly will also conclude today, we will try to do so. If we assess that there are many questions or answers left at 6 p.m., we will continue the meeting tomorrow. We'll discuss this, as we say, at 6 p.m. That's how we move on to 1. On the 1st and the 1st. Please, Comrade Andrelich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u8	Yeah, in the way that this has been said, it's really hard to work. You didn't tell me when it would be time for people to plan, you didn't tell me when we'd really be working. I propose that we make a procedural decision, because obviously in coordination between the College, where as far as it has been agreed, and Members have not been able to do what should have been done, so inform how this meeting of the National Assembly will take place. I suggest that the assembly decide when it will work and when it is expected to conclude this meeting. If you don't make this procedural proposal - because what we're waiting for, and what we're going to see is whether we're going to extend it, or whatever - we are, at least I don't like it personally. Therefore, my procedural proposal is to complete at least 2nd or now this is the first item of the agenda for this meeting and we will discuss the second item later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u9	So at college we agreed that the National Assembly would start its work at 10 a.m. and work until 6 p.m. At least that's what was said, and then we'll assess whether we can end the meeting today or continue it tomorrow. The rest in this case is traditional, between 1:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. If colleague Anderlič proposes that the National Assembly should now make a statement on the conclusion of the main agenda, then the State Assembly will decide on that. This is the point on the budget. Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u10	I wasn't talking about anything, but I suggested that this be the decision of the National Assembly. That's my suggestion. But I suggest we cut the break from an hour and a half to an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u11	Thank you. I put both proposals to the vote. So today the National Assembly concludes this agenda item, which is in charge of this meeting, to shorten the traditional hour and a half for lunch, to an hour. I put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The proposal to conclude today was supported by 40 MEPs and 18 opposed it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 18.]] Is there any other proposal concerning the course of the sitting? If not, then we can proceed with the work. We move on to 1A DOT OF THE DAY - THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE COST LAW. The draft law was tabled by Mr Rokavec. Does the proposer want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the Government! Good-bye! I have prepared a proposal for a third reading law in accordance with the second reading of the amendments adopted, as well as in accordance with the adopted decision of the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure. The bill contains solutions for small combustion producers, because it in some ways simplifies the process, as well as excise duty solutions for the payment of the excise duty on cigarettes and cigarette products. Where new articles have been added to the draft law by adopting the amendment in the second reading, the number of these articles differs from the number of proposals for the legislative text in the second reading. In view of the transparency of the text and the easier comparison of both texts, the proposal retains the number of articles of the previous marriage text in brackets. This also ensures greater transparency in the text of the law itself. I propose that the National Assembly, after discussion, adopt the draft law together with the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the president want a word? He does. Comrade Pucka, Chairman of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Committee considered the proposed law and adopted its four amendments on Articles 15, 16, 23 and 26. It is two amendments of editorial nature and two which define more clearly the specific text of the law. He did not support the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia under Article 18. However, he did not discuss and decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 17, which was tabled after the Committee had completed this point. I propose to the assembly that it support the amendments of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Pucko. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u16	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duty for third treatment is prepared in accordance with the conclusions of the national assembly. The Government also supports the amendments formulated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its meeting on 18 April. At the same time, the government cannot support the amendment tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group on Article 18 of the proposal concerning the application of excise duty exemption for mineral oils for motor vehicles in public road transport. It should be said that, in order to fully address the problem of bus carriers at the meeting on 12 April 2001, we have set up a special inter-resor working group at the government and will prepare comprehensive proposals to address the problems of carriers as soon as possible. We estimate that the adoption of such an amendment would prejudge the work of the said working group and prevent the problem from being solved where the Government believes it should be resolved, and this is in the Road Transport Act. And, of great importance, the adoption of such an amendment would constitute a breach of the obligations which Slovenia has undertaken in negotiations with the European Union because it is contrary to the directives of the European Union. For these reasons, we also propose not to accept this amendment, but to support and adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia will support these changes in the excise law. However, we would like to draw attention to the amendment tabled by our Group of Members, which has not yet been addressed by the mother labour body in this overall labour crisis and the burden of the National Assembly. This is an amendment to the text of the new Article 2 where we propose to amend it by making it possible to increase excise duty on cigarettes and other tobacco products much faster than the government itself has proposed. This way of harmonising excise duties will achieve positive effects in the public and health sectors. It is also generally known that higher prices of cigarettes have a pre-emptive effect on adolescents, so that they do not start with this habit, which is becoming an addiction very quickly. However, as far as addiction is concerned, I could say a lot myself because I am also struggling with this problem. The proposed amendment will bring together a substantial number of excise and indirect value added tax appropriations. We propose that the funds concerned be used to prevent the treatment of the consequences of smoking and to build a paediatric clinic. It is completely incomprehensible, however, why the government decided to increase excise duties in such a slow way after the initial proposal of the excise law. This has huge negative social consequences and no positive consequences for the wider public interest. This is what the government has now found and tabled its amendment to increase excise duty on cigarettes, but its proposal is too slow to meet its objectives. We therefore ask our colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment to Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u19	Before I give the floor to the competent minister, I ask whether Members and Members wish to discuss the proposal in full. [[They don't want to.]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Apparently, Dr. Bajuk New Slovenia's proposal is very acceptable for substantive reasons. However, such an amendment raises the question of what changes this would result in in the market and, of course, in terms of the impact of the revenue of the budget. Indeed, we believe that such changes are too rapid to affect price growth, that they would also, of course, cause some instability in the tobacco industry and also reduce the competitive advantage of the Slovenian market compared to others. As an example, I would like to refer to the case of Poland where such a measure has been taken. They increased such excise duties from 17.1 to 27 in 1998 to 2001. This means that they were relatively quick to raise the excise duty rate and their market decreased during this period, while sales declined from 90 billion to 68 billion. Thus, the country’s revenues fell significantly, from 7.9 billion to 6.4 billion zlotys. This, of course, means that we will conscientiously give up part of our expenses and income in this case. What we intend, of course, is, and what is the proposal and intention of this proposal, that we raise excise duties gradually, that we gradually adapt the market and that we do not, of course, lose revenue substantially. That's, I'd say, the only fundamental problem in this case. That is why, of course, we believe that such an amendment means, however, too quickly raising excise duties and that it would result in the loss of revenue of the budget. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Anyone else want a word? Yes, Dr. Bayuk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to add that, according to our accounts, what the government has proposed now would bring about cca. 4 billion tolars over the next five years. With this amendment, which we propose, but which will actually achieve the full balance of our excise duties in the same way as the government proposes, but rather faster, it would mean an even greater 4 billion in cash. However, as far as the argument on our competitiveness is concerned, I would only add that precisely excise duties in neighbouring countries and elsewhere in the world are much higher than ours and that competitiveness will still be ensured, even through our respected colleagues and colleagues, accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we raise excise duties, we'll be at 57% and we'll be completely comparable. This means that we will no longer have a lower excise duty and will not be competitive. That's perfectly clear. I may have forgotten to mention this information earlier that at the time the excise duty in Poland rose rapidly, the black market with cigarettes had developed and it was estimated that it had reached over 12 billion packs of cigarettes, which is of course exceptional. This is an additional danger if there is a rapid leap to develop the black market and speculation. I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u25	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Just one more supplement to judge respected colleagues and colleagues! That a government amendment that actually changes what is still incomprehensible today, why we have committed ourselves to such low excise duties in Slovenia, would do so in eight stages, in five years, and we propose that this be done in four stages, the final level being exactly what the government will propose. For almost three years, however, it is sufficient for our industry, the tobacco industry, to prepare for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I also conclude this debate. We are moving on to a decision on amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on excise duty in the third reading. You have a review of the amendments on the bench before you, and I suggest we decide on them. First, I am putting an amendment to Article 15 into consideration and decision-making. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude this debate. The amendment to Article 15 proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be put to the vote. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We decide on the amendments. 66 Members and Members are present. 33 of them voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] That's how he was accepted. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 16. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the amendment to Article 16 to the vote. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 44 votes in favour of the amendment to Article 16, one objecting to it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 17. I'm opening a debate on him. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 17. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 15 votes in favour, 35 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 18. I'm opening a debate on him. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 18. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The amendments were voted in favour of 15 and 33 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment is not supported. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate, and please? [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] We've got 23 more. I'm sorry. Article 23(3) Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put the amendment to Article 23 to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 42 voted in favour of the amendment, one objecting to it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment of the Finance Committee has been adopted. Right now, to Article 26 and to his amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] The amendment to Article 26 will be decided by vote. We're voting. 66 Members and Members were present.39 were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate mutual compliance? [[It's not.]] Since it is not, we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 44 voted for, no one objected. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the supplementary proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2001. The updated draft budget was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the Minister want a word? You have the floor to the supplementary draft budget. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u28	Dear Members and honourable Members and Mr President! We have prepared a complementary draft budget based on a number of discussions in the framework of the parent committee, within the framework of individual committees, and also in other discussions within the government, which took place in connection with the draft budget. In doing so, we have tried to take as many of your comments as possible, including those addressed to the draft budget by both the professional and the political public. In this regard, we have also taken into account that, at the time of the preparation of the budget update, there were no significant deviations in the assessment of economic developments, and this, of course, had an important impact on our assessment of the possibility of amending the budget. However, there are also important reasons for proposing some amendments to the final accounts of legal persons who change certain assumptions in the assessment of budgetary revenues to a certain extent. We got these evaluations in the meantime and they came out fourteen days ago. Given that the draft budget has already been drawn up this year, there are also no major differences between the assessment of the implementation of the budget for 2000 and the previous implementation of the budget, which would have a greater impact on the budget. Thus, the realised revenue of the 2001 budget was 991.6 billion, and in the draft budget we took into account 990.4 billion. The budget expenditure implemented for 2000 was 1,029.7 billion tolars, while the assessment of implementation in the draft budget was 1.027.8 billion. The amount of commitments transferred, which was often discussed last year, remained unchanged at the end of the financial year and is still 22.8 billion, accounting for 0.48% of gross domestic product. The Government's proposal for an updated budget and definition for the amendments tabled was mainly based on some important objectives: that the budgetary and public financial deficit should remain unchanged; that as much consistency as possible should be maintained in respect of the fundamental budgetary principles arising from the Public Finance Act; that some of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors arising from the 1999 accounts should also be respected, which is important in particular due to the conversion of certain expenditure and revenue; that the budget should include revenue and expenditure resulting from events in the last two months; and that, with the limitations given, we should follow to the extent possible the requirements of amending the budget for those purposes that were most affected in the budget discussion of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The budget additions, of course, include changes in expenditure and revenue. Changes on the revenue side are based on the projected revenues of 10.6 billion tolars. Increases in income to the greatest extent from the so-called grossing-up of certain items, as well as from previous accounts data for 2000. According to a report by the paying agency, the net profit margin of the companies increased by 17% in 2000 compared to 1999, so that we can expect from this title to increase the revenue tax on the final accounts for 2000 as well as a slightly higher deposit of that tax in 2001. The overall impact of this heading is estimated at 2.6 billion additional revenue. There is also an increase in the expected expenditure on participation in the profits of public companies, companies and banks from previous accounts data for 2000, which are also slightly better than those assessed. The results for 2000 show that an additional 535 million tolls of revenue can be expected from the State's participation in the profit of banks that are predominantly owned by the State and from the participation in the profits of some 400 million. In addition, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia has adopted a decision to place 3.3 billion Slovenian Tolars in the state budget after the 2000 final account, which means 1.3 billion more revenue than we originally calculated. As of 1 March 2001, a new excise duty on natural gas was introduced, which means an additional 720 million Slovenian tolars. The increase in the projected revenue from other non-tax revenue is based on the decision envisaged in the ZIPRA proposal to cover the Commission’s payment turnover commission for the State budget, which has not yet been shown in the draft budget, and never before. The inclusion of this commission of the Agency for Payments is 3.4 billion Slovenian Tolars. However, this is a budgetary neutral operation. Revenue and expenditure shall be increased. As on the revenue side, of course, expenditure increases by 10.6 billion. Of this, it is proposed to increase 3.7 billion, 3.4 for the Agency for Payments and 350 for Coins to respect the gross principle. In view of the out-of-court settlement concluded with Geoplin, expenditure of 1.9 billion Slovenian tolars is foreseen and the Ministry of Economy's financial plan is being increased from this heading. These are some of the data on expenditure that actually means increasing resources and expenditure. On the other hand, we have also, of course, included some of the expenditure highlighted in the debate in the National Assembly. In the area of health care, we have allocated additional resources to the Institute of Oncology of Ljubljana, which uses demanding medical equipment in the treatment of cancer patients and the use of new medical technical requirements in treatment procedures requires replacement. In doing so, it is essential to provide an appropriate standard for patients by completing the investment, so 620 million Slovenian tolars are allocated to the complementary proposal for an oncology institute. In view of the amendments to the Social Protection Act adopted in March, it was necessary to provide an additional 500 million; since the initial draft budget had taken into account that the amendments would be implemented in October and the law adopted in the National Assembly provided for the entry into force on 1 September 2001. In the field of education, the additions of Members addressed by the National Assembly's Home Committee and additional resources of SIT 300 million are devoted to the purchase of computer, machine and software for primary and secondary schools and 200 million tolls are earmarked for investments in school premises. More budgetary resources have enabled us to propose, within the current budget reserve, an increase of 1.5 billion Slovenian tolars, which will enable us to be more flexible in the implementation of the budget, and in particular to provide the necessary additional resources, in particular to provide intervention and preventive measures in the prevention of BSE diseases, communicable diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and, of course, other problems that have occurred to us in the agricultural field, even in recent times, for example because of the cold. In the area of justice, an increase of 185 million tolars is being made mainly for the payment of past commitments for investments in last year. In line with the decision of the Commission of the National Elections and Appointments Assembly and taking into account the debate on this committee at the time of consideration of the draft budget, the State Emergency Computer Equipment Assembly shall be provided with an additional 100 million tolars to complete the adaptation and reconstruction of the hall in which we are and 150 million. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! These are the main changes that we have included in the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. More than 70 amendments have been tabled in the National Assembly since the submission of the supplementary draft budget. The government - this is yesterday's decision - supports all those amendments that have also been supported by the mother's working body. It may be worth mentioning among all the amendments specifically tabled by the various Members of Parliament, various groups of Members, in particular the amendment to the paediatric clinic. This has also raised the highest level of attention in the debates. Together with the Minister of Health, we have sought a solution to this amendment and a solution to the problem, as we all undoubtedly agree that it is necessary to speed up the construction of a pediatric clinic and we need to do everything possible to get to it as soon as possible. Our joint assessment was that the proposed volume of funds is likely to be sufficient, but it might still be valid to increase it, in order to undoubtedly provide all the necessary additional resources that will be urgently needed this year to start the construction of a paediatric clinic, so we have agreed with the Ministry of Health, with the Minister, to redistribute the health department 100 million and increase this item by 100 million. This is what we have proposed to the MP who has tabled such an amendment - Mrs Danice Simšič - I think she has already collected signatures on this amendment and this amendment is supported by the government. This means 100 million more funding for a paediatric clinic. But, of course, the commitment of both of us, both the Minister of Health and mine, is that if it turns out that the level of resources this year is too small to provide additional funds. So let this also be a challenge for those who run the project to speed up construction, to speed up the project, and if they need additional resources, we will be committed, with the Minister of Health, to providing these funds and to providing them, I can assure you that, and I think, that will also be provided to you by the Minister of Health. Dear Members and Members! The budget you accept today is, of course, relatively late. We prepared it relatively quickly because we had to prepare it because it required the situation, it was prepared after the elections, and it is therefore also transitional in a certain sense. We are solving a number of problems that have accumulated in the past year. In particular, this is a problem of the commitments we have committed of 22.8 billion, which we are saving, both in these months and also in the coming months, and they are burdening the 2001 budget. No matter what the problems, no matter what the problems and all the criticisms, we are reducing deficits, public financial and budgetary deficits, and we are on our way to stabilising Slovenian public finances. In the framework, as far as possible, we have, of course, tried to follow as closely as possible the priorities set by the coalition and the government, and we have also tried to support the amendments that we have created together in recent days and have also adopted them, and we are trying to hit them even more and follow them even more. Of course, there is an even more important task to follow. In these days we are practically starting to draw up the next budget. The project ahead of us is ambitious, we want a budget for two years. Over the next two years, we want to virtually stabilise Slovenia's public finances and at the same time meet the key priorities set by the coalition. In the coming months, we will do everything we can to achieve this and to prove it in the National Assembly and in a concrete life. It is therefore essential that this draft state budget be accepted as soon as possible, in the part where it is necessary, to ensure the normal functioning of the country and to allow projects to continue and meet all the priorities that we share. I therefore propose that you also adopt such a proposal for the updated budget for 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You will first be followed by representatives of parliamentary groups whose presentation should not last more than 20 minutes. Then we will go to the debate on the individual parts of the supplementary draft budget, in order, to the general part, the specific part and then to the development programme plan. Each part of the budget will be open-ended, the whole part of the budget, as well as the debate on the amendments tabled. The amendments will be discussed in clusters, through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budget user, to which amendments have been tabled. In the context of a single set, after the discussion, we will first vote on the amendments of the groups of Members and then on the amendments of the home working body. So is the review of the amendments you have on the bench. Once the National Assembly has decided on all parts of the budget, together with the amendments tabled, the harmonisation of the measure thus adopted as regards revenue and expenditure shall be determined. If the state budget is harmonised, the National Assembly will vote on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2001. In the event that the budget is not harmonised, the assembly will suspend and entrust the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, with a view to preparing a harmonisation amendment, which will be decided by the assembly at the following time. Representatives of the parliamentary groups may present their views on the harmonisation amendment within a maximum period of 5 minutes. If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the procedure for examining the state budget will be completed and if the harmonisation amendment is adopted, the State Assembly will move to a full vote on the draft budget With regard to the consideration of the State budget, I would like to end by telling you that the government presented to us yesterday afternoon a programme of measures and investments to be co-financed at local level from the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You have received material from the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and it is also published in the Lotus Notes programming environment. Dr. Bayuk wanted procedural. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out to my colleagues that the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also indicated in today's agenda, contains one mistake which has already been corrected. At the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, the Ministry of Finance provided this material, which is now in the Rapporteur's office. 16/XI, and these are the last 260 pages reporting on overtime and all commitments already made in the implementation of the budget in 2000. I would like to say that this is a key information because the National Assembly must have the full picture of what is going on with our public finances based on the implementation of previous budgets and the various legally established options that the direct users of the budget have had [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] beyond the budget itself. [[...]] The mistake that was made has already been corrected. This material was forwarded to the Commission. All the members of the commission received this and I personally forwarded it to the Chairman of the Finance Committee. However, I would like to ask the secretariat if this correction, this table, is of this 260 pages, if all the members of the National Assembly have actually received it. I think it is crucial that all Members and Members receive this material before this debate continues. I would therefore ask if you had not all been aware of this immediately and if necessary, but would also suggest a half break to make these copies. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The secretary-general will see if it's the same material. This is a matter that I read at the end of the notice regarding the course of the hearing. In view of the fact that yesterday afternoon the government forwarded to the leaders of the groups of Members of Parliament, otherwise to all Members and Members of the Lotus Notes programme of investment measures co-financed at local level by the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This material is thus accessible to all Members and may be decided by the national assembly. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President! That's not what Dr. Andrey Bajuk asked. As a Member, I declare that I have not received this material, and I have not been informed that this material is available in this information network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u33	So this material is published in the programming environment. At least that's how I'm informed. And the leaders of the parliamentary groups got him. That material is extensive. Anyone who wants to look at it can get it in Lotus Notees. I propose to the National Assembly that we do not interrupt the meeting so that everyone can print it for himself, unless, of course, there is such a proposal as I will put to the vote. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u34	Mr. President! I think it's a mistake because it's not the same material. Dr Bayuk points to the material that was further given to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances after the Ministry of Finance acknowledged that there had been a mistake in the material. What we have in the basic material in the tables is the material that's wrong. What is here in the official session is a material that has a big mistake of 80 billion tolars. The Ministry of Finance has fixed this in recent days, and we do not have Members on our hands. If it's in Lotus Note, it doesn't help us here, because there's still no organized connections that we could have computers on the table through and that would be accessible to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u35	The adoption of this budget will also address this weakness. Madam Secretary of State wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I must say, in the material published in the Rapporteur, it is not really a mistake. We have also discussed this quite widely on the budgetary control committee and have found that it is actually a display system, an overload in the coming period. The system we have at the Ministry of Finance is such that, at the beginning of the year, they also come into the system of overtime, which is an overload on wages and on interest, as these are legal obligations. Such a copy was submitted to the Commission and then published in the Rapporteur. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control, the discussion concluded that this over-burden was precisely on the salaries and interest of the Chamber in order to enable the Commission to identify the actual over-scheduling in the programming sets. At the specific request and comments of the Commission, the Ministry of Finance, as published in the Rapporteur, excluded only the overpayments on salaries and interest and forwarded the material requested to the Commission. Thus, in fact, the difference between the two materials is only in overtime on wages, which is seen by the strength of the material in the Rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Is that explanation enough? First, a colleague of Dr. Bajuk and colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Whether we call it a mistake or not, the fact is that in these tables, in the supplementary draft budget, there is data that does not actually fall under the heading of overload. However, it is essential in our assessment that all colleagues and colleagues have greater transparency, as we know today in the Ministry of Finance and also in the National Assembly on the overall overload and systemic problems of how we deal with our public finances. I would only ask and insist on the fact that Members and Members of Parliament are familiar with the material that has been transmitted through the Ministry of Finance to this Commission, which I myself have also given to the President of the Committee on Finance in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u39	If I'm well informed, you're talking about the material that your Committee or the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Finance has received. Is that right? If not, we will make it brief, it has not been sent to the National Assembly, if not, we will take a short break and resolve this problem. My friend Pucko and then my colleague Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What you said was not an accurate interpretation of what Dr. Bayuk's colleague said. This is because, at the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, this Commission received it and was handed over to me informally by the President of the Commission. That is why the financial committee has not received this in its consideration, but through mediation, and I also thank my colleague Bayuk, President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Which, in fact, means or I think, would be good for us to accommodate and distribute material to all Members of Parliament as proposed by Comrade Bayuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u41	All right, then I'll give it to you. You want my colleague Janš to explain another word? My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u42	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, the Ministry of Finance! The National Assembly is ahead of one key task in the year it adopts or is expected to adopt and decide on the key use of the Treasury. What we heard earlier from the finance minister is one piece of this story. I'd like to introduce you to another. In fact, we are now ahead of the fifth adoption of the state budget proposed by the budget deficit planned. This fifth time, the National Assembly adopts a state budget in which the balance sheet is not drawn up, in which it is planned that we spend more than we create or obtain in the budget. All of these five budgets have been prepared practically under the same political options, the same Prime Minister, and in all these five years, the budget deficit is rising rapidly. This year's budget deficit is almost a third higher than the official budget deficit for 2000 or, more precisely, 30% higher. The share of government consumption in gross domestic product rose from 22% to 26.2% in the years 92 to today, says it increased by 4.2%. At the same time, indicators pointing to the dangerous indebtedness of the public sector are increasing, but the government has also decided this year to prepare and consider the adoption of the budget in accordance with the old methodology and the old approach. We were able to understand this immediately, from large and sometimes more carefully prepared budget documents, which are still very opaque after ten years of self-planning in a independent Slovenian country. In order to confirm the continuation of old practice, it was necessary to wait for the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget, which is an act which actually shows how the government intends to implement budgetary policy this year. The law on the implementation of the budget for this year, which we will address under the next item, but I think it would be very good for the future, and this is a huge lack of rules of procedure, to bring together a debate on these two documents. Until you see the whole thing, it's very difficult to make decisions about numbers or to make decisions to a large extent, because first we decide on the separations, on the partial decisions, and then on the whole law. In short, this law also reflects the Government's awareness that its forecasts of the assumptions on which this budget is prepared are uncertain and that, therefore, it wants even more time-limits or additional powers than before for the implementation of the budget policy or budget for 2001. First of all, in this debate, it is important to note, of course, the general economic situation which has been largely driven by a policy of budgetary debt, or by a wrong assumption or philosophy, so that a small country such as Slovenia can promote economic growth through budgetary indebtedness. A different approach would be needed here to channel all forces and invest in measures that would lead to an increase in exports and entry into foreign markets, which would lead to greater new value and would not be necessary. The most eloquent evidence on the increase in interest rates in this March is where the public budget or the whole public sector owes it. This increase encouraged the Ministry of Finance with interest rates on treasury bills to finance the budget deficit. The government's expenditure on temporary budgetary funding for this year has exceeded the revenue by about 50%. In order to finance the deficit, the government had to push out other borrowers on the money market. Minister Gaspari raised interest rates right at the time they were reduced by the US Central Bank and the European Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance has accelerated its provision of a significant part of the current financing of budgetary expenditure. Banka Slovenije also followed the interest rate hike due to the balance sheet on the banking market. The former governor explained his decision to raise interest rates like this. I quote: Interest rate increases are not encouraging, but the central bank must offer a similar high interest rate at the moment when the Ministry of Finance issues a very high interest rate. Instead of increasing differences in domestic and foreign interest rates in recent years, there has been an increase. For example, the European Central Bank’s interest rate is 3.75% and the Slovenian central banks are 11%. This, of course, also increases the possibilities for Slovenia's actual entry into European monetary space. There was virtually no speech on this subject, although in two years this will be one of the key problems Slovenia will have on its way to the European Union. However, this growing gap between domestic and foreign interest rates has had a major impact on the indebtedness of companies. This is about the rapid increase in the indebtedness of Slovenian companies and financial institutions abroad and the simultaneous transformation of the domestic banking system into the country's credit service, partly the population. Banks in Slovenia are losing their fundamental mission of lending the economy and national development. That's got two consequences. Firstly, it affects the development or underdevelopment of domestic banking, and secondly, the indebtedness of the Slovenian economy abroad. In 1994, the Slovenian private sector was in debt abroad with $841 million. By the end of 2000, this debt was already $3,453 million or $3.5 billion. In 2000, the flow of loans rented by companies abroad increased by about 40 percent, from about 46 billion to 69.5 billion tolars. Of course, the country or the public sector also owes it abroad. Instead of encouraging foreign direct investment, we are in debt abroad with loans that will need to be repaid in the future. Such a policy leads us more and more along the path we once walked in the former SFRY. At the beginning of this week, when the Prime Minister answered our questions, he gave us some comfort when he said that we Slovenians were in debt or in debt to the people of the former United States, because this was also the case, developed and strong countries are in debt. Of course, because of the Institute itself, we did not have the opportunity to reply to the Prime Minister that it is not possible to compare two million Slovenia with our potential with the United States. Also from the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, we have been able to hear the sound of warnings on several occasions, and I quote that there are no firm limits when there is a market sense of which the country is in danger of being indebted and has too many deficits in public cash registers. If we had translated this into a more understandable language, we would have heard a rather alarming warning from the former first man of the central bank that we had already crossed the border. It is also worrying that when we adopt the state budget for this year, we do not have actual data on the real indebtedness of the state budget and the public sector. In the budgetary memorandum, the government tells us that the worst pressures on the state budget will not come until 2002. On the one hand, we were happy with this sincere recognition, and on the other hand, we can be very concerned. In 2002, Slovenia should be qualified to be a member of the European Union. At that time, however, the government is predicting the main pressures or problems with the state budget. We have also been able to learn from the newspapers that our new finance minister has, in these days, been in charge of some 450 million euros in foreign bonds, which will have to be repaid in 10 years, that is, in 2011. We also read something that was written as a thank-you note that the lenders for these bonds have just scratched. It is necessary to ask what was the reason that interest was so great. I guess that was a very nice thing to do. Which, of course, means that more will have to be paid in the future. We are also wondering what is the point of deciding on the 2001 budget of the National Assembly, when the government is not ready to give us or does it not seem important to Members to know the amount of financial debts to foreign and domestic lenders, the repayment deadlines and the conditions for returning such loans for the next medium-term period or for the period for which it rented them. For some serious decision-making, this precise information would certainly be needed by everyone, whether we are members of the opposition or the government coalition. At the time of this year's budget and also the budget implementation law, we can only learn that the government needs from the National Assembly the power to repay $229 billion, which is about 2.2 billion of German marks, for the needs of the state budget to repay with new loans of the old and additionally or netly for 56.6 billion or for a good half billion of German marks. Last year, the government asked for a budget debt of about 100 billion tolars, so much in comparison; now this number is different. At the same time, the government still requires the National Assembly to grant guarantees and guarantees of about 140 billion to public law and about 70 billion tolls to other domestics. In doing so, it does not tell anyone who intends to give the public legal entities and other locals 210 billion tolars - almost 2 billion German marks - these guarantees or loans. At the same time, we do not know whether the State is acting as a subsidiary or as a direct guarantor in granting such guarantees. Of course, this concealment of the country's financial indebtedness or indebtedness is not the only information block we have encountered in preparation for the budgetary debate. When we wanted to obtain official information on the rent of the last loan for ten years, which I talked about earlier, by selling euro bonds on the London market, the finance minister ordered the chief of his cabinet to provide only those data that we could read in the media anyway, and it said how these bonds had been seized, and not why. In fact, before this decision, the National Assembly knows very little how much the State and the whole public sector owes domestic suppliers, in addition to the fact that the issue of the actual situation of debt abroad is also open. For the last three years, we have authorised budgetary consumers to assume payment obligations in the coming years through the law on the implementation of the budget. And we didn't count that as a budget deficit. Although they are a social democratic party, as well as New Slovenia, they have been working since the middle of last year to reach the right amount of such debt - we have also tried this in the time of the government of Dr. Bajuk - we cannot reach this data, not in this budgetary treatment. Even this complication, which was here at the beginning, shows that some things are not quite clear. The rapporteur, whom we received as basic material for this debate, stated on the pages since 2407 that the obligation to cover this year's budget from last year is about 126 billion. Then it was said that it was a mistake in the information system and that it was only for a few more than 46 billion. Even if this number is real, it's big. This should include some 23 billion tolars, which the government has admitted that it did not include in the budget for last year, in order to appear to have remained within the budget deficit planned. At the same time, in those days, we were able to hear from those who are more closely accompanying the Ministry of Transport, both at the hearing and at the committees, that by the end of 2000, this ministry has assumed commitments or by the end of 2000, which are already behind us, already in respect of budgetary capacity in 2002. It is said that obligations have been spent and assumed for this year and for the following year in this ministry already last year. The programme for the construction and financing of motorways is to be considered by the National Assembly once in the future, although it would be normal to get to know basic data when the budget is being considered. In this debate on the Committees, we have not even been able to know how much of the gas toll is actually about the construction of motorways, despite the issues raised by the Members. Some informal information suggests that only 52% of the projected money collected from the gas toll is actually for the purpose for which these funds are collected. It is no wonder, therefore, that such construction delays are such. For at least three years now, at the time of the adoption of the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget in this National Assembly, we note that the Government is obliged to prepare new development programmes because we do not implement the new ones already adopted, despite the ones enshrined in the laws. The Ministry of Finance always stresses in these presentations that programmes are adopted that cannot be serviced. However, even though this is a commitment, it is said that new development programmes are being prepared, this government has not fulfilled this commitment, although it is also enshrined in the adopted Public Finance Act last year. For the next three years, after 2001 or until the adoption of new development programmes, the government has offered to help us with this debate or to adopt only so-called indicative programmes. The National Assembly should once again give Bianca the power not only to the government, as it has been in the past two years, when the government has been able to decide freely here, but this time to individual budgetary users to assume commitments for the following years up to 70% in the 2001 budget for the envisaged investments, investment investments, investment transfers. If there is a change after these committee discussions, the Ministry of Finance has argued in the debate that it has proposed a significantly lower percentage, then this will be a major step forward. The Slovenian Coalition proposed that this amount should be limited to 35% and that this would force the government to move through or present to the National Assembly as soon as possible new development programmes that would take into account real financial opportunities. After all that has been said, however, the greatest proof is that there is not yet sufficient willingness in the executive branch to reveal to the national assembly or to the public the problems that arise this year in the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget for this year, which are contrary to the law on public finances, which is the basic law here. However, something more about this in the debate under the next item, because unfortunately this debate, at the expense of its quality, is broken down into two parts. To summarise the figures we have received for this debate, it is clear that most of the resources in this budget will be earmarked for the servicing of the state administration, which will obviously continue to be botched. It is clear that, despite the commitments made in the law adopted two years ago, in this budget they do not have the resources for more coherent regional development. It is clear that the priorities that have been consistently highlighted in theory are that we will invest in knowledge and development in this budget, covered to a very modest extent and in scope, and that the budget consists primarily of two foundations. The first is an attempt to somehow patch up the holes that have occurred in previous years, especially in the last five years, when we have accumulated the budget deficit with various spells, which are difficult to translate into English, from the budget implementation law. The second basis on which this budget is built is coalition trading and coordination, where one can see which party in this coalition is stronger and which has chosen more resources for its area. The warnings I have given in this debate and in the views of the Group until this year's budget speak for themselves that the Social Democratic Party for the adoption of this year's budget does not intend to share responsibility or cannot participate in this responsibility if the budget is adopted in the content and extent proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, her position will be presented by counterpart Feri Horvat, followed by a presentation by counterpart Kebric. My friend Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u44	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ministers, representatives and representatives of the government and others present. In the Joint Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this draft budget, which we have before us, is a complementary proposal, better than the original proposal, and far from ideal. It is only the fact that we accept it when one third of the calendar year is thus due to expire that the budget cannot be optimal. However, we believe that, in view of all the circumstances in which the budget was created and given the conditions that set out its content to a large extent, its composition is both on the revenue side and, above all, on the expenditure side, that this is a fairly sound budget, even though we in our parliamentary group, given our programming priorities and under the coalition contract, would like to have or see a better budget. Given that it is better to have an ideal budget than not to have a budget, we will support it and we will accept it as soon as possible today. Allow me, even though the budget is a serious matter, a little perhaps a wicked or humorous parable. The 2001 budget seems like a bride you're courting, and you expect a lot from her when you get to know her, you become critical, you have a lot of comments on her, but you take her to the altar and you breathe the fateful yes. The fact is, when we assess the budget for this year, that the government and the coalition have, in an extremely short time, in less than two months, drawn up a draft budget for this year. This is after the previous government has not actually been able to accept the final accurate assessments of the implementation of the budget last year. I would like to remind you of the "spatters," if I may say so, between the finance ministry or the minister and the prime minister and the government. Accurate data on the implementation of the budget are one important basis for the preparation of a good budget for the following year. Secondly, the rapid preparation of the draft budget has enabled a thorough, although for many, detailed, coalition agreement. However, for a short time, frankly, the time available for the preparation of the budget has, of course, made it difficult to negotiate coalitionly, but this has also, according to my assessment or our assessment, been a solid success. Third time, which is especially important. The content of the draft budget for this year and the implementation of agreed programming guidelines or priorities has been strongly influenced by the extremely unpleasant legacy of the previous year or, more precisely, past years. Let me just remind you of four factors. Firstly, an increasing proportion, over 80% of the budget, is already predetermined in advance, is fixed in terms of laws, programmes and previous commitments. Secondly, commitments from the previous year amounting to around 23 billion represent almost 2% of the proposed budget. To a large extent, they are narrowing the space for an active economic policy, which we are also committed to, including regional development and other matters this year. That's a fact. In addition, the nominal increase in individual items, which are priority given these back-up commitments, means that, in the best case scenario, they will be guaranteed equal resources. But this is an objective fact. The next major overloads that have already been discussed here, if I recall the information we have in the supplementary proposal, that only in the Ministry of Transport and the links of these overloads are 15 billion, or an item that is particularly interesting for all of us, Members and Members of the public, for the area of roads 12.5 billion. This is about as much as the funds foreseen in the budget for these purposes this year. In fact, there is no room for manoeuvre so that, despite great needs, the funds for this could be increased. Let me mention last year's specificity, which has had a major impact on this year's budget. We had three governments, so to speak. We had elections with budgetary implications. Of course, this means putting out accounts for last year's event this year, not to mention natural disasters that have also demanded their own. All of this and what else were the sharp restrictions for the government and coalition partners that the 2001 draft budget could not objectively achieve the priority orientations of the coalition contract, or the desired degree of achievement. I would like to point out that the first ministers' proposals were estimated at a billion 450 million tolars, which would cause more than 7% of the deficit, which would, of course, be unacceptable. Thus we have, as has already been said, before us a kind of sanitation transitional budget, with acceptable global frameworks and to a large extent or at least partially implemented development guidelines under the coalition treaty. Here I am referring to the total volume growing in line with the growth of gross domestic product, the proportion comparable to or better than the number of countries [[Not because the Prime Minister said so, but we have data available in many domestic and foreign materials]] and a 1% deficit, which is smaller than last year and is not alarming - I would rather see that it is not, but it is a reality - and is lower than in a number of European Union countries. The legitimate and normal question that we have asked ourselves is to what extent the draft budget follows the Memorandum and the Coalition Treaty. We are aware of the problems that have been raised in committee discussions, that there are insufficient resources for some important priority purposes, for the economic, social and, in particular, more equitable development of this country, and that changes in these key areas will have to take place in the next budget and in the following budgets. Let me just list them: the area of rationalisation of the operation of the country; the area of exports - the fact is that payment-balance-of-payment movements, especially if we are looking at the trend, and the relationship between external debt and reserves, even if we are looking at the trend and already absolute numbers, are far from satisfactory, and that there will be a need for further reinforcement - and this is being sought in the budget and also in the law on the implementation of the budget, the role of the Slovenian exporting company; the role of strengthening market activities and promotion abroad, both for tourism and for export and foreign investment and other activities. Further, additional measures will be needed to attract foreign investment, as foreign direct investment on a common scale and even if we look at the trend after years, we cannot be satisfied with them.The restructuring of critical and potentially critical industries, from textiles, leather, the food industry, steel, which is under way, and other activities will need to be stepped up. There will be a need to increase the means to increase competitiveness, technological development, which is foreseen in the budget to a certain extent, but not to a sufficient extent. And, of course, give more emphasis to the development of entrepreneurship, tourism and rural development. There will be a need to increase funding and to improve organisation for more coherent regional development. This is still one of the weakest points of this budget and even economic policy. This is also recalled by the latest human development report, which we certainly know well. Let me finish with just two more questions. Firstly, we believe that the proposed budget should be adopted as soon as possible and implemented as soon as possible, in particular for the implementation of economic, social, educational and other programmes, so that calls can be made as soon as possible and that potential beneficiaries can obtain funds and implement programmes, although in reduced form, in view of the late adoption of the budget. Secondly, which seems particularly important to us and I would like to stress this for the conclusion as soon as possible, we need to start with professionally demanding and also politically demanding preparations for the next year's budget or better said for the next two years, at least for the next two years, this is a real flight, which is the goal of somehow final readiness to join the European Union. In doing so, I think it is particularly important that before the finance ministry and the government draw up the figures, the draft budget to agree on the strategic orientations of economic, social and other policies. Secondly, to define or quantify the scope and composition of investments and their priorities, as the Public Finance Act requires, but not to discuss and lobby this only after we already have the draft budget on the table. Thirdly, it will be necessary to gather the will, colleagues and colleagues, both from the position and from the opposition and, of course, the government, to finally put on the table what we say every year, but never again, the development programmes, the Tolar laws and others, and to face this with real, possible financial frameworks in the coming years, and to effectively avoid the increasing debt and the poor will of citizens and citizens, as well as us, because it is not possible to simply put all the programmes into annual budgets, because they are foreshadowed. Finally, a very important issue, even more decisively and more quickly, must be pursued or continued by rationalising the organisation of the state administration and taking more account of the syntagma that was recorded years ago in Slovenia's economic development strategy, so that Slovenia will strive to have a slim state administration when it comes to integration and preparation for the European Union. This is called effective and rational. Of course, that is why the primary responsibility of the government and the government coalition will be, but also the same as the opposition, all Members and Members, because we are both willing or reluctantly double-minded. For such or other reasons. For the time being, we advocate that the budget is balanced, that it is as low as possible, that it is as low as possible. In the same breath, and this is also happening at the current budget, we are making good amendments to increase individual items. Of course, such a budget cannot be made. That is why more responsibility is needed in this respect than I have concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u46	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and others present! We have carefully examined the draft budget for this year in our parliamentary group. We have found that the basis for each and also this budget is a framework. Who's the propellant? We found out he was ordered by the cost side. On the other hand, we found that the income side couldn't cover everyone, not just the desire, but the needs of individual resources. That is why, of course, a deficit occurs and this deficit has been identified for many years. This deficit does not only mean that it will have to be returned, but it means that if we get foreign loans for it, we will also pay interest. If the loans are indeed rational and so directed to speed up the economy and to generate, as such, income from which they will be able to recover them, however, the conclusion is that the interest in any case represents an outflow of domestic accumulation. If we look at these commitments if we do not approach, if we are not already in this budget, at least in the future, that this deficit will be reduced, it means that our grandchildren, perhaps even our grandchildren, will pay what we owe them today and in similar budgets. She ordered, as I said, a cost page. However, this is how we have thought in our parliamentary group, first of all going to the income side. We believe that the revenue side is optimistic, but we argue that this optimism is also realistic if we adopt a wide range of laws, if necessary or mainly comply with the legal provisions that the government, the specific Ministry of Finance, already at its disposal. I claim and, Mr. Minister, I also told your predecessor behind this pay phone that money is lying on the road. It is necessary to organise the collection of this money. We also said, and with our finger, we can show where this money is to be collected. Let's just remember a few of these things. Grey economy, the results of the law we have adopted to prevent the black economy or work in black and so on. We all know that the grey economy in our country is quite high, far above the average of Europe. If we want to join Europe and the European Union puts the conditions for admission, including the reduction of inflation and the rest, then we, from the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired, place our Group of Members in a serious approach to reducing the grey economy. So we're going to create a nice lift, specifically, like a real saying, two flies at a time. For the first time, we will receive more contributions and taxes to the state treasury, and for the second time, by preventing or reducing the grey economy, we will allow the creation of new jobs and the relationship between employees and the unemployed will, of course, be made clear to us that the pensioners have changed too much, absolutely quickly, become more favourable and less need for the state budget to make up for what is necessary for the Ministry of Labour, the family and the social policy to be transferred from the state budget. Let me invite you, Mr Minister, to organise as little tax evasion as possible so that there is as little chance of finding solutions in marriage holes as possible, as easily as possible what we read every week in newspapers, who, in what way, for how many millions, and even billions of dollars, has brought our country around. See what happened to games, illegal gambling, "catch the cash," what happened to Zdenex, what happened to Dadas and so on. That's the money we're telling you to pick it up. Where are the findings or findings when the criminal police seized all those red tape records showing how much individuals received interest at the expense of their loans but did not pay taxes or income from them? Since time limits me, I will specifically turn to the following. We support the regulation of this budget in an effort to give priority to projects. We are for indexation for a simple reason, because indexation requires that we make as much use of available resources as possible to get as much in the future budget as possible. Whether those funds - the benefits are always rational or not - does not matter when indexing. We also believe that there is no real reason to talk about the budget's framework, that it is actually increasing by 8.9%, while the increase in gross social product is only foreseen by 4.5%. This difference is not only per year but we are very critical of it. We also have a special consideration for projects. Projects can not only be welcome, but they are essential for us to look at their economy, economics and different attitudes. What helps us with the project to anticipate certain funds in the budget, while we must be aware that, under our constitution and laws, it is possible to block such a project. The consent of the tenants. What helps us with the project and the planned resources in the state budget, if the residents or if I go a little wider, for example. The local communities shall not give their consent. We want some of these letters received from various mayors and so on, various lobbying, for this project, provide funds in the budget. What's going on? When we went to take a look, three congregations simply disagree with the route presented. This route has already provided for certain financial resources in the project. If now, given that local communities do not agree to seek a new route, a new idea will, of course, be a different financial structure or cost if I simplify it. On the other hand, I condemn that some of us too, I will involve myself, we will sit on certain lobbyes and we are largely too local. Local communities simply say, we will give agreement for the location, provided you do this connection for us, to cariculate, as well as this sidewalk at national costs or in the context of the highway program. When we look at these projects, we are for them, we are for attitude, but we will not agree with the specified budgetary resources in advance if the project is not all, when we say, arranged to have all the permits. In doing so, we will also be critical that architects will not only be setting up their monuments, but that, in the context of our options, we will be able to afford, given the level of the social product per capita, what we can afford in these circumstances. We're worried about the expense. Let us fall only on the fact that this budget is not sufficiently developed. In doing so, we must at least read some other foreign literature and one thing is what the state or through the state budget must ensure development, and the other is what our company, as such, must invest in development, not all of them waiting for this bowl from the state budget, not only such and other institutions, but also such and other institutions, who are waiting for this loving country to be saved. Who's the state? We're all citizens of the country. Mainly, we have the responsibility for the budget, and we have all the right, not the duty to look at how tax money benefits as well. I was talking about development. Now it's a very important area: pay. Why are all the indices in this budget, show me a more important index below 13%. Inflation is predicted to be 7.8 or 6, or it'll be 9, not that important. It will either be if something special doesn't happen on the world market or in the global economy, probably below 8%. Why, Mr Minister, the public sector's wages have already increased by 3.6% since 1 January to all the same cocoons, and then further differ, let's leave what someone has progressed from one class to a higher class by law, but also the rest, for one or another peace. In this public sector, wages have increased and indices show how they will increase. I am not simplifying because we are aware that there is also a need to increase the number of jobs, and on the other hand, we wonder where and how you will stimulate greater productivity, higher quality of work, for the same amount to do more work or, in other words, to modernise the opportunity to do more work at the same amount, simplified, as everyone understands and understands: to increase public sector productivity. When we talk about productivity in production, we have all the data. I apologize to you, colleagues and colleagues, that I do not give you all the numbers here, but if anyone is interested in proving my claims to him, I have collected, as it is called, materials and data, so that I can serve everyone and argue with numbers what I am saying. If, in this public sector, a respected Minister, the former, former Minister of Economic Affairs, pardon, Minister of Economy, had acquired computers that were still lying there today and that they would still be needed in schools and if they had been obtained, they would have been put in motion on the second day, as we say. For years, what has been the beneficial value of squeamish radars? That was a nice project. But how we're going to look at these things, I was talking about them in the first place. That is why we will keep an eye on this budget in our Group of Members, both on the income and on the expenditure side. On the other hand, in the committee, I'm sorry, this is a commission for the supervision of public finances without magnifying glass or a small-eye view, we'll see things that go a little wrong or when something tries to be used in a legal or even more illegal way. It's an inflation problem. Inflation depends mainly on two factors. One is our internal order and direction, and the other is indeed the environment of the world market. If oil is so high, we really have less leverage, but still something. It is true that in one more developed country, with a double social product on the head of the population compared to us, this obviously affects inflation less than we do. However, we believe that the second aggregate of inflation is wages. As I mentioned earlier about salaries, in our Group of Members we absolutely do not agree that we too have simply risen to our Members and to all those who are associated with the numbers or otherwise on our Members' salaries. Why did you not simply save this increase to regulate wages in the public sector because they are major anomalies? We agree with the initiative and the demands, not only of trade unions, but also of others, that it is essential in our country to increase both the starting and the minimum wages and all other, but to a certain extent, to a certain extent. We could hold back without freezing wages from a certain amount forward, but simply retaining, which is a slightly more sympathetic word, and the term is virtually the same, until further, to settle with this reserve that we would thus create, the correction says those relations that are nice or specifically referred to as an anomaly in the public sector. The increase in wages from indices arising from the public sector, but we need to know that from the state budget - I say round - supplies or pays more than 33,000 employees. It is said that now that we are following all developments in our political and economic field, we are already seeing new demands from one, the other and the third. Everyone compares to the highest. Why don't we stop the tall ones a little bit and get a shot at fixing the lowest ones? To conclude - because time haunts me - the following. All these arguments, which I have presented on behalf of our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, have their weight. When we examine what will happen if we give the government a correctional test that we do not accept this budget today and will have to submit a new one, what will happen, what will be the greater harm to this country, not to a specific segment of the population, to that country, if we continue to finance after temporary or after twelve, what would be. Will this not be more damaging than this budget has been adopted despite all these concerns? When we put this on the table, we are just studying, and after this study, our Group of Members will decide how we will vote on this budget. We, once again, as we will decide today, will require that for the future budget be ours, not only requirements, not only what is written also due to our thanks in this Treaty or to the coalition partners' agreement, but we will focus on coming a day with austerity measures from another sphere, but not just from the sphere with which you started or started together, in particular, with the pension law, whose amendment of the 150th article gave such a reconciliation of pensions as the social sphere, the children's allowance, the difference or the amount of social contributions that I now say around, from 24 to 37,000, all this has moved forward. Savings started in the social sector. Show us and tell us where the other austerity measures are, not the ones you were forced to take, because there was simply no budget for temporary financing, but the rest. This is what we demand on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members, and this is what citizens expect. Once this is resolved, we will also implement and improve our image, the authority of the National Assembly as legislator. Thank you to all those who have listened attentively.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. A colleague of Saša Pecé has the floor to present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'll avoid the pay phone myself because it's too much material and the speaker's desk is too small. In essence, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to express my surprise that only one minister and minister are present in this debate, with such an important act as the budget. This shows the attitude of the Slovenian government towards this act, which Mr Drnovšek presented to us earlier and 10 days ago as the most important act. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u49	You have the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u50	May I continue, or will you call them?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u51	Here you go, of course!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u52	On behalf of a serious interview, I must say that we do not believe in the Slovenian National Party that money is lying on the road; it is a little too strong and too important to just collect it. However, let me go to the substantive part of the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Not long ago, when one of the representatives of liberal democracy told a story about visiting a housewife on the market and that he could only buy as much as he had in his wallet. So, this basic starting point, for example, for the financing of specimens, institutions or countries, was violated at the moment we received the state budget proposal with deficits. We have come to the point where this country is simply going to spend more than it has spent all these years. She just spends more than she expects. And if this is a good trip for next generation and next year - I don't think so. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that this is a very bad journey. The basis for the preparation of the budget should be the equivalent between revenue and expenditure in order to demonstrate stability. This would not only be shown abroad, what the government has been trying to do and is a priority for it, but rather to show stability in this country for those people living from this budget, for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With a slow transition to the budget memorandum, that is to say, the act with which the government, let's say, armed us and presented the success story, which in fact continues somehow from the independence ahead and once again shows us how the next year will be, what will be in three, four years' time. The expected coefficients in the budgetary memorandum itself also show the country's high projected performance rate. But on what account? On account of the debt? On the basis of the fact that we do not create production in Slovenia, that the production factor is still negative, and that only the number of different non-productive agencies set up by this government is increasing? No! No! In this way, Slovenians will not create a better future for this country. As Prime Minister of Slovenia, Mr Drnovšek, 6. 3. In 2001, he said that the target of 1% of the deficit is that it will actually be achieved through extraordinary revenues from concessions for mobile technology or third-generation concessions. I would like to identify myself to this projected source of revenue, which we are already reminding you today that this country will not receive this year. If Slovenia is to take this type of income seriously, it would first need a law on concessions. All local communities, or much of the local communities, express the need to do so, even though they face smaller concessions. But when you talk about the country and the concession speech in the most important area or area that you somehow compare with the European area, do not do so. But you assume that one concession will go without the conditions necessary for the concession. There's further talk of investments. Investments in this country, for which the first man of this country, Mr Drnovšek, speaks or says that they will remain at about the same level as they were last year. I quote from his speech: "And based on the investments that will remain in the equivalent, this country and their ministers are planning growth." What kind of growth, based on what? Investments are the basis for any new growth. Are you going to increase economic development on the basis of social benefits? On what grounds? I mentioned earlier that it seems to us that achieving a better standard at the expense of borrowing makes no sense, because every debt we commit ourselves to will have to be paid at some point and not only to the extent that we receive it, but also to the extent that it will be charged with interest. So, even in this part, let's say planning the Slovenian budget, unfortunately we can't believe, because of the experience of the past years, when the state budget was essentially made up of one and the same people. It's always the same thing. The result is here today: from the unemployment rate, to the production factor, to the accession of the European Union. In short, I'm rolling all over the place we've been until recently. As a citizen of a single country, I am also deeply disturbed by the attempt to show statistics through another dimension and to try to show statistics in coefficients that apply in foreign countries. The unemployment rate in Slovenia can be calculated. But because the indicator is higher than other standards that apply abroad, the government shows us the unemployment rate according to the ILO standard. Why? Who does he want to have an affair with? Ambassador? We know in advance how someone will vote. Even before today's debates. We all know what fate will do with the amendments. No! No! But to wash his own conscience with thought, because we have less unemployment than some want to show us, he gives us data that comes or that are measurable abroad, so-called foreign standards, ILO standards. About planned economic growth. Of course, there are also different opinions of economists. There are different views here, too. However, we cannot agree in any way in the Slovenian National Party. Unfortunately, we also do not agree that economic growth is possible to increase Thank you. [[...]] That economic growth can be increased in such a way that it does not deal with economic instruments. And we are coming to that basic question in this country, which is also the focus of the budget. I quote: "The 2001 budget includes the government as one of the main objectives of the large-scale privatisation programme." Privatization of state property! In the Slovenian National Party, we ask this government, within the framework of regular points, initiatives and the question of the Minister of Finance on the privatisation of Slovenian banking. About the privatisation of the Maribor and Ljubljana Bank. Since January and all the following regular meetings we have not received data on the calculation of domestic absorption power, which is the basis for privatisation. How do you hope to talk about privatisation, the income from this title, if you do not have basic data? You don't hope to give it, or I don't know why you won't give it. The same question was asked three times. Not a word, not a ghost. At the 5th regular meeting of the Slovenian National Party, we also discussed now the modern privatisation of the SRD, which excludes social partners. The Slovenian government excludes trade unions from negotiations on the privatisation of the SRD. Why? Because they're fighting for workers' rights. That's the only reason. Because they are trying to privatise the SRD and those companies in which the state has its share, to privatise or protect that certain rehabilitations will be carried out to the end. That's the only reason the government won't think of them as their accomplice. Although, as a result, the government's proposal will carry more than 2,000 new unemployed people by calculation of all social partners. Doesn't matter here. We're playing with the fate of 9,500 people currently employed by the SRD. We're talking about the privatisation gap you're trying to fill. In this case, representatives of the government or government, consisting of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, said that the privatisation gap would be resolved by selling shares of electricity distributors within six months. There's a deadline out there. The way is wrong. So it's not true. A government consisting of a combined list that proposed or gave the word that they would fill a hole within three months. We've overstepped that deadline a few times. But before the elections, every promise is good. With banks and insurance companies, not SRDs. Another pre-election promise that has implications in the budget today. Further, the SLS+SKD, which promised 70 percent of the filling as soon as it came into power. There's a lie here, too. And DeSUS, who didn't want to define himself specifically and promised to fill in just a few months, probably because of the lack of experts. Let me comfort you. Nor would you be helped by such experts with promises made by other government parties that do not keep their promises. Unfortunately, all this has an impact on the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with the customers of this budget, which is reflected in all areas of life in our country, for which you must not forget that it is the only one we have. No matter what your aspirations are to join the European Union. Of course, you tried to limit the opposition's discussions on the budget to the new rules of procedure. We've come up with new rules. We have come to these rules when you have simply prevented a Member or a sending group from making proposals to amend a specific item. But despite the fact that you have raised that quota which specifically makes it impossible for me, Mr Barovic, Mrs Sonja, to make amendments on her own. To carry out the task she committed herself to to her constituents during the pre-election campaign, she gave the floor to try to do something about it. For your own home. For all those places in Slovenia where we took place just before the elections, we walked around all smiling and with great promises. But no. You made this impossible today, or a few days ago, when you adopted the rules of procedure. And the embroidery of who? On behalf of the Slovenian Government, which wants the draft budget, as it gives us in this form, also to be adopted by Members. Then there are those courageous individuals who hope to talk in here about how responsible we must be Members. All they ask of us is voices. But they don't allow us to co-create certain items. I'm not talking about general changes. But as a Member coming from a particular region, I will also try to do something for this region. I'm not ignoring the local communities as I am one of the speakers in front of me. I warn you, Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. Slovenia has just over 20,000 square kilometres. Slovenia must be taken full care of. This country doesn't do that. We will not support the Slovenian National Party of the draft budget in the form it is. It would make sense for the rest of you to think about the trends and trends in which this country is going. To the conclusion. Because I mentioned the inflation that the government blames exclusively for the situation around Slovenia; because of the rising prices of that raw material; because of the unemployment that the government is trying to show us on false or other ilo-data; because of the coefficients that the government is showing us in the budget memorandum that by 2006 we will all be beautiful and smiling and due to debt - these are the reasons why we will not support the budget. Let me conclude with Dr. Drnovška's quote of 6.3.2001 on the presentation of the budget: "The government has done its work quickly and, I think, also responsible." True, you quickly brought this country where it is today, with all the negative coefficients, with all the unemployment we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much, you fellow Pec. I give the floor to my colleague Janez Podobnik, who will present the views of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. He'll get the word "magic" after him. Janez Drobnič, who will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Allow me to briefly present our Group's views to the 2001 budget and also to the budgetary memorandum. Later, my fellow Members will be involved in the debate on some more detailed issues relating to individual content sets. In a relatively short period of time - this must be acknowledged - the government has drawn up a 2001 budget, especially on the fact that it was necessary to fully comply with the new public finances legislation. It is therefore important to point out here that the preparation of the budget in such a short time was a great deal of work, despite all the work. The budget and, in particular, the budgetary memorandum is always one of the key development documents in each country, which is some kind of state card, especially for the period for which it applies. So allow me to introduce to this performance a few thoughts written by Professor Loize Sočan in his professional article entitled "Commands for the Development of Slovenia in the Global Economy". That's what he says: "If, as a country, we are able to create, adopt and implement a long-term development agreement with a significantly greater development effort by all social partners than before, we will be among those moderately developed companies that will be able to accelerate the construction of a comprehensive material, intellectual, institutional and information infrastructure and the ever-fastening of entrepreneurial programmes, leaving technologically less demanding and intensive introduction of technology and innovation-intensive programmes with higher added value. The very consistency of these processes leads to the successful transformation of Slovenia into a developed society. The bearable role in this process will have to be played primarily by future governments and " - I underline! - "our country's future parliaments. So far, the development efforts of independent Slovenia have been reflected in the accelerated adaptation of our country's environment, to the systemic, macroeconomic and market standards of the European Union and to the developed world, which have been highlighted by the thesis on increasing openness and deregulation." And I now quote a paragraph that is more critical: "With the current policy, Slovenia is building a surviving form of capitalism, focusing on the property of material goods and neglecting ownership of less and less burdened global knowledge, without a vision of development and with too much opposition from the social partners, making it impossible for it to move between modern and effective consensus societies, which is essential for the developing of the most pervasive small countries of developed Central and Northern Europe. Therefore, these countries should become our model of modern development as soon as possible in terms of strategic development."the end of the quote. Here it is worth mentioning that, when mentioning the most pervasive small countries of developed Central and Northern Europe, the government, especially the finance sector, has in recent years been actively confronted and familiar with macro-fiscal and other solutions that Sweden has adopted in recent years in solving some of its public financial problems. Sweden saved them very well. I hope that this experience will also help the Slovenian government and the Slovenian financial sector. Allow me, in the second part of my performance, to briefly highlight some areas which, in the view of our group in the 2000 budget, are in need of special attention in relation to the budgetary memorandum. First of all, it's a government property sale program. Undoubtedly, one of the key political developments this year must take place with all the controls and with as much transparency as possible. It remains an open question whether the decision to have a public property sale programme run without a specific law was a good decision. Another emphasis, the issue of evenness, could be said to be balanced regional and other development of all regions and regions of Slovenia. In our party and in our Group of Members, we firmly believe that the balanced regional and future development of the country of Slovenia strengthens our country as a country and nation. Unfortunately, trends are not like that. The fact is that - I do not speak ill of course about the capital of Slovenia - but the cultural, administrative, economic, political, university and other developmental potentials of the central Slovenian region, which has its heart in the capital city of Ljubljana, are so strong that they have simply sucked up all the other many potentials that other regions have in Slovenia. This is becoming one of the key political and development issues of the modern Slovenian country. My fellow Member Kangler will discuss this subject later. The third issue, which relates to the real issue of the balanced regional development of Slovenia, is the constant concern for demographically endangered areas. Don't let that sound populism. On this point, it is important to draw attention to this issue: investment, education, different infrastructure systems, roads, telephones. It is a matter of quality of life in these areas. According to the Constitution, the State of Slovenia is obliged to take care of these areas. This question is linked to the question of how to treat municipalities, municipalities and municipal budgets. The debates in the National Assembly have put this area very far aside. Not because there are fewer mayors of Members, but it seems that it has slowly reached the belief that this is not an important developmental and other issue in Slovenia. It's important. We have 192 municipal budgets. We have 192 developmental ambitions. The composition of municipal budgets and the role of the state budget, especially through investments, is very important. The third element, which is linked to the balanced and balanced development of Slovenia, is infrastructure. The question is whether it was really clever enough, you might say, a quiet decision that too little of the pooled petrol tolar is intended to continue the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia. Not only because the construction of the highway cross is an additional stimulus for the even regional development of Slovenia, but also because this largest construction project in Slovenia is also the largest economic multiplier. Here, let us not forget the importance of other roads. Not just the freeway. Some areas in Slovenia are one that will never get motorway connections. The importance of railways is also increasing. The third area I would like to draw particular attention to is the importance of education. Not only to a question that has already been raised. That's not populism either. We want to complete the computerization of primary school students. We hope that some amendments have further improved some things. We note the importance of completion of investment projects in the field of primary education. At the same time, we stress that in these years, with all the expectations of ambition and knowledge, there are generations of secondary schoolchildren ahead of us. We hope that the state budget will be such that it will allow all schoolchildren the best choice, their personal satisfaction and the satisfaction of our families. Because the right decision for high school is one key choice for every young person. Then there's higher education. Trends are positive. Nevertheless, the country's concern also through the state budget is that of the country's direction on the issue of higher education. We also hope that there will be a different benchmark, that it will only be an incentive for better work and that there will be no organisational and other problems in some unimaginable solutions. Fourth time. We support the direction that is particularly evident from the performance of the Prime Minister when he presented the budgetary memorandum. In fact, the country's greater incentive for various forms of health protection. We don't talk about this much in this place. The increase or increase in the life expectancy of our citizens and citizens should remain the constant concern of Slovenian politics, the Slovenian government and parliament. The country has those mechanisms that it has. We only have one life. Let us do our utmost to increase the life span of all of us. That is why we will also discuss and decide in our parliamentary group with all sensitivity those amendments that have been prepared in this context: a paediatric clinic, an oncology institute - if I may at least mention these two. However, the government has already addressed the issue of the Oncology Institute well in the updated draft budget. Fifth: agriculture and rural development. In our client, it's always kind of automatic to take care of agriculture. Mistake! The issue of agriculture and the development of the Slovenian countryside is a key national development priority for this country, this government and this national assembly. The key question remains. How to properly prepare Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmer to survive the tough conditions of the European Union? It's an eminent developmental issue. It is also a matter of the future of the Slovenian countryside. In our party we are convinced that Slovenia needs a long-term development agreement that will contain an internal consensus to solve demographic, energy, educational, environmental and other problems. Let there also be a memorandum and a budget step in this direction. And the third part of my debate is one that is, as a rule, an integral part of every classic debate on state budgets. When we followed how this is happening around the world, there were always two groups. One says that taxes should be increased and the other that they should be reduced. So, in the last part of my debate, I'm going to touch on this important issue, this is tax issues. The issue of taxes is also the relationship between the state and citizens as taxpayers. I will briefly assess some of the developments in this area. According to the web of events, the global fiscal ratios of last year were good in 2000. Some also estimate that they were such that we can say very good things to them. Last year was one of those years where there was a real possibility that 2000 would not be a year of budget deficit at all. The fact is that in last year's gross domestic product has grown nominally by about three percentage points more than anticipated. There are several causes; one is undoubtedly a higher rate of growth; the other, unfortunately, also higher inflation. However, higher inflation sometimes has positive results, in the footnotes. According to the gross national budget, expenditure from the budget has fallen significantly, even by one percentage point. But what happened? Surprisingly, the public financial revenues decreased by two percentage points, mainly or almost exclusively due to the loss of value added tax revenues. It was shown that the introduction of the value added tax of the year before was successful, but by error: the revenue from the value added tax was significantly lower than the turnover tax. That wasn't supposed to happen. Is that supposed to be the case? That's another question. Therefore, it is becoming increasingly evident that the tax rates applied to the value added were too low. This is precisely what opens up some important public financial dilemmas. I'll only mention three. Firstly: Will the reform of direct taxes lead to an increase in the share of these taxes in all taxes? That wouldn't be the right direction. This would mean, in particular, a greater burden on the economy. Second: In what way should the work be burdened with tax? If I mention the tax on salaries paid, which is now a very large budget. As we say to the economist in particular, it would be good to eliminate it. However, this does not seem possible at the current low rates of value added tax. And the third dilemma: What about income? In income, where there is a strong progression. The highest tax rate, we all know, is high. What is the role of the social element in income and tax policy in particular, and what is the role of dry economic efficiency? It is clear from the proposed budget and in particular from the budget memorandum that this year the government did not bite on this most sensitive issue and covered the public financial deficit with extraordinary revenues such as concessions. In the coming year or years, there will be another, much more difficult path, with two possibilities. The first is the reform of direct taxes, and this also means a reduction in the share of public expenditure, perhaps even to a degree close to 40%. On the other hand, the increase in the value added tax is based on a substantial consideration of some height. However, it will take great courage and consistency for both paths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. He will present the views of the New Slovenia Group, after which he will receive the word Cyril Pucko to present the views of the LDS Group. You have the floor, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u56	Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the government and other guests present in the Chamber. Allow me to give an opinion on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 by the New Slovenia Group. The government has therefore submitted a budget for 2001, a budget memorandum and also a sales programme for state property. The New Slovenia Group has decided not to support the budget submitted to the extent that it is and in such a structure as it is. When I heard the debaters before me, the coalitions and partly the opposition, I didn't really know who actually prepared this budget for 2001. A is a programme of liberal democracy but it is a programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's not possible to get rid of the impression that it's a single-party program. That's just the impression I got. We have heard many times from government representatives that this budget is development-oriented. If we look at it in detail, its structure, the scope of the funds, we find that it is not true that it lacks developmental orientation. What we have before us is a worse attempt to rehabilitate public finances. This is the fact that we have a problem with public finances, but we have not yet taken a clear look at this issue and faced it. Therefore, it is also necessary to have a corrosive and, of course, frankness, transparency. I will list some reasons why Nova Slovenija will not support this budget. First, let me mention the budget deficit. This has been growing for several years, and it will also increase this year. The deficit itself as such probably wouldn't even be a problem. Mr Drnovšku - the last time I asked him a question - is also partly right. It's a problematic trend. It's content that's problematic. The next problem is that it is not clear how much of this deficit is and that there are still some hidden holes. Thus, the government does not show a real deficit, but by means of accounting operations and hidden budget periods it is artificially reducing it. Let me tell you a significant fact. When we listened to a government representative on investment for the National Assembly in committee, she replied that this plan of funds for this year is just as it is. However, we must be aware that most of this money will be about something that has been done in the past year. That's what actually worries me that there are IDs everywhere that are problematic. I trust my colleague very much because she's a good financial expert. From the table we found that these overloads are practically another planned deficit. The next thing you know, it's the country's debt. Also, as Mr Drnovšek said, there is no problem with the level of indebtedness. I'll tell you again, the trend is problematic. The trend is problematic, the rate of growth. This year's debt increases by 37%, almost 230 billion tolars. Since 1994, external debt has grown from 52 billion to 508 billion tolars. It's trend. In addition, the problem is: Why are these funds being used to borrow from foreign lenders? This was also highlighted by experts. If I were to pursue development incentives in the technological development economy, which would increase exports, I would also be less critical and I would approve of this. Because that's impossible to detect, of course, I disagree. Take a look at the individual items, so that the indices do not mislead you, some of the items of the Ministry of Economic Affairs from the past year to this year. You need to look a year earlier, or you need to look at the planned funds. Then you get the right view. By the way, the Slovenian Economic Promotion Office and foreign investment. You can look at the index. The index is only on employees' salaries and about 140% and material costs. For those serious incentives alone, the index is below 100. The poor health status of public finances also shows an increase in the obligation to pay foreign debt. This one has grown tremendously this year. If it is to believe in a budget memorandum, I believe - on the side, I think 27 - the government has been predicting the so-called dry years since 2002 onwards, because more of these claims, these questions, will come. The questions, of course, are always, you have to ask them what they are, why, what have we got, what have we made of them? Due to inadequate financial policy, the private sector has been growing recently. The private sector is in debt abroad. If I were in charge of development incentives, technological development, changes and restructuring, I would say once again: okay. Since this is not because, above all, spending on wages is not appropriate. Why are we primarily in debt abroad? This also points to an inappropriate interest rate policy in our country to seek funds abroad. I don't know why we'll have Slovenian banks then. They obviously don't perform their functions. This is primarily the responsibility of those in charge of this policy. As far as I know, our banks are in the hands of the state. Investment programs. Investment programmes can be either development-oriented or not. What it is is mostly a patching hole. Now I will not make special investments in the public sector in order to provide good public sector services, either in education. We know we have some problems there. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the government has tabled a law imposing a deadline for the implementation of a new education system in primary school because there are neither human resources nor material conditions. It is also about what policy we are leading to foreign investment. We're a closed state. That's a fact. It's kind of a clause. A clausuristic state, I'd call it. Since we are thus closed, most of the resources, especially for infrastructure, basic infrastructure, must be taken from the budget. This, of course, causes problems. Since the country is a large and broader owner of state property, what is supposed to be on the market, namely the market sector, we need to provide additional funds in order to restructure and treat these finances, which are, or treat these companies, which are also politically directed. This exhausts public finances. If we opened, we would also have more resources for infrastructure, we would not need to be in debt, we would have more roads, we would have better roads, we could build a highway cross, etc. What if it happens to income like it did in the year before? Just a moment, please! It's not time for the noon lunch yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u57	Good. I won't consider this an invasion of privacy. Then you'll keep your mouth shut about what it said. Comrade Petty Officer, I'm sorry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. So, let me get on with it. Last year's "discharge" on financial revenues amounted to about 38 billion. I wonder how true and dignified and possibly planned this year's budget or this year's revenue is in the budget. You might say, "We didn't know exactly what the value added tax was." However, this may also occur on another segment of financial revenue. What if that happens? But then we'll say "case." An additional 0.8% of the additional deficit. Of course it's skepticism. I will not blame it further, but since this budget is actually working the same government, it is also fitting to ask. The following is: What if it happens that state property, for example, will not be sold? Good, since we have not adopted a special law and Members will probably not block the government from being burdened and thrown under wheels if it already characterises us. What if the government sells this property? What if everything doesn't get paid or not paid this year? We'll be back with an additional deficit. Otherwise, the sale of state-owned companies also indicates that we have mismanaged - because it is imperative to sell it now - that we have been relatively poorly controlled so far and that we have a millstone behind us. We have to do this, we have to do this this year. I wonder what we will do in the coming years, what we will be selling to fill this hole in the coming years. I hope that the development impulse will be so strong that it will not be necessary to do this: what I mentioned earlier. If that happens, I'll be happy. The filling of the privatisation hole is also an issue that should be addressed. Once is the will, the second is not the right agenda, the third is not the right companies to fill these holes, but some are too good and are waiting for privatisation through other channels, and so on. Privatization, on the other hand, is drifting away or there is no indication that this hole will be filled. This issue escapes citizens and brings this country together with credibility. What promises were made in the newspapers at the time of the elections! It was a special feature! Look, it's been six months, everything's moved. The use of a petrol tolar also indicates a certain lack of clarity and credulity. That's signifying. In this way, the implementation of this year's budget is likely to be carried out: to give something, a commitment, a law, a budget cut, then; of course, according to our needs, sometimes explained by force majeure; we are working our way. It is also possible to explain the scope of spending in the coming year. The petrol tolar is used at approximately 50% for the purposes for which it was adopted. Members of parliament even say that this is a little bit - well, let's say that's about that much. Therefore, the government will have considerable time available to move costs from one budget item to another, as it also seeks to ensure greater flexibility with other legal documents. I hope that this flexibility will be in favour of the Slovenian state, for the benefit of Slovenian citizens. The budget is 16% higher, so revenue 16 is something else, and expenditure 16 is something else. 7.8% of inflation is forecast. Otherwise, the LDS government party or the signing of the coalition contract indicated that the inflation programme would be 4.5 or between 4 and 5%. I would be so glad if inflation were so low. But given what's been going on in recent times, I'm not sure it's going to be 7.8%. But I would not want to be guilty of predicting high inflation now, and I would not like the citizens and the government to blame me for encouraging inflation in the Slovenian space as a representative of New Slovenia. However, it shows that these plans will not be achieved. An increase in this budget also shows that some other expected objectives are being built in. Public financial problems will therefore only deepen in the coming period. That's a fact. The pressure will be even higher. This is also illustrated by the current situation. The rest of the individual areas would not be particularly affected, as Members of New Slovenia will be particularly involved when the debate is on this issue. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the government for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u59	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer, for your performance. Now he has the word of his colleague Cyril Pucka. Are you suggesting we finish? I'm closing or terminating the session this morning. We'll continue at 2 p.m. Once again, at 2 p.m., the National Assembly will continue its meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the fact that it is already six minutes past 14, the National Assembly still does not meet the conditions for conclusion, I ask you kindly to join us so that we can begin the afternoon session. Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government! We continue with the afternoon work of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We're picking up the presence! There are 59 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 6th extraordinary meeting, on 20.4.2001: Mr Yuri Malovre for the afternoon part of the meeting. This morning we suspended the session in the work when representatives of the parliamentary groups presented their views on the complementary draft state budget.We still have the views of the two parliamentary groups, I give the floor to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. This year's budget is adopted relatively late for a number of reasons: one is that it was not proposed by the previous government within the deadline. Others are elections and the formation of a government, which is why the budget, which was drawn up within a good two-month period, is submitted relatively quickly to the National Assembly. This budget was prepared under the conditions of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, under which the revenue of the budget at the end of 2000 was not sufficient to cover all planned commitments this year. The government has faced major liquidity difficulties in ensuring legal, contractual and other obligations. As a result, delays in the payment of liabilities from the state budget and the transfer of as much as 22.8 billion tolls from last year's to this year. In this context, this budget has a transitional sanitation nature, with which we are partially correcting the mistakes made last year. The draft State budget and the global public funding balance for 2001 are based on the basic objectives and direction of the government as defined in the budgetary memorandum and the essence of which are the following: They decide that in 2001 it is necessary to stop the trend of increasing public financial revenues and achieve a fiscal balance that will support macroeconomic stability while at the same time allowing the creation of greater budgetary resources for the implementation of the priorities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the gradual restructuring of public finances, aimed at maintaining the level of public financial revenues at about 43% of gross domestic product. We also support the increase in efficiency and the economicisation of public financial expenditure, which requires the simplification of individual systems, for example the social transfer system, by ensuring their greater transparency and greater linkage to the actual material situation of beneficiaries. We also support the reform of public administration, the system of wage regulation in the public sector, the improvement of the efficiency of the healthcare and health insurance system and the gradual restructuring through the re-examination of pre-mandated and non-harmonised legal obligations and national programmes, and the simultaneous increase in expenditure that will directly enhance the competitiveness of the economy and the strengthening of human resources. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are reluctant to repeat the situation in the coming years, as was the case in 2000 in the area of congestion on investments in individual sections of the road, when they amount to more than 130%, and not the share of overloads provided by the relevant law for last year. In this respect, it is necessary to revise and, on this basis, amend the priority investments and, in particular, to align with the state road modernisation programme. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that transparency and coordination of budgetary expenditure with development programmes and with the financial possibilities of the country is a prerequisite for sound public finances. Especially because there is a need for a very thorough and reasoned debate on laws and national programmes arising from these programmes. Interventions into a series of laws and regulations based on about 85% of total public consumption are necessary. In this respect, it is already fixed in a given year. In preparing the multi-annual budget planning that we want to introduce, it is imperative that the government give special care or attention to reducing inflation, so that the higher expected inflation on the budget itself does not psychologically encourage those people. At the same time, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia expects the budget for the coming years to be supported by a social agreement that must harmonise a wider range of problems and should not be limited to the elements of income policy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we insist on the consistent implementation of the Anti-Birocratic Programme, the revision of those legal rights and obligations and the meaningful simplification of administrative procedures, in particular those for investment, which is of great importance for potential, foreign and domestic investment. Rationalisation of employment in public administration is essential. At the same time, the human resources reinforcements of certain areas of entry into the European Union must be a reduction in other areas. Wage dynamics in the public sector must adapt to the dynamics of wages in the economy. It is also necessary to prepare a thorough analysis of the so-called para-State funds and their rationalisation. According to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the government must pay particular attention to the sale of state property. An impact analysis should be prepared. For the economy expects this sale to be considered professionally and will take into account the interests of the Slovenian economy and the good examples of foreign solutions. The State must act as a good master in this sale. At the same time, an analysis of the effects of budgetary indebtedness on the foreign and domestic financial markets should also be prepared. In particular, the Government or the Ministry of Finance must pay particular attention to the indebtedness of municipalities, in particular to investment firms themselves. As is the case now, investment costs are unnecessarily increasing, while the issue of the play of the law on community financing and the law on public finances is being raised. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the updated draft budget. It will also support all amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u63	Dear representatives of the government, respectable, colleagues and colleagues! Much later, as we would like, today, we are adopting the 2001 budget. The reason is well known: Elections in October 2000. But I'm not sure that's an excuse. In the future, we hope it will be different. The government is responsible for preparing the budget, each government. If he doesn't, it would be fair for him to step down. It is not, however, that we have witnessed restrictions on temporary funding, which has limited the functioning of the State and society in almost all situations. The proposed budget will still be supported by Members of the Young Slovenia Party. In particular, because the normal functioning of the State is an emergency. So that there will be enough paper to write electricity in the courts, it will be appropriate for the police - if I list only the most banal things caused by temporary funding. We further support the budget on the grounds that this government has, with our help, changed the way pensions and salaries are coordinated in the public sector, which no longer includes automatic adaptation to inflation. For the Young Slovenia Party, the budget items on the most important items are increased. We believe that this has also come to our attention. Education has nominal growth of 17.7%, science 21. But it's not as big as you'd like. But we're still real. Reality today means the urgency of high economic growth, which should balance public finances in the future. This budget follows this in the grave. We hope, however, that the government has not counted in the forecast of economic developments. The budget deficit is somewhat over 1% acceptable in our view, but it will need to be reduced in the future or, even better, addressed if we want to maintain the level of Slovenian country debt to 35%. With our first-reading amendments, we have suggested that we see the need for funding for our citizens and citizens of extremely important programmes such as: prevention of addiction, housing for young people and students, promotion of eco-schools and healthy schools, provision in the field of development promotion. We, too, and especially during the budget preparation period for the next two years, will actively cooperate. We expect to be taken into account by government parties. In the second reading, we have concentrated all our energy in just one amendment, an amendment that corrects the error made by the government in the previous term. I'm talking about an amendment that provides the essential resources needed to start building a pediatric clinic. With this one and only amendment, we want to convince you all to correct this mistake from the past. The basic thread of the 2001 budget, according to your words, are also and above all are young. That's why we just want your words to become actions. We remind you that this will be watched over by Members of the Party of Young Slovenia all the time and not as it was in the past, when we evaluated this only every four years in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentations of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the complementary draft state budget. As an individual part, it is considered to be a general part, a specific part and a development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the proposed supplementary budget. No one has applied for the general debate, so Mr Barovic, would you like to discuss it? [[...]] Mr Barovic signed up in writing. Since we did not know whether to work in general or special, we consider him to have applied for general work. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I will refer to my fellow Member, Saš Pečet, who, in his opening remarks to our party, also mentioned the Prime Minister's speech on the purpose of how much resources the State should devote to investing in order to keep the investments to the same extent as they were in the previous year. He also pointed out that investing is an investment aggregate that starts the other engines, if I may say so. When I'm in general work, I hope that - three times I've checked - I've accurately recalculated, I've seen that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is committed to investment in its budget - this is my definition - only a good 5% of all budget expenditure. Of course, this percentage - and I will not compare it with the percentages used in the budgets of another country - is very low for this country, especially if we link it to another part where we want to see and know where and how much money this country should get for normal functioning and to meet all our wishes. We have also heard about this today: that we are double in this regard in the National Assembly, that on the one hand we want a balanced budget, we want savings; on the other hand, we want amendments. This may be true in general, but in reality it is not. For all those who table the amendments would be silent and would not invest them if those funds that we have foreseen were already included or taken into account in the budget. So looking at ambiguity, duality and so forth is very relative. My comment in this general part therefore refers to a very low percentage of budget expenditure on investments: both those that bring new values and those that are urgently needed. I think my colleagues know how everyone would like to have a modern and modern new education at the time of their entry into Europe. In health care we would like the content as defined by the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia. We demand that in health care we achieve some verification. All of this requires the means for which this country is obliged to provide. With rational politics and not with rush. I'm sure these relationships will have to change. For I will return to the debate of my fellow Member. The state budget is the same as the municipal budget. The municipal budget is the same as the family budget. But the attitude of not saying again that we are making amendments must be such that the whole family has to decide which things will be priority when purchasing and which things will have to wait. That's why this National Assembly is here, so here's the budget. That's why we're here so that we can agree on which things have priority and which things can wait. I'm going to point out once again that 5% of my share, given that I'm talking to general work, is too small. Let me mention that, like here, it's not good in the family if it's only one decision. Nor is it good that, in the case of our national assembly and this budget, only some have decided. We know that the Rules of Procedure have been deliberately amended so that, in fact, the budget itself could not be changed in any way. When we have reached or taken into account the difficult conditions of the new Rules of Procedure, all that is in this current lane has been rejected, I will say, closer to the family, to think it would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Wait a minute! Mag. Anton Rop, a number of Members of Parliament have made themselves known to the debate. Allow me to suggest that you finally answer the questions. First, Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank Mr Barovic for having already said the things I was going to say. As a citizen of this country, it bothers me to substantiate what he said by 5% that our economy is limping. If the economy is not healthy and the economy is not developing, then there is nothing to share. If the cake is small, then the participants get a small piece. As a builder, I am most interested in the highway cross. For this reason, I have asked the question already in January - you all know what I'm going to say, because I keep saying this - that I have not received the answer, what is with that gas toll, that this is a deliberate delay, that the budget is going through. Then whatever it is, they answer me, whatever. My speech is now somewhat impoverished in this case. Well, that really bothers me. And at the last session, when the questions were sent, Mr Presecnik promised me or said that the mail was already on the way and that the mail had not yet arrived. And today he told me privately that he was still in processing. Thanks, about that. It's a gas toll. He was mentioned before me, and my colleague Drobnic said something about it today, and it seems that all of this is being ignored. I'm sorry. I don't have another term. It is also ignored because of this: for example, today we have also seen this when Comrade Drobnič was in the middle of Parliament - I do not know whether it is purely a big coincidence or purpose, I will not judge it. Mainly, Mr. Minister of Finance and the secretary have left this room. I don't know why you didn't want to hear it. [[...]] Is there anything else? Is that an accident? I don't know. From the very beginning, in every marriage we adopt, we see that everything is being broken. Therefore, it is not surprising that the motorway programme is also reduced. About 20%, according to last year. Pensions are also reduced. Mr Kebrič mentioned in his implementation that those who have high or high pensions should be reduced and given to those who have small pensions. This was our proposal just before the new year when we talked about pensions. He defended himself differently. When Mr. Peterle asked him what he was going to say to his constituents, he said the voters would understand him by now. I don't know how they'll understand it when they find out at the end of this year that they're going to buy 10 or, I don't know, how many percent less for last year's pension. It bothers me, too, say, that. It's just an illustration of what I've been talking about. The last time we accepted railways when we were talking about 6 billion debt, we were talking about government guarantees. We'll get 6 billion to pay back 10.3 billion in five years. Not a metre of new tracks will be made out of that money. So, this is for maintenance, for wages, I don't know why. When I asked if I could do the analysis. Because 6 billion is just some money I didn't get this analysis. Just encyclopaedic, one line of written text and finally a number. Is that supposed to convince me that we're doing the right thing? Excuse me! I also asked the secretary directly, and he didn't answer either. Of course, I can't hold anyone's hand so he has to answer that. With a heavy heart, I will say that I am against this, with full responsibility. So, say, I know that this budget will be voted on. We can vote it right now, right now, because the result will be exactly the same if we talk or if we don't talk. It's just, I think that whoever's in for, a little bit of a test of their conscience, or he's also pressing the "for" button with full responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! In particular, the discussion on the general part of the settlement would address the issue of the sale of state property. Indeed, the fact is that, in some ways, this year's budget is also a kind of crisis budget, as far as the commitments it has to cover for the year 2000 are concerned. Of course, the state is also in some way in the process of dealing with this loss of income from the transfer of state property. To some extent, it is envisaged that the possibility of creating this area should be avoided by a specific law regulating the privatisation of state property. It is essentially true that the country is, by definition, a bad master of its assets. Of course, when it comes to the sale of this property, it has to find out in some way; which property in the sale of state property is in some ways the one that is not crucial from a national point of view and when the time is right. In doing so, I would like to point out something else. The sale of property must be transparent and transparent. I am afraid that in some way this by-pass, when in some ways by covering the budgetary revenues on the basis of the sale of state property, we are mucking out revenue. In a way, this transparency is blurred. Here, too, I see that the possibility of direct control by Parliament is somehow overlooked. The Committee on the Economy must also monitor the privatisation of state property. In some laws, we also have a partially defined way of privatising the property concerned. However, we do not have these segments in global terms and we regulate them with the law on the implementation of the budget. I think that the role of Parliament here should be much clearer and more important. In particular, to avoid potential abuse and damage to the sale of state property. When selling state property, the State must ensure that it proves to be a good seller. Surely, in some ways, if the role of Parliament is smaller, certain questions may arise in this process. Therefore, it is likely that this year, when this programme is increased by 10 times, it will need to consider what the role of Parliament and what role Parliament should play in controlling and monitoring the sale of state property. I am sure that we should: either make more concrete about the role of the parent committee or design a special commission to do so. Indeed, the fact is that in the current National Assembly the Economic Committee has a very large working circle. There may be a fear that this sensitive issue will be underly detailed and thoroughly addressed. There is likely to be more talk about this in the law on the implementation of the budget following this budget. Above all, I think that the most important concern I have on this issue is: In fact, if a country sells state property, it has to devote these resources to development. We need to ask ourselves: What will follow over the years when this property will be no more and if, in these years, so-called years of fat cows, we will use these funds for various transfers, not for funds that would allow for a new development component and also for new revenue options in the state budget? That is why I think that, in fact, this year's proposal is a thorough reflection on how to proceed and, above all, to consider that Parliament has an appropriate role to play in the sale of state assets as a supervisory function. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Peca has the word and then the Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u71	Respectable, present. Basically, I must say that I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is back at our meeting and that he will be able to hear the views and, on the one hand, also an opinion on his work, i.e. on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the general work or the debate that is taking place at this time, I would like to continue with my colleague Bogdan Barovic's thoughts in the relationship of revenue by structure between tax and tax. As in the government itself, you know, all 192 local communities, as localally said, make up their municipal budgets. It is interesting, however, that in all these municipal budgets the ratio of tax revenue to non-tax revenue is in proportion. In our country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia and the state budget, we see that non-tax revenues do not reach even 10% of tax revenues. This means that, unfortunately, this country is fueled, let's say, almost exclusively by fiscal policy. So this country doesn't even live in part of its assets. In connection with the fact that we now have 10 per cent of recent revenues, what will I do here on behalf of the parliamentary group when we regret to privatise the rest of the state assets in the form of SRD? Since I had not previously found a suitable interlocutor in the Slovenian Government when I asked what would happen to the unemployed more than 2 thousand, according to the social partners that this government is ignoring, regretting and what would happen with the recent revenues as soon as the SRD is transformed and transferred to Pide, according to your information or according to the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? I'd really like an answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. Ten years after the independence or even a little bit more, we see that we are ahead of the recovery budget. I don't think our country and the Slovenians deserve it. I think that after 10 years of being a single country, there could be developmental multi-annual budgets that would give rise to optimism and perspective. Unfortunately, we have before us a document from which they come, I would say very pessimistic things. Let me just mention some. Despite the provision of the prime minister and, of course, a number of other government representatives in Slovenia are expected to implement and focus on anti-biocratic action and the anti-biocratic programme. At the same time, the share of resources dedicated to new employment and increased state bureaucracy is above all borders. More. The mandatory budget provision is also intended for salaries and certain bureaucratic matters such as printing and the like. At the same time, not only what we see from the budget itself, but also the government's ability to increase this share in accordance with the budget implementation law. I think it is a fundamental and biggest mistake to increase red tape at the expense of investments in certain activities and sectors, which I think are and should be a priority. I'll tell you what I think is a priority in our country. In our country, it is a priority to invest in that healthy part of the economy that creates the highest added value, because only through this investment and through this share can we ensure that many mandatory, social transfers and, of course, many of the country's non-economic obligations are serviced. I think we're making a key mistake because we're going the other way. We strengthen bureaucracy, and with various legislation we squeeze and pressure the economy. We have also witnessed this when we adopted a law or amendment of the value added tax law. I don't think that's the right way. I think there's going to be a lot more to be done. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance because, in his opening statement, he said that the government had planned to increase revenue in the supplementary plan, including on the basis of an increase in corporate income tax, which is evident from the rapporteur, of course. The Agency for Payments publishes the data from the final accounts, from which it reported that for 2000 they were lower than the year before. This is said to have been a net profit of 119.5 billion in 1999 and 117.5 billion in 2000. This is said: From this data of the paying agency, it follows that the data is in the wrong direction. I see no argument as to why this year or why and where the data from the Ministry of Finance would be increased or expected to increase the corporate income tax. I would also like to know whether the purchases since the sale of the third generation mobile phone are realistic, because somehow in such estimates, the profit tax on the matter between data and planning differs as to what is just there. My personal opinion is also that the state is in charge across borders. Article 74 of the Public Finance Act implies that purchases from capital investments should be spent on debt disposal. On the other hand, we increase capital shares in some companies, especially non-performing companies, to remedy some of the issues that have arisen, inherited. This is said: we are consciously investing money in unsuspecting things, rather than strengthening a healthy, vital, evolving economy and investing in knowledge, progress, development. We're sanitizing, and we're just sanitizing. I think that what I have said is a key error in this global budget, in the overall work. But I'll talk to you about a special job later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, you have applied to the replica, but allow - considering that your implementation and implementation of the mags are done. The visionary didn't even cover the work and that the replica actually explained something that you didn't understand with the speaker -- let the mag. Anton Rope to answer your questions. My assessment is that as long as you report to the replica, there's nothing to replicate because your performances were not covered in anything. I'm guessing I can't grant you the possibilities for a replica because there's nothing to replicate. The replica explained if you were not well understood, an MP who is talking about the same thing. Comrade Visjak spoke entirely of other things, and you have nothing to face with your opinions here. By allowing me to give the word mag. Anton Rope. There's nothing to replicate, Mr. Sasha Pec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u75	I'm glad that you have visionary ability and that you predict events in advance. I believe that this is the property of the entire liberal democracy in this Slovenia, which leads this country with this necessary majority. But I would be very happy if you would allow me a replica and only then assess what the purpose of this replica was. You know, communication usually takes place in a two-way process: So, first you hear me and then you will be able to find out what I was going to say. Of course, if you don't allow it, you'll be in the style of liberal democracy and you'll just take my word for it. But let it be. I'm not going to insist because I don't want to take responsibility for today's long session. I just wanted to explain - the programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called anti-biocratic programme, which is based on its basic step, which built another commission. So much for the purpose of the Slovenian government's actions and the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. You've confirmed my assessment that this has not been a replica yet. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will try to answer some of the claims, as well as the questions raised. Perhaps I would start with Mr Visiak because of some of the claims he has made, in particular as regards the profits and reports of the paying agency. If you look at this report, you will see that the profit of Slovenian companies has increased by, I think it is 17%, but there has also been an increase in the loss in this leasing. Therefore, the net profit from this title, in short, between profit and loss, is aggregately lower than it was in 1999. But profit tax is not paid by companies that have lost, but by companies that have profits. Those companies that had profits had more profits than those companies that had profit 99. So the whole base is tax, for the calculation of the profit tax is 17% higher. You will also see this from this report. That's why the source is bigger. The net is smaller because the loss this year is also slightly greater. That explains it. I think you can see for yourself as long as you look at it. Otherwise, I agree with you that the only area we can say is that it is justified to invest money from the purchase, to invest additional resources from the state - that these are the areas where the highest added value is created. You are the most opposed to the fact that part of the purchase from privatisation is earmarked for an investment fund in the development of technologies, for the recapitalisation of the technological development fund and for the recapitalisation of the Slovenian export company. You challenge this - that is why you have legal formal reasons and we will probably explain in the law on the implementation of the budget why we believe that we can use this part of the purchase in this year as well. These are the only purposes for which we went in this year to make additional use of the purchase - except those which are specific laws. These are, in particular, those relating to recapitalisation to public energy undertakings in the area of stranded investments, which is a specific provision of the energy law and is an urgent trace of the opening up of the market and the liberalisation of the electricity market. Our commitment is and therefore we had to put it in, and only in this part - here I speak of course also of what Mr Rokavec said - we went with partial use of the purchase, in the case of recapitalisation, for capital injections and for development purposes. In these cases, we considered it reasonable to use the purchase to do so, even because some ministries have also tried to motivate them to make privatisation faster in certain areas and to purchase it and then use it for developmental purposes. You know that in this country we have very often planned privatisation projects, that this was also in the previous budget and that since the privatisation that was planned, very little has been realized. This time I hope and believe that I will strive to be an important part of this privatisation programme, which you have also received on the bench and which Mr Rokavec also talked about, we will also implement. The question is whether it will come in October or November or December or in January. However, what seems crucial and, of course, an answer to Mr Rokavac, is that we conduct procedures transparently, that we try to respect two fundamental principles in privatisation.One, of course, is the economic principle, the principle of the efficiency of individual areas and the sense of privatisation. And the second is to maximize the purchase. Here I fully agree with what Mr Rokavec said. This is also why we have explicitly written down, including in the law on the implementation of the budget, that in the case of banks, for example, the purchase can be used exclusively and only for the purposes of repayment of the debt and absolutely for nothing else. In this sense, of course, it is very important that, when we go to the privatisation of banks, we pay for the part that taxpayers have invested in these two banks and that we withdraw these bonds and withdraw from these two banks. As politicians, as of course, I would say, taxpayers, by their means. If you'll excuse me, there's only one more thing I'd like to try to answer what Mr Barovic said. Because I think it makes sense, and maybe sometimes it's not clear enough. With regard to investments, I would like to say that the share of public spending on investment in Slovenia is relatively high. I must say that I agree with many of you, including some of you, who have repeatedly stressed that all investments in Slovenia, all infrastructure investments in Slovenia, cannot be made only with taxpayers' money. That we need to do significantly more in the field of concessions and also by engaging private capital. If we look at the data on investments and shares of public finances in gross domestic product, we see that in Slovenia, if the budget is adopted and we realize what it says - and I believe we will - 3.9% of gross domestic product. If I compare this with other countries - I have data from all countries of Europe and the world - then we see that these shares are significantly lower in other countries because they also use other instruments. For example. Austria 1.7; Germany 1.8; Sweden 2.6; France 3 less than us; Spain 3.4; Greece 4.2; Portugal 4.4. In short, most of these countries - and I can show you this - have a lower share of investments in the budget and combine the use of private resources with state investments. It would be difficult to say from this point of view that the budget is underdeveloped in this part and that this represents a large shortfall in this budget and that investment needs to be dramatically increased in this regard in the following budgets. I can say something later about the structure of public finances. I agree that the structure of the other benefits is too small. Here comes the problem of concession in another area, with sources. With regard to domestic taxes, indirect taxes and social security contributions, we are relatively at the level of other countries. [[I can tell you what it's like in countries.]] . We may be lagging behind in the area of direct taxes. This is our mission and programme for this year, so we start with a set of new direct taxes next year. Maybe so much for an introduction as a replica of what you were saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'd like an additional explanation from the minister. With replicas of mags. Andrej Vizjak, then Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Mr Jerovšek also took part in the debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would first touch on my debate on net profit. I used this term for "fine" because I know what pure profit means. However, the fact that the Minister of Finance also served with this information that the actual loss is greater than the profit and thus net profit is lower suggests that the situation in the economy is worrying. Because if we have a loss over profit, so net profit in return - that's the data of the paying agency - then it's a worrisome thing. Regarding the servicing or consumption of purchases from capital investments for development projects, as also mentioned by the Minister of Finance, I would say that the fact that he provides from these purchases to the ecological development fund of the Republic of Slovenia - but you know how many - 800 million tolars. In order to save inherited investments and service obligations of Slovenian ironworks almost 30 billion. This is the distribution between the development component of these, the consumption of these purchases and the sanitary dimension of the consumption of these purchases. So if you can do that with a percentage here, it's 30 billion to 0.8 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, allow the Minister to replicate his reply. Here you go, Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u81	Yeah. I would like to say that Mr Vizjak used those numbers that fit him. For example, he forgot the fund to invest in technology development, which is 3 billion. He mentioned the recapitalisation of the Technology Development Fund, which amounts to 250 million. So you've missed 3 billion, even some other numbers here you haven't mentioned. It is interesting, however, that you compare those figures that have already been identified, such as investments in public energy companies. It is something which, of course, is not determined by this budget and cannot be, but it is determined by the Energy Act and by Slovenia's commitment to join the European Union to take care of inherited investments. This has nothing to do with decisions on this budget. We have to do this when we privatise companies in the field of energy. We have to make 10 percent of this purchase for this area. This has nothing to do with this policy right now, which is probably what we're talking about. Unless we're talking about the energy law, we're talking about, of course, another problem. Also in the case of ironworks: This is the programme that was given to Brussels during the time of the government of Dr. Bajuk. There the Slovenian government has pledged to assume these obligations. We owe these obligations today. This is not a policy of this budget, but it is our commitment to join the European Union and therefore we are obliged to do so. We have also shown this transparently in these balance sheets. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u82	Mr. Visac, please. It's a replica. Mr. Bajuk is also challenged, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It'd be a short one. Look, I agree with the Minister of Finance that we have to meet the commitments we have made. That's the only thing right. But I'm saying: the source isn't real. The Public Finance Act sets out exactly why purchases should be used. This is a system law in the field of public finances. I think it is unacceptable, with certain sectoral laws, to interfere with and break this system principle. If we decide to break this systemic principle, we will amend the Public Finance Act. As part of the adoption of this year's budget, as well as legislation, we have also adopted a series of other laws to lay the groundwork for legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Bayuk. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u85	Only this would say that the Public Finance Act in Article 6, paragraph 2, allows the annual law to determine specific assigned revenue in a given year, irrespective of the provision of Article 74 of the Public Finance Act. This means that there is a substantive decision in the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget. If we make a substantive agreement or decide, the National Assembly and also the Government - of course, it proposes - that these are also intended, then we can decide. But if we feel that these are not the right intentions, then we cannot make a decision. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. You're giving up the replica. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanation. You said earlier that Mr Vizjak - a parable - uses the numbers that come to him. Well, let's face it, not just you, but the other gentlemen ministers are using the data that comes in handy. Indeed, there is a lower share of investment in Italy and Austria than in us. However, there is a small, very important difference: Italy and Austria are developing a European country and the Republic of Slovenia is a country in transition. Logically, anyone who wants to become some kind of powerful corporation and when it starts at a much lower level, certainly has to invest a lot more to achieve it. The proof of this is all our efforts and the huge contributions that the Republic of Slovenia is making to become an equal member of the European Union. Huge investments! Well, maybe I'll be a little clearer. In fact, if I add up only expenditure, interest payments abroad and at home, the sum is greater than the sum of individual investment expenditure or investment transfers in general work. I was just giving you a heads-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I wanted to respond to the implementation of the Minister, Mr Rope, that, as a client - as I do not know who he has pointed out - we object to the fact that the purchase from the sale of state property would also be invested in the technology development fund and development programmes. I claim that this claim is completely wrong and not well-intentioned. In fact, not only has the current government phased out the technology sector in order to destroy itself as much as possible or there is no traceability as little has actually been intended in previous years for the development of new products; but it will be even harder to determine how little is allocated to this budget for this area, an extremely important area. Although the Minister mentioned that 3 billion are for the Technology Development Fund, I fear the general climate that governs companies involved in development, that they already know that this is just some kind of mask, a propfarsa. Indeed, the favour of this government is already so tested because it is in the same composition that in companies and research organisations dealing with the development of new technologies and new products, they are well aware that there will be little of this. Indeed, I am afraid that in the past period the government has established a bunch of agencies, funds and all that this will only happen in the Ljubljana area. 80% of this money doesn't come to businesses, it doesn't come to research organizations. There are those research organisations that deal with studies on how to use money rather than on the application activities. Since they have abolished this technology sector, it is also clear to me that the purchase from the sale of state property will be significantly lower than it could have been if this property were sold in some normal circumstances. The fact is, all potential buyers well know that the state is in prison for deficits, that it will have to sell its assets at all costs and that it will by no means survive what it is worth. As has been the case so far, private interests will prevail when it is already considered that this property will be estimated as low as possible to come into exactly the right hands at a very low price. There have been a whole bunch of such cases during this period of power. I know them, and there was nothing I could do about it. It's practice, it's technology, it's lobbying from behind. To ensure that the purchase of state property will be useful in promoting new technologies and healthy investments in the economy, I simply do not believe. I would have believed that if another new government had said this, which had no such experience, and which did not come with this legacy. This legacy doesn't guarantee that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I am joining the replica myself, Mr Minister, when he was talking about the sale of property and other elements of the budget. In this context, I would only say that I understand the embarrassment of the Minister and others at the Ministry. I am firmly convinced that they know and have perhaps significantly different information as we have it. It is extremely difficult, probably because of their views and their values, which they probably have within them, to defend something that they may not even agree with. Only if I mention it. As I sometimes observe little, I know how the Secretary of State suffered in the debates, in the working bodies, when we have suffered with many questions and when she has had to defend things in a different light, such as the real reality, and as she can be sure of what it really looks like. Regarding the disposal of property, I would say this: In your political option, you are in great uncertainty, even at the wrong time, you will be selling, as Mr Jerovšek said, certain assets. If I mention one thing, it's because you rejected the resell law and so on. Telekom is no longer worth what was possible a few months ago. We all know that these world trends have changed. If you sell it today on the world market or anywhere, you will get significantly less. So you're late for your politics here, too. And here's the question, for example, at what cost you're going to sell this property. With regard to the budget at certain levels, where it would be possible to obtain certain funds, let me recall only one - which we have so many times raised here in the National Assembly - we have not received any questions or any answers to these many questions - namely, energy. We all know that in the field of energy - on the basis of the data we have lost - there was a huge billion money that could have been spent in the right way for any purpose, developmental and so on, if economically, in the previous period and today, properly and economically. Now, of course, we have transferred this energy from one ministry to another because the ministries have agreed with the prime minister that they do not want to deal with this area or have it in their own department and simply want to get rid of it because they are not adults or they cannot easily deal with the lobby that is in this region of government. Now it's going to be a huge deal with this transmission. Instead of providing us and the country with some benefit in the energy sector in the previous period and today, we will now give this trade to private companies that will generate big profits, and the country will have nothing more than 25 percent of the profits if, of course, it succeeds in showing you these profits correctly. As far as other state aid is concerned. Let me just mention one case. I know that I have raised the question - if the Shuštar affair brings back the 27 million or how much has already been recovered from this bribery affair. He just said yesterday that, on the basis of the prior agreement, he had been granted these funds, otherwise he would not have received these funds. I received a reply from the minister that only what was fucking allocated could be done - because it was in line with the programme and so on - and that only if they found out that the money was not spent in the plan would it be necessary to return, otherwise not. Yes, please! If money is placed from a bribery affair, this money must be returned! If someone didn't get that money by normal procedure, they should be returned. That's not how you do it! There is a great deal of State aid that is unduly shared, of course, by the client key. I have already said many times in the discussions on the budget, because it is simply stupid for me to talk about it. Many things should be left to the congregations. The municipalities themselves are best aware of how certain funds should be spent in the investment area. To mention only one area: municipalities are in charge of economic development under the Local Self-Government Act, but they cannot do so because they have no resources to do so. Even a number of other assignments that the congregations have cannot carry out because they are not properly evaluated programs, because sharing is wrong and because bureaucracy wants to create power and hold it in its hands, so that it can manipulate and blackmail someone. That's unacceptable. Such a budget and such a way of working will only bring this country to ruin, nowhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Look, Madam President! I would like to ask that we wait for a magnetogram of the Minister of Finance's statement in terms of the discussion on the consumption of purchases, because now the services of the National Assembly cannot provide this magnetogram. But you would now conclude the general debate and then we cannot go back. Can we go back?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u94	We are currently in the general part of the budget and this is a general debate. In fact, the discussions of respected colleagues go to other parts, which we will open further to our general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u96	Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u97	I think it's extremely good to clear this up. There's no problem. You don't have to wait for a magnetogram because I'm going to repeat what I said. I have previously argued that the sixth paragraph of Article 2 provides the basis for this exception. Now, of course, I'm going to make it more clear. What you are referring to is Article 74. Article 74 clearly states: "The purchase of capital investments and deposits shall only be used to repay debts in the financing account." That's perfectly clear. However, in Article 2, exceptions to the rules of this Act are provided and it states: "All benefits shall be used to cover all expenses, unless otherwise specified by this law or by law governing the implementation of the budget for each year or by a decree adopting the municipal budget." However, in order to be perfectly clear on what I was saying, it is necessary to read Article 3. I didn't say that before, so if you do another MRI, it'll be clear. The 10th paragraph of Article 3 states what benefits are: "Receivables are all incomes, funds from received repayments of the loans granted," and I will now read twice: "funds from the sale of capital shares, assets from the sale of capital shares and from debt". Therefore, the assets from the sale of capital shares are also subject to this exemption, which is given in Article 2, paragraph 6. I don't think there's any need to search for a magnetogram, because I can do it again as many times as you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u99	I think it is extremely unacceptable to interpret such an interpretation that there are exceptions in Article 2, which sets out the objectives of the budget and the principles of the law. In Article 74, here are the rules, these are the main rules, the main rules, but they are of a general nature. Even if I understand you correctly, then the municipal decree can be contrary to and respected by the law on public finances. See, Article 74 states that purchases from the sale of capital shares can only be used to cover debt. That's a clear diction. If this is a system-wide roofing law, then it's clear. In contrast, we cannot say that we are allowing other laws to govern ourselves in a completely different way. I don't think that's right. I think you explicitly quoted Article 74 in the introduction to paragraph 6. This does not appear to be the case in Article 2, paragraph 6. The sixth paragraph of Article 2 shall not apply to Article 74. That's not right. But I'm saying these are the goals. I'm saying these are principles. These principles are of general nature. However, as regards the purchases of capital shares, there is a specific exception. The exclusive use for this exemption is laid down in Article 74. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. First Mr. Janša and then Dr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u101	What Mr. Visac said is true. For all those who know Slovenian and have read it, the matter is clear. The sixth paragraph of Article 2 speaks of the possibility for all revenue to be earmarked for all expenditure. There's no limit here. However, the restriction is then laid down in Article 74, which states that purchases from the sale of state property may only be made for a certain purpose. So what Mr Financial Minister said is an argument for what we have always said, and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u102	Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Apparently, we've already started the debate on ZIPRO 2001. Despite the fact that we will certainly go back to this, I would like to add to all that we have already said by the Slovenian Coalition, in fact to this interpretation, which we have added to the law on public finances and is shared by the former Minister of Finance and now the Governor of Banka Slovenije. You can also read this not in the Rapporteur, but in the last issue of the Mag Week, where he has apparently given such an interpretation and is also in favour of such a principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u105	I'll take my turn. I don't know if that's exactly what the former Minister of Finance said, but if he said so, then look at the budgets for past years where the purchase was also used for such recapitalisations and capital injections. So he's changed his mind or it's wrong. I don't know. But it's beyond doubt, and it comes from all the previous budgets, that even in previous years, that's exactly how the purchase was used for these purposes, and you can check it out. [[..]] There's no doubt. With regard to what Mr Janša said, that is all I would say. He only took the first part of paragraph six. He said that he spoke of all the captures serving to cover all the expenses and then finished and went to Article 74. That's not true. Paragraph 6 states that this is the case, except, and this is a general principle, unless otherwise provided by this law, or unless otherwise provided by the law on the implementation of the budget. And then, of course, the following defines which benefits this refers to. So in the basic objectives and principles of the law is defined, in which part an exception is possible. And that was the exception. Even in recent years. And in this part, we do not deviate from what was, but we interpret the law and so it says, and so we propose such a solution. There is no doubt, however, that, as Dr. Bayuk said, there will also be a discussion when we have a law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. First Mr. Janša, then Mag. Vizjak and then Dr. Bajuk. Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u107	I'm sorry, but Mr. Finance Minister has once again confirmed what we're saying. What he has read is an argument for our claim that the part of the budget that provides the purchase from the sale of state property is inconsistent with the Public Finance Act. Article 6(2) states that all benefits may be earmarked for all expenditure except where the law provides for an exception. The law on the implementation of the budget. Maybe. However, the Public Finance Act in the article, which specifically discusses the sale of state property, essentially cements the matter for one part of the possible revenue. If that's not the case, then this marriage is totally out of line. Then this marriage is totally out of line. But why did you write Article 74 into this law? And if it has so far been against the law, this is not an argument that now the matter is suddenly legal. It's just as if someone said, because someone's been stealing for three years now, it's not a crime anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go. Mr. Robb, I'm sorry. The replicas were first reported by the mags. Vizjak, then Dr. Bajuk, then you can explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u109	Look, this debate can be very formal. But actually, there's a lot of content in the back. Article 74 of the Public Finance Act states that the purchase of property is to be made there in order to repay the debt. This means that we are not increasing the debt, but that we are servicing it or reducing it and that we have the free capital of the budget available for development. And this is where I started, and this is where I'm ending my debate, and I'm not answering. We do not, but instead we spend most of this money, or more than 80 or 70% of it to service inherited investments, to service debts under certain specific laws, which I am very disappointed that the relevant services have not warned that they are in conflict with Article 74. I would point out, however, that if we followed this principle advocated by the Minister of Finance, the decision of the municipality could be contrary to the law on public finances, but it could be taken into account, but this is extremely unacceptable from the hierarchy of the regulation. However, if we look at Article 2, paragraph 6, this follows. That is why I think and stress that the Public Finance Act is a system law that sets out in Article 74 a specific income intended for a specific purpose. And I think that, under this general principle, it is not possible to give this for other purposes, because then this principle is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Just one explanation. By warning the National Assembly and allowing myself to remind the Minister of Finance that his predecessor had recently stated this, I have not made any assessment of his previous work, and if what he proposed was indeed in line with his conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u113	First of all, I'd like to replicate in this section as far as content is concerned. In no case, for any of these expenditure arising from the purchase proceeds, we do not allocate these funds for current consumption, but rather for the conversion of assets. So much for content. This means that we are earmarking these funds for recapitalisation. So we don't spend it running, we don't take it through the A balance sheet, so we don't spend it, but we just transform it, some form of property into another form of property. As far as the energy law is concerned, it does determine, not the whole purchase, but 10% of this purchase to be earmarked for inherited investments. And the justification of whether it makes sense or not, of course, I am not the one to explain it, probably the competent minister. However, I believe that there is still a need for these investments in this case if we are to have a competitive economy in this segment as well. Otherwise, I'd say we're already spinning in a vicious circle. However, there is no doubt what Mr Janša said before - whether what is said here and is related to the law on public finances - and whether it is the law on the implementation of the budget. So that's where we're different. You claim that this implies that only what the Public Finance Act provides for, but not what this law further states, "or the law governing the implementation of the budget for each year". I did not say that this has been illegally applied in recent years, I said that it has also been so interpreted that in this article we are talking about this law on public finances or the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. First, Dr. Bajuk signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. This alone, I think, will certainly be a broader debate when we open the debate on the law on budget implementation. However, I would just like to say that it is not just laws in the game, but there is also a healthy approach to what we really want to achieve in this country, in what way the relationship between the executive branch and the national assembly should be. Who actually has final authority in this country, in our constitutional order, how it is available to public funds and who just has to enforce. These are other dimensions of this issue, which will certainly come the day we open this debate and open this debate. And common sense, and we'll have a lot to say about that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u117	If this interpretation were held by the Minister of Finance, then the concept of public finances would be undermined, as laid down in the Public Finance Act. This Article 2 of the Act, which deals with general principles, defines the general principle. This general principle is that all revenue collected in the budget can be spent on all expenditure. That there's no limit to the principle here. Then this second paragraph of paragraph 6 states that restrictions may be imposed in other laws. Furthermore, in this law, paragraph 6 of the second paragraph states that restrictions can only be imposed by law, with different laws. [[...]] Some are listed, one is very general. And it is this law, which is also the law in Article 74 below, that limits this purchase from the sale of state property. It already imposes restrictions, you do not need another special law to further confirm this restriction, and it is also not possible to return this restriction to the general principle by one field law. Well, I think we're wasting our time here because we probably won't convince the Minister, but it would be very good to get an official legal interpretation. And by no means can this, in my humble knowledge of law, be as advocated by the finance minister, where the whole concept of public finances is undermined.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on the general part of the draft supplementary budget. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have a procedural question. In fact, I do not understand, but especially not now, because we have not had enough time to go into the new rules of procedure. Here we will now decide on this part of the budget. In fact, the debate on the implementation of the budget will come later. I think it is almost impossible because this is not foreseen in that harmonisation amendment, at least in my opinion, but I would like the law enforcement service or someone to interpret how we will actually do this work if there is a change in the proposed law on budget implementation. More clearly, if this National Assembly adopts a proposal from Members, which is also supported by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance to delete Article 6, this will have consequences for this particular work, which would now be approved or accepted. I merely point out that, after we have deleted or not deleted, when we are even discussing the law on the implementation of the budget, we will come to the point that gentlemen, this has already been adopted, is no longer to be changed. Both laws are strongly linked, and this very article, which we are now reluctant to discuss, will have consequences in this part of the budget that we would now adopt. I believe that we may be able to deal with this and that we agree that the debate is closed in a preliminary fashion. But I don't know if it's possible to make the decision now, as planned. Because the new Rules of Procedure do not know how to resolve this issue. Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. If you allow me to explain to you the new Rules of Procedure set out the rules of the game as reported at the beginning. We have now opened a debate on the general part of the draft budget, discussed the general work contained in the "fat" law in the Official Journal, pages 2161 to 2167, on this part. We have concluded the debate and will decide on the general work. Then we will go to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget, where, according to individual budget users, we will have a general discussion and also to the individual amendments that you have tabled and we will also decide on amendments to the sub-programmes, and then we will move on to the consideration of the development programme plan, which is in the last part of the Official Journal and we will also decide on this work separately. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I didn't make myself clear. But just what you're saying now is that we're going to take it from 2161 to 2166 is what really bothers me. Because if there is to be an amendment to Article 6 of the law on the implementation of the budget, then this has its effect on the B account of financial claims and investments and, of course, also on C. I do not think that this option has been envisaged in this adopted Rules of Procedure. And if anyone can clear it up, I'll be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Allow me once again before you, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Tribal, I give the floor to explain Dr. Bayuki. Of course, you also use the word ac. The Rules of Procedure dictate that we do what we do now. And at this stage where we are, we must continue our work. But your warning is certainly appropriate. And here we have concluded the debate. I'm sorry. Only procedural proposals are still possible at this time. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Victory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wonder if I still have the right to explain my vote on this tragic case called the new Rules of Procedure? Do I? Thank you very much. Can I now explain my vote before the vote, or is there a new provision that also prohibits it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u124	Let me explain. Before we decide on the general part of the budget, you have the right to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u125	Is this the moment, or do I wait a few more moments?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u126	This may be the moment, but I think Mr Cyril Pucko had a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u127	So I'll wait for my colleague Pucka to have a procedural proposal. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u128	Let me warn you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u129	And then I'll explain my voice. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u130	Procedural proposal, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, it is not a procedural proposal, but we have already resolved this issue with my colleague, Dr Bayuk, because it is very clearly resolved by Article 7 of the revised Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the second paragraph, which speaks of the harmonisation amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget, if the budget is previously adopted and is also discussed below if this harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the state budget is not adopted. I don't think there's any dilemma here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much for explaining. An explanation of the vote before deciding on the general part of the supplementary draft budget is given by Mr Wingo Jelinčič Trimeniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, I don't know why the opposition is working so hard and convincing those who have decided to vote against the budget in contrast with the wishes of Slovenian people, not those politicians who are sitting here, but against the wishes of those who have given this policy their consent. All of this reminds us of the Greek tragedy, where in the end all died, viewers go home with tearful eyes, some at sea, some elsewhere, but in fact there is no other thing going on than making fun of those who have to bear the consequences. The budget, as it is directed, is actually horrifying. He did not take any comments into account, nor would he take any further comments into account. It's not even about the coalition budget, it's about the LDS budget. The LDS has already acquired certain positions where they will be able to continue to share financial resources over long and long periods of time. Those who shared them during this time and past the LDS have already been removed from certain positions so that more will remain for purely specific people. I think that something similar should not happen and that is why I will vote against this budget. I have voted not only now, but I will continue to vote against the budget. But I think it makes sense and important that Slovenians and Slovenians find out that this is a farstic matter, that there is a mix of air, an empty straw, and similar things. Here we go, some larpuratism that has neither tail nor head. There won't be any effect. However, since my colleagues in the Group asked me to explain to them or to try to clarify at least something that was supposed to be a red thread in this budget, on behalf of the Group of Members, I request an hour of harmonisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u134	Mr Victory Jelinčič, we are in the stage of deciding on the general part of the supplementary draft budget and not the whole budget. We still have a lot of work to do. We are actually moving on to the most extensive part of our budget, this is a special part where individual budget consumers are presented with their programmes, and we have a lot of amendments. Mr. Jelinčič, you have explained your voice in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u135	Madam President, article 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with interpretations, the latest edition - Article 72, paragraph 2, states: "The President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if the Group of Members so requests for consultation in the group." And we did so in accordance with the rules of procedure, for consultation in the group, and before the vote - unless we have another interpretation of the rules of procedure here again. I think it would make sense for this matter to be taken into account and that the Rules of Procedure are at least in those parts that you have not yet been able to change, that at least in those parts the rules of procedure are respected. Or say, you know what, distinguished gentlemen of the opposition, go home, because we don't need you anyway. You really don't need us after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u136	Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal, with long-standing parliamentary practice, allow you to know this business provision, which I think you know very well - by coming into the stage of explanations of vote, you know very well that we have started the decision-making process. And before you explain your vote, according to the interpretation of the business arrangement, you could request a recess before making a decision. An explanation of vote shall be considered to be a decision of this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u137	Madam Vice President! The session is supposed to be held by saying, "I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision." You didn't do it. That is why I am, and not you, unless it is now a subsequent amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we will probably get in writing in a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič, I conclude the general debate - I have concluded it. Then you said, "voicing." The procedural proposal was made by Mr Pucko, who explained what they had agreed, and then you said, "vote justification". And an explanation of vote is the voting phase. And, Mr Victory Jelinčič, this is the chairman's interpretation, and allow us to continue our work. We're in the decision-making phase. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u139	Thank you for giving at least this time a word, to tell you how someone will decide, but let me remind you, Madam, leave us the right to take such an important matter as the draft budget, perhaps this matter does not matter to you as we feel in the Slovenian national party to consult. There have been a lot of different opinions, a lot of different views, and please, at least be fair here. Yesterday in the debate on artificial fertilisation, you allowed Mrs Orazm to use the replica to read the letter, please. Have the same attitude towards all Members in this National Assembly, regardless of the fact that your Slovenian national party is not at your heart. Once again, we ask that, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the rules of procedure, the allocation of the required period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We are deciding on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 41 to 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Mr Franz Kangler made a written statement in the general debate. Here you go, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Well, I've decided to talk a little bit about the budget in this national council. And I have deepened somewhat substantively and also included the development sector, the research sector also in the National Assembly to complement me with some statistics and with some static data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say, I am disappointed alone with the investment-oriented budget. I note that this budget does not guarantee a balanced investment regional development in that country. If I said a little bit about a joke, a little bit, if we took it in meters, we could figure out that the unit of meters in Koper measures 50 centimeters, in Maribor 20 or 30 centimeters, in Celje 30 centimeters in Ljubljana, and in Ljubljana it is a meter and a half or a meter. Why I decided to talk like this. I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take into account certain statistics that point to a number of years of problems in certain parts of the country. And for the introduction, I will also serve you with some statistics showing a different picture than the Members would like us to sit in this national assembly today, which we want to adopt as soon as possible such a budget in order to ensure a balanced regional development. In the area of unemployment, however, the Institute for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia notes that on the other side of Troy, towards north-eastern Slovenia, mainly I think here Styria, Koroška and, of course, Prekmurje, is the biggest unemployment. In Maribor, unemployment is 20%, in Ruša 27.3 and Ruša is first. In Posnica 26, in Ptuj 16, in Celje 14, Lendava 20, Upper Radgona 20%. Ljubljana: unemployment 9.1%. And I ask myself, and I also ask you where you see an investment-oriented budget, so that this unemployment in these areas that I have counted will be reduced. These data I found now are not just data this month or this year for a number of years. And at night, this data will not change without the active cooperation of the government. And in the case of unemployment, by comparison, if I say Ljubljana - Ljubljana region has about 270,000 inhabitants and has only 407 employees through public works. Maribor, with 115 000 inhabitants, has 731 employees through public works. It is twice as much as Ljubljana, given that one third or half of us are less than Ljubljana. Don't let anyone blame me if I look in any particular area. We have spent a lot of time through the Ministry of the Economy in the development of regional programmes, especially here in the Sava region, a little less than 4 billion. And in particular, I will also read: 'The Ministry of Economy will issue in the region of the Sava region all available regional policy measures, which means co-financing of infrastructure, the business sector, the business zones, the implementation parts of the regional development programme and other measures in accordance with the programme adopted by the government'. I have no objection to such a programme and against such regional development in this region of our Republic. I am very disturbed that we do not have such regional programmes where there is the greatest unemployment, northeastern Styria, Koroška and Prekmurje. And the Ministry of Economy devotes a little less than 4 billion investments in this area, with only 44 million for the rehabilitation of mud in the Maribor Island hydroelectric power plant and in Soča. I did not understand the other investments in the budget that would be visible in this area of the Drava Valley. In the area of health, I think, above all, that investments in Ljubljana are worth 4 billion 602 million 241,000 tolars. In Maribor, 923,433 million. This is primarily about investment in psychiatry. At 454 Murski Sobota. In a cell hospital that covers a regional cell hospital, if I consider it to cover 250,000 residents, the panti tolari investment. Not even a tolar. And if we go back and forth to look at investment programs, we could see a similar picture, which I can prove later on from some documents. If we look at the implementation of cultural programmes, we can find that over 45% of the money in the field of culture remains in the Ljubljana area. The rest is divided into Slovenia. We have 1 billion 434 in Ljubljana. 0.62 million. In Maribor 664,011, in Murski Sobota 442,461. Many times there have been controversy about highway programs, about road construction. Many people have been quoted by the previous minister, and the current index has been severely reduced. And in view of this, I myself have repeatedly warned, the axis of the east - west, north - south, is crossing in Maribor. The Šentilj border crossing is the largest border crossing in Central Europe. We must all be aware that the situation in the Balkans has normalised, stabilised, and that all transit has already been shown at these Easter holidays, where it took an hour or two to travel from Maribor to Ptuj, which can certainly also be confirmed by the mayor of the Miklavž municipality, who is sitting here today, that this is true, will take place on this relation to the Balkans. But if you look at what the road program is like and how far are the road construction around Maribor, Drava Valley and all the northeast Styria, I am sure we will have a lot of road and infrastructure complications in this area during the tourist season. In this area, despite the statistics on unemployment, economic growth, although the mayor of Maribor is very proud that economic growth has improved and unemployment is not improving, we have another major problem. For us, the Maribor airport is very important. Here the government should actively engage in the resolution of the problem, because this airport is very important. I have already warned the Prime Minister on several occasions in the debate that it is important not only for North East Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška, but also from a national point of view and view, because I cannot imagine that our leaders, our representatives of the country, will be travelling abroad and landing at the Brno airport in Zagreb or Trieste. If we look at investments in the environment and space, it's like someone forgot about the floods in the Drava Valley and in the valley of Celje. It would be very interesting to ask some mayors who are responsible and are the first to solve such problems in the area of Drava Valley and Celje Valley, how much resources they were given to rehabilitate certain streams, rivers and the like. Very little. And here the relationship between the Ministry of Environment and Space should be slightly different from that of this budget. If we look at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and look at investments in the Maribor administrative unit, which is the second largest administrative unit, and if we look at the problems it faces with regard to spatial distress, and that people are waiting for a personal card for two, three hours because the government does not have the money to fix some facilities in the Maribor administrative unit, we can find that the government has not allocated a single tolar for this problem, despite the fact that the mayor of the municipal municipality of Sovič has repeatedly stormed - which is also the owner of these premises where this administrative unit is located. It's a school. You could say that we can figure out what secondary education is all about, that it's comparable to this Drava Valley. However, it is not comparable if we look at the construction of student homes or student homes in Maribor and compare them with homes in Ljubljana, because this year there are 143 million for students' homes in Maribor and 513 million for Ljubljana; in 2000 there are little less than 300 for Ljubljana 400, In 2004 200 million for Maribor, 715 million for Ljubljana. This means that some statistics show that many of our students decide to go to Ljubljana. Few return from Ljubljana to the environment where they live, mainly because of some of the arguments I have now listed, especially unemployment, there are no development programmes, there is no investment budget in this area that would reduce this unemployment. I'm telling you again. These are the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. And it would be good for the government to take some data into account when preparing the budget. We should take them into account. And certainly, if I am with the Ministry of the Interior and the Government, I must be honest with you that I am very disappointed at what happened to the amendment that took 100 million to the Owls and set them up elsewhere. We have to stop with this amendment, too. Look, in my previous term, I was also a Member of Parliament and a member of some investigative commissions. This arrogant attitude of the Owl towards parliamentarians, to some commissions in this national assembly, does not deserve to invest in this job. Not a single account of Owl was taken of by any investigative committee. Not a single piece of data. Then you, as a Parliamentary, ask yourself why we need it at all. Or who this service serves. Who does this service serve? And what he spends his money for. And I'm sure my colleague Moge will be even more capable of saying that than I am. Because he demanded a lot of information from this job, and he didn't get it, even though we all know he has it. And we have such a job that we hope to deceive ourselves publicly on these investigative commissions or on a committee to oversee intelligence services with some information. We've got nothing. However, if the former director wanted to give at least a fraction of the truth what Owl knows, he was relieved and retired within 14 days. This is the image of our Owl. If we look at the area of justice and the problems faced by our judges and those branches of government, they are too large to discuss here, because those of us who have been members of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice and who have also been in the previous term know that these are problems that have been going on for ten years. That we should be held accountable to those citizens when they are awaiting judicial proceedings after four, five years, even in civil suits, not just in criminal proceedings. And that these judgments do not come because the judges do not have the resources to employ additional labour, so that they can pay overtime and in some way stimulate them. I could've gone after some other ministries, but my intention is not to waste too much time doing this. My aim is to finally remind the government that Ljubljana is not Slovenia, but Ljubljana is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. And investment budgets will need to be adjusted so as to ensure a balanced regional development of all Slovenian cities. This is how the statistics show up. I believe them because they are professionally and thoroughly processed and also collected. And that in the Maribor Valley or in the Drava Valley in ten years, in this budget, I can point out that this is over 150 to 200,000 people. We all know that this has been and is an industrial city that has suffered great economic damage since 1990 because of the Balkans, because of independence and that there is at the very top of unemployment all this Drava Valley, but there is nowhere to be found in any regional programme such as the Ministry of Economy has dedicated to the Sava region, which has five times fewer inhabitants than the Drava Valley. I understand that they have a legal basis, but the Sava region is not only one region in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Sava region, unemployment is 12%. And that's where we should ask each other. And my performance, I would like to point out to the Government that the budget for the following year, which will be drawn up in the second month, also takes into account some statistics indicating that some regions are not only drav, premurska or Koroška, financially under-covered or that the government does not guarantee evenly all-Slovenian regional development. If I were able to obtain information on how many people from Drava Valley with a permanent residence in this valley drive daily to work in Ljubljana or the relative data vice versa, the numbers would be catastrophic. But this is a sad image and respected ministers, together with the Prime Minister, great dissatisfaction, regardless of the coalition, the opposition, the party, among the Members on the budget itself. I understand that every budget in the first year of some coalitions, in the first year of the coalition, is heavily burdened by the overloads of the past. However, it will be necessary to provide the budget in such a way as to ensure, once again, equitable regional development, not only in one area. I don't mean just in culture. Just like in Ljubljana, someone likes to go to the theatre, to the cinema, so are you in Maribor, in Prekmurje, in Ptuj or elsewhere, also in Primorska. Like the mines, the industry in Zasavje, they also have them in Prekmurje, they have them in Koroška, they have them in Celje, in Maribor and the government will have to start thinking about some other regional programmes. A number of amendments have been prepared and are ready to change the shape of this budget. If some amendments are not accepted, it is unlikely that my vote will not be supported in this part of the budget. I supported it in the first part, solely to get to this second part and to try to agree on some of the amendments that have been tabled and to at least slightly change the shape of the budget itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I've got two, three loudspeakers for the replicas. First, Mr Rudolf Moge, then Mr Barovic and also Mr Terchoon. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. In this bitter debate of the Champion of the Slovenian People's Party in Maribor, a fellow Member of Parliament, he would say that the situation as described is indeed true, and this is here in this discussion of the budget this is at the same time a picture of the city from which we are both coming as a Member and that it is not only bitter that we, as Members, have not done enough, but it is bitter that the people responsible for such a company, either on the rank of the state administration in Maribor, either on the local administration, or that, as leaders of public institutions and projects in Maribor, have not done the work that they should have done. And even the leaders of all the political parties of Maribor, on what colleague Kangler was talking about, we should imagine and somehow do our work in Maribor differently. However, if in Maribor everything is not as my colleague warned, I would say only a few things that personally make me see that the picture is improving. With people who want to help Maribor, it has happened that those who lead this development have achieved that Maribor no longer has stagnation in employment, but that employment is increasing that Maribor has income per capita 137%, says 37% above the average of Slovenia, and is one of the few municipalities that can only draw 20% of the investment funds from the country, it is said that this indicator is not so black-sighted. And if I tell you a little bit about how much the country puts in Maribor, see, just to finance the health institutions of Maribor City Hall from the health funds of Maribor 36 billion 377 million. The Ministry of Health has added 150 million to this. In Maribor, the Ministry of Health will invest 220 million dollars in health care investments in the homes of the local municipalities, in investments in the hospital for the eye and otolaringology department, and in the psychiatric department of 835 million dollars; in addition, if I continue, the state will give the University of Maribor 7 billion dollars, to the secondary schools 5.5 billion, to the primary schools 3.3 billion; in the field of investment Maribor will receive billions of 64 million dollars. And if you continue to do so, for example, in the field of culture, you will get: SNG Maribor billion 500, puppet theater 80 million. Investments will amount to 332 million, so only the Ministry of Culture in Maribor will give 2 billion 519 million, and could also include. The country doesn't look so stepmotherly at the place I come from. However, there is a problem somewhere else, respected colleagues and colleagues, that people who stand with us as MPs who we have promised the voters, in the most responsible places, should not argue with each other on such details that the leadership of the University of Maribor, this is the university city of Maribor, and leadership, for example, local communities cannot agree on where to put the statue of the first rector of the University of Maribor. These things are so that people will once, here 'Urbi et Orbi' I say, have to realize that they are in such places to serve people, not to try to do their will and to win with their personal ambitions and projects. I think that the debate that my fellow Member Kangler has triggered is also a part of the fact that the country will have to become more involved in this issue of Maribor. At the same time, I expect that my fellows and some people from the town of Drava, who hold the most responsible positions, will also be otherwise engaged in solving this problem. I'm sorry if I've been a little long, but this is just one part of the truth that we've told each other. I thank France Kangler, as a colleague from the second term, for revealing all these things once, publicly speaking here, and I think that this debate, which we have opened here, will also have a glimpse and consequences in the city itself and, of course, also in the country. I'll definitely help with these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. The replicas of colleagues Barovic, Kopišar, Terčon and Pece are in order. First of all, please, my colleague, that's how they told me the order. [[...]] My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I have already used the metaphorical institute of family and desire in the general debate, of course this is shown in this special part. Mr. Honorable Fellow Kangler, I must rephrase. Why? Firstly, my fellow Member, Sašo Peče, has tabled several amendments that have spoken for the good and for the development of the Maribor congregation, infrastructure and many things. You, in the coalition, have rejected the amendments on the current tape. You, the coalition, the ones Mr. Pece has invested in Maribor's welfare. Today, too, there will be an opportunity and opportunity to support the amendments that speak in favour of the development of the Maribor congregation. Another time. If there is anyone, believe me, the people in Zasavje are the ones who wanted to work. The evidence is that the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine has at least 25 years of net coal stocks. Construction of TET3 with all modern devices was offered. This country has ordered the closure of the Trbovlje-Bradnik mine, not to build a TET3. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is a state-owned company and the country as owner will, of course, have to and is bound morally and otherwise to take care of its people. And thirdly, if the same thing happened to Tam as with the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and with the development of the Zasavska region, as last time I called on you, my opposition colleague, I would also support you if you would be able to vote and introduce into this institution the state guarantee law for, I don't know, the development of some state company in Maribor, which the country deliberately wanted to close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. My colleague Gračner has the floor, followed by Comrade Terchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would like to refer to and continue my speech by my colleague, Mr Barovic. I understand Mr Kangler that he is taking his place, that he doesn't care, but I think it's very unfair that he points to other, even more problematic regions and even more problematic places with his finger on it, because all the problems he's listed are even worse and worse. Plus, we are still in a special position in Trbovje and Hrastnik, because in the future, the government has also decided that it will promise us to close the largest employment generator in Zasavje and, of course, all related activities. We must not forget that the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine has essentially supplied both Slovenia and Yugoslavia for over 200 years and has also contributed to the development we all receive today. You need to understand that closing mines is a special process, both dedication and with us. Slovenia is not such a country, nor is Europe that mines can be closed as they can be in Australia and the United States, when they are not closed and when costs are not required. The situation is that then everyone living in Trbovjevi and Hrastnik should move out of this town, because for over 200 years, there has been a bath under our soil and a ventilator and it is wrong to close now, I think we should move out of this place now. But to close these mines and all the other things that work on the ground are necessary costs and most of these resources will go safely to close the mines, to close these abandoned pits, which means that the ground will not sit there in the future. I can't deal with this, I can't accept that he pointed to Zasavje as a privileged region, because there we face the exact same problems that we face not only in Maribor, but also in all other regions and regions as I think in Slovenia. My replica referred to this part of the implementation, and this concludes my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much, colleague Gračner. Comrade Terchon has the floor, his colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a member of the second term. I must say that in the discussions on the budget I have most often encountered discussions related to Maribor with some kind of competition between Ljubljana and Maribor. I would like to say that we have one capital, this is Ljubljana, and that among the majority of the population is probably in the mood so that we already have this capital enough and that we do not need two major cities. As these debates have repeatedly raised the impression that we need somehow two major cities. Many times, the authorities have also succumbed to this. Thus, even the Ministry of Tourism has been placed in the most industrial city in Slovenia. There's been a lot of nonsense going on around here. I would not like this debate to turn into a bid, I see two MEPs from Maribor, who lecture on what the state has done and what not for the city of Maribor. The budget is the budget of the whole of Slovenia. But I think the problem lies somewhere else. It lies in the very system of the state of Slovenia, which is obviously too centralised. And that's the problem with power. So it is not only a problem in the relationship of Ljubljana - Maribor and please do not date me with information about how much Ljubljana will receive and how much Maribor will receive. Both cities have a university, which, in my opinion, is foreshadowed and not comparable, compete for the Ministry, for various state institutions, but Slovenia is not Ljubljana and Maribor, in the end they do not represent both a quarter of the total Slovenian population. So, the problem lies in the system or, in an over-centralized system. And that is not the problem with accepting this budget. But the fact is, we have a system that's too central. This is also reflected in the budget. And the fact is, at a global level, Slovenia has taken a major step forward since independence by looking at the criteria of gross social product, the standard, the degree of unemployment, although not, but that it has taken a major step back in the level of development between certain regions. The rate of development in Ljubljana or some of the developed regions against the underdeveloped regions has increased enormously. This is a debate that I hope we will carry out further in this mandate and that this country will be more regionalised and that budgets will also be more regional or that budgets will be allocated to institutions that will be more regional and channel money through a regional institution. Then these debates will fall away and we will ask ourselves something that we should ask ourselves today, even what we have done for the development of our place and not just what the state has to do for the development of our place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. A colleague of Peca, a colleague of Kangler and Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u151	A replica of a few debaters ahead of me, at the beginning of Mr. Tercheon. You know, Mr. Tarchoon, the easiest thing to do is talk. The easiest thing to do is to warn. But it's harder to try to fix mistakes. You're just talking. And speaking of the relationship Ljubljana - Maribor, I just need to come by. I come from the city of Maribor, and if I may, I do not ask you for permission, I take your quote, they run for the Ministry of Ljubljana and Maribor, why the Maribors complain. Because we get Ljubljana on the invitation to tender all the time. Isn't that a good reason, Mr. Tarchoon? Think about it. And the other thing. My colleague Bogdan Barovic is very fond of quoting different writers. But for all those speakers in front of me, when they are so widely praised in Maribor as they are for that local government of Maribor, say Mr Moze. Look who ended up in round nine at Dante's. However, all those who would really try to help the city support the amendments tabled by the Slovenian national party, which are unfortunately the only ones in this national assembly to talk about the financial resources provided before the year in the contractual obligations, but unfortunately the government has not included them in this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much, buddy. Comrade Kangler, his colleague Jerovšek and colleague Moze are also answering.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u153	I repeat to three colleagues, Mr Mohet, Mr Tarchoon and Mr Barovic. Mr Barovic and your colleague from Zasavje, read my magnetogram, and you will find that I do not oppose this regional programme in Zasavje. Read it! You didn't listen to me very well. I have pointed out that such a program is deserved by someone else in this country, not just Zasavje. That's what I've been stressing. My colleague Moze, I agree with you that I took a slightly more plastic painting myself, you're a little more financially, but you know for yourself, and you know that this picture is more or less clear just in the field of education and perhaps in the field of health. However, in the field of economy and on some other items, it is very bad. I also stressed that there are slightly better changes in education than in previous years. As far as you are concerned, Comrade Terchon, who first began to qualify as the capital, and Maribor, let me be honest with you. First of all, you said the Ministry of Small Economy was stupid. Did you say that or didn't you say it? Then you must also tell your party president and the Prime Minister that he is the one who allowed this nonsense in the previous term. Tell him that, too! If this was stupid for you, then your party president is doing stupid things. And then Maribor got a flower that went out three and a half years later. Mr Terčon, you probably also listened to one of your Members who, in his previous mandate, fought for the Maribor Rail Transport Directorate, who also said that liberal democracy had a congress in Maribor and that it had written in a congressional declaration that Maribor would flourish. Maribor with a single flower will never bloom, and it has escaped. And that is exactly what your Prime Minister helped when he abolished the Ministry of Small Economy. These statements are correct when we're talking about centralisation. If we want to prove this centralisation to the government and show it, we need specific information. However, these specific data are statistical data. Then why do we have the Bureau of Statistics? For some to be paid to just collect data, or for all those involved in any kind of budget, government, national assembly and anyone else to use these statistics? Statistical data should also be used, and these are indicators indicating such or other problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. No one is likely to want or limit this discussion. However, we will agree that long-standing experience teaches us this; it is worth following the debate. Every time we personalize it without need, we open up a field of new replicas. I would call on all colleagues and colleagues to try to stay, as far as possible, within the budgetary theme, although we are all aware that this is the most general debate in Parliament on the appointment of a government. So, as far as possible, I'm calling all the debaters. Now there's a pretty long list of subscribers who are trying to follow this as closely as possible. Comrade Jerovšek has the floor, followed by Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I am replicating more, but above all to Mr Mohet and Mr Kangler, because in their performances we noticed that they had been exposed. Even so, though they had a revelation, they evidently had no ascension. Or as there was no ascension for all of Styria. And for other regions that are lagging behind in their development. I would say of the current status that Styria and Mr. Kangler have landed in hell with him. However, Mr Moze is obviously in jokes after his further discussion. And that was Mr Moze obviously in jokes for the entire previous term. In fact, I remember four years ago, when we were setting up Drnovskov's government, he was very grateful for what the previous Drnovskov government had done for Maribor. So impressive, she did much after that, that I often heard that the Moroccans did not even know what the then government had done for Maribor. Despite the unemployment rate being around 25%. And also Mr Mojet's continued implementation, although he initially said that the bitterness resulting from Mr Kangler's performance was entirely true, and further implementation had shown that the treatment that was common in jokes had not yet been successful. And it's always leaking. Then, in the second part, he was once again grateful for what they had received in Maribor. I have a good test so we can figure out where the colleagues mentioned today. By the way, I must commend Mr Kangler's principle, as he opposed his previous government, the Bayuk government, and so does the current one. And look, I have a good test. Surely it is one of the most neglected areas for which I have been fighting for four years, while Minister Gunter has escaped me to the second resort, even though he has promised not many times to provide funds for the impoverished, flooded, affected Dravinjska Valley. Five years ago, at the time of the electoral campaign there in the city and he made sure that already in the 1996 budget, I don't know whether 100 million or 200 million. I stay with these modest resources and every year, even this year, 200 million. However, Minister Gantar is no longer in this area, Minister Kopač is in the illegal state as I mentioned before the day, he is not here today, but there is not a small fraction, nor a small fraction, but despite the fact that there are 800 hectares every year I do not know how many times flooded there, that people cannot live there, that it is such an area on the edge of Haloz, and the part of Haloz, which is full of understanding at the performances of ministers and this government. Laws have been adopted which have also stated that the area will receive development incentives, according to the law on the promotion of regional development. And I ask that on this test, one of the most neglected areas, including all the Halozas, I have already proposed several times that Haloze should be given the same law as we have for Zasavje because it is more worthy of the said colleagues, who are so concerned about some justice, for regional development, evenly to support this 200 million-million-dollar amendment concerning the Dravinj Valley, this is the Ministry of Environment and Space, Water Management. I think that the appeal of those Members would be the best chicken to come from jokes to heaven and live in a full saintly glow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u156	Mr Jerovšek relies on Dante not being able to replicate him, so his colleagues Moga, Barovic, Tarčon and Kangler will do so. Once again, I ask that we try to limit the discussions that are not directly linked to the budget as much as possible. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u157	President, thank you very much. The doctor's dissertation of the regiliosal processing of the performances of our colleague Kangler convinced me that you're an extremely wise man and I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We appreciate that. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u159	30 seconds, if you please. Comrade Kangler, I fully understand. I just wanted to explain it to you. And I'm really going to use Dostoy crime and punishment. You said it was Zasavje that it deserved others to deserve it. Maybe I'd think it was punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Comrade Terchon, my colleague Kangler is behind him, and I no longer have any applications for replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm replicating Mr. Seal first. He mentioned and compared Ljubljana and Maribor again. I only warned that over three quarters of Slovenia is out of Ljubljana and Maribor. So much for a little while. As far as Mr Kangler is concerned, I would like, Mr Kangler, to go together and see if you and I are going to look at the magnetogram together, as far as stupidity and the Ministry of Tourism are concerned, I have expressed myself, not for a small economy. I said that we put the Ministry of Tourism in the most industrial Slovenian city, but I said that there was a lot of stupidity about decentralisation. With regard to the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism, if this wasn't nonsense, you'll have to convince me, Mr. Kangler. I am pleased, however, to discuss Mr Jerovška, who warned that Slovenia is not only Ljubjana and Maribor and that there is at least a difference in the budget between Maribor and other parts of Stajerska. My main warnings went only two ways to stop being lectured in this budget between Ljubljana and Maribor and to warn the authorities, which is the authority we support, Mr Kangler, at least so it would be appropriate to centralise the country, that this country is too centralised, which is an attribute in fact to the restless and undeveloped countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. I'm not gonna replicate it to my buddy Tarchoon. I'm quitting. However, there is no way I can go past Mr Jerovsk's fellow Member. If by his performance he had just proved that he was subject only to party discipline, when he mentioned that I opposed the Bajuk government and to this one. Comrade Jerovšek, that I opposed Bajuk's government, I confess. And I'll tell you why. Your party president has the highest credit. Comrade Bajuk, when we elected the government, promised before the 28 Members, before the blind Dr. Možgan, that he would not replace any minister of the Slovenian People's Party. If I am lying, here are all the Members who were present at the time of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u164	Comrade Kangler, this is not the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u165	Why don't I support, I'll tell [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u166	This is certainly not the subject of a budgetary debate [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u167	Let me finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u168	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u169	Then, with the help of your President, Comrade Bajuk replaced five of our ministers for a period of three months. And that was one of the reasons why someone didn't stick to his word. But if I am in this House, no matter what kind of client my client comes from, and what position my client is in, I note the problems and problems I face in the environment I live in and where I come from, it does not mean that I do not support this government. But if you should think as one person thinks, as the party president thinks, if you have such a style of work in your parliamentary group, Comrade Jerovšek, we have the image of democracy in the parliamentary group a little bit different and we explain it to ourselves in another way, as you said a little earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u170	I see there's no wish for a replica, which is good. Otherwise, I would not have allowed this debate to continue. My colleague Sok has waited a long time, and now I'm giving him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, I must tell you that I am concerned about the acting of Vice-President of this National Assembly, who, in a way contrary to the Rules of Procedure, had previously set out and failed to take account of the proposal of the national party or Mr Jelinčič. I hope that this will not be the case and that, despite the majority of the coalition in this House, the Rules of Procedure will be respected. Otherwise it is without any value the debate, us opposition Members and the warning of certain matters, including irregularities. So much for not giving me a word before when I wanted to respond to her decision. What I think is essential about this particular part of the budget I would like to say. I'll try to be brief. See, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the government, Slovenians and Slovenes, in fact, are fewer from year to year. Even yesterday, the adoption of the law on artificial fertilisation will not help and we live in a vicious circle, the population is getting older, the population is getting smaller, and the economy is taking on an ever-increasing weight. What I think and what should be a priority in our budget, and I think that part of this debate before me has also taken place in this sense, is that in Slovenia we should keep mainly the preservation and settlement of the space in order to preserve the cultural landscape and, accordingly, produce sufficient healthy and quality food in the countryside. For nothing in the future will help us any further economic development if we lose these opportunities, which we still have in Slovenia opposite the European Union at this time. In this regard, while preserving the space and preserving what we have, I would like to highlight three areas in this budget, which I think are particularly important and somehow raise concerns within me. The first is the area of transport. See, for the transport sector this year, only 1.3% more funding is nominally allocated than last year, which means that the real budget for this ministry is falling by 5.4%. Taking into account all the things you said earlier about overtime means that this area is poorly written, and the roads are precisely the development moment of this country, which should be built, so that the countryside can maintain contact with the city and that our economy in Slovenia can develop evenly and rapidly. Of course, this will not be possible with the budget we have before us. Another area of concern is the area of local self-government. For the area of local self-government, we devote 4.1% more this year than last year, while the whole budget increases by 17.8%, which means that other costs increase by 13.7% faster than those we want to spend in local self-government in the area of municipalities. It seems to me that all of this leads to some form of centralisation that is good for the development of our rural people, and that is also why young people from rural areas, because they do not find sufficient development opportunities there, are evicted and in this way are demographically poor and socially poor. The third area, which I think is crucial and one of the most important areas in Slovenia's proximity to the European Union, is agriculture. In the area of agriculture, we have seen price policies of agricultural products constantly deteriorate, prices of agricultural products continue to decline, while prices of agricultural products continue to rise. In some ways, these price scissors are increasingly spreading and what this is supposed to compensate is supposed to be a system of direct payments in the field of agriculture. This is also the only requirement that the European Union requires of us. However, since we do not follow these requirements sufficiently in this area and I think the financial resources for these direct payments are far too small, we will be expected to join the European Union in the field of agriculture, and the question is whether Slovenia will be able to join the European Union in this way. I'll finish right away, just one more sentence, if you don't mind. In the debate, it was said by Mr Horvath that we are acting in a two-faced manner and that we are increasing the budget with amendments. I would say no, at least as far as the opposition is concerned, because the opposition did not participate in the formation of the budget and we are not increasing the budget with the amendments, but we are only proposing some internal allocations between the various items. As for Mr Kangler's long debate, I invite him to join the opposition and then he will be able to discuss it in the way he is here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u172	I repeat, this is not the subject of this debate. My friend Kebrich kindly gave up the replica. Does my colleague Kramberger want to discuss it? Then we'll move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. I applied to the debate because, in fact, agriculture had not been mentioned at all until the moment that colleague Sok discussed agriculture. On our committee, we had a debate on this issue in the framework of the budgetary debate, and I must say that, as far as budget support for agriculture is concerned, our agriculture, nicely said, is very malnourished. We should have at least 10 billion resources to do what we have to do if we want to join the European Union in 2003 or 2004; we should be prepared to prepare our farms in accordance with our programme, eco-social farms. We need to prepare these farms at the primary level so that primary agricultural production can "survival" this Europe, and also at the institutional level, we need to prepare agriculture. I hope to say that if we do not do so, history will repeat itself, as it did before World War II, when at least in border areas, when our land was in the hands of others, of course we all wish that history would not repeat itself in that sense. So at least 10 billion more should be at this point in time to come to this. I must stress that agriculture is not only the responsibility of the agricultural ministry. This is the responsibility of the entire government. And I am particularly saddened when I read the budget memorandum, not by a word is agriculture mentioned. This is also an attitude towards agriculture itself. And, colleagues and colleagues, we're going to have to think, now that the budget is what it is, we can't really change it. For the next period, so for a two-year period, as it is said that we will be preparing a second budget, we will have to realise that we will, of course, change this. So much. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u174	Thank you. That's how the list of speakers is exhausted. Would you like another word? Yes, please, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It wouldn't be right if I didn't pick up a little bit because I'm coming from the part we call the earthquake area. At the beginning of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly last week, I asked when the earthquake law would come to the debate. And today's debate, if I compare it with an earthquake law, then I have to say, over the past three years, 500 million dollars per year for development in Soča, under the Earthquake Restoration Act and the Development of Soča. And for the future, the current bill tabled by the government is only 400 million tolars per year, which is 0.33 percent of the state budget. Do you not feel that when this law comes into your mind, that we will have to double it according to today’s debate? Because 400 million is really little against the billions we're talking about today. In addition, I would also like to say something about that part of my country, our country, which is on the other side of the former Rapal border. There's no way the highways can get near the state border and to Koper. I'm sure we're the culprits here to make this work. I was criticized for saying I was guilty. Only, the highway plans and today's plan, so the budget of the Republic of Slovenia we accept. I've also looked at some of the State Road Directorate's facilities. 745 facilities are in this review and on the other side, which I named on the other side of the Rapal border, are only 39 or 5 percent. At 32 percent of the area of the Republic of Slovenia. Very little. I think we'll have to think a little bit more about these things when we talk about drawing up a 2002 budget plan, three and four. Let us also think that, before our mandate is completed, there will be no State borders with Italy and that we will be connected to Italy perhaps only two roads, as we have done so far, there will probably not be a good card for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, and we will soon move on to a decision on the amendments. My friend Pucko wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the adoption of the budget process has not received the word of the mother working body, before we proceed to the decision, because I believe that, at such a stage, we have not supported only one amendment, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, to inform you that the Committee, at its meeting in the course of its consideration of the amendments tabled by the 23 Members, has not supported only one amendment, namely the amendment under number 1 of the review of the amendments, and that, at the same time, it has submitted six amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at least five days before the beginning of this meeting. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to ask you to support these six amendments to the Committee, and I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We are concluding the general debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 20.4.2001. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 221 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budgetary user to which the amendments are tabled. We will first vote on the amendments of the parliamentary groups and then on the amendments of the parent working body. In accordance with the explanation, I am putting to the debate and decision the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signature of the Zalokar Orazem Cvetka, which the Government does not support, the mother's working body supports. In particular, the amendment to the sub-programme, the preparation of expert bases for local self-government and professional assistance to local authorities and services with the budgetary user of the local self-government service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u179	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Before deciding and being able to define this amendment, I would very much like to have an explanation from the proposer or the first-signed amendment or from the competent minister. On the one hand, welcome is this amendment, which in some ways gives the possibility that the so-called institutions that form so-called associations of congregations will be given the first opportunity to co-finance their activities so far. In Slovenia there has been a so-called permanent conference of municipalities and on the other side of the association of municipalities for a long time. None of these institutions have yet acquired the status of a national association. I would therefore like to clarify whether both institutions will receive these funds, which are proposed in the amendment form. The problem is that this is a proposal from the Group of Members. If this were a government proposal, there would also be a clear explanation. That's not exactly the way it is from the explanation. Therefore, I think that a clear answer should be received before deciding on this amendment. If these funds are to be shared in proportion to the key of the two institutions, I think that the amendment will have to be supported. Otherwise, since Slovenia has not yet been granted the status of a national association in the field of the interests of the municipalities, if these funds were intended for only one of the organisations, this would be very bad and should not be accepted by such an amendment. Therefore, either from the competent ministry, I think that this area is covered by the Ministry of the Interior, or by the proposer, Mrs Orzmov would have a clear explanation as to whether these funds would be earmarked for both or only one of these active associations so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Wants to explain to the proposer, the Flowers of Zalokar Orazam? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The explanation is what it is, given the situation in this area. In fact, the situation at this point is anarchic, we know this, even though last year the municipality of Slovenia met its legal obligations to obtain the status of the national association. It has obtained a sufficient number of municipalities, as well as a sufficient number of people involved, which consists of this municipality, which is also a legal condition. Later, however, a constitutional dispute was brought about by another association, a largely smaller association, which only claims to cover small congregations. At the Presidency of the municipalities of Slovenia, we agreed that, in so far as this association will be granted national status and in view of the last talks that took place during the visit of the European Commission, a delegation representing Slovenia before the European associations would include a proportionate number of members of the Slovenian Union. In short, if he goes to Strasbourg or another body of six delegates, then one or two delegates will also be from another, a smaller association. In any case, I reiterate that, at this time, the community of the municipalities of Slovenia is extremely concerned that, regardless of its national status, it participates in all consultations and all congresses at European level, and I do not think that Europe will understand these internal disputes. This year, I warn you, in May, at Congress, Slovenia is also the central point [[I think it's May 29th in Strasbourg and Slovenia is on the agenda]] . If, of course, we carry these internal conflicts out, there is no benefit. However, arrangements between the management of the two associations have been ongoing and have been correct all the time, and I do not think that it would be difficult in the future for such delegations to actually be able to come together.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I have not received a clear answer from Mrs Orzmova's reply to the question whether these funds will be earmarked for both associations or only for one. As I understand it, only one. In this case, this would be a dangerous precedent for this national assembly and also for the state. Indeed, the status of a national association has not yet been granted. Both associations work for the interests of the municipalities, and in some ways the plurality of these institutions is ensured in the European Union. Therefore, I think that if we accepted the amendment in this form, as I have now seen from your reply, this would be a dangerous precedent, and in some ways would be the abolition of the possibility that the community association could participate equally, as well as part of the plurality in the functioning and organisation of the municipalities, in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u185	I apologize to Mr. Rokavac, but he must have misunderstood me. Until the status of the national association has been regulated, so until the Constitutional Court's decision has been reached, it is in our opinion that the funds benefit both associations, or any other, in the event of an accident. We highly respect that it's plural and I think it's the only right thing to do. And even across Europe, if we had the opportunity to monitor things, there are several associations in most countries. It is true, however, that in most countries there is also an association, one that is the largest and that meets their criteria, a national status. In the absence of this national status and the need to represent the country at this level, the funds will then be earmarked for the international cooperation of the two associations. Once national status has been granted, however, it will also determine which national association is then representing outside. However, I then said more that in the Presidency of the Communities we agreed that we are also in this state willing to include the union of Slovenian municipalities in order to participate in international work. So, in any case, these funds are intended for both associations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u187	Thank you. I wouldn't go into the content of the amendment, but if I understood correctly, the mother's working body supports this amendment. The government doesn't support him. This is an illogical matter in the sense that formerly, Comrade Pucko invited us to follow the committee's decisions. [[...]] Our parliamentary group would like to follow the Government's proposal, not the committee in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Squirrel. I guess you didn't get me right. I have made it very clear that I suggest you support the amendments of the committee. That's not an amendment to the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u191	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I thank the Committee on Finance, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the two amendments we have tabled have been accepted as its amendments. These two amendments concern the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education. One of the ministries of finance brings certain funds to investments at the Ministry of Education, where it belongs, while the other raises funds at the Ministry of Finance for primary-school investments. Given that we have also received some Members through the heads of the parliamentary groups, where he has sent a desperate letter to the Director of Security and Intelligence, that this money means an irreplaceable source for normal functioning, I think it is wise that we then accept the financing amendment under number 3, of course, with the correction where the source is elsewhere, but not with the Ministry of Intelligence anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u192	Thank you very much. However, Mr Mogue, we are on the front page of the review and when we come to the sub-programme that you are now talking about, where the three amendments would ask that this explains the sub-programme. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group and on the basis of this interpretation, which we have now heard, that these funds will be distributed until it is decided who has national status in Slovenia, if we need it as such, because we have ensured that these funds will be distributed between the two organisations that now exist, we will also support this amendment, but only because we have obtained this guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Committee did not wish to adopt such an amendment on the Committee on Finance. We rejected him by 8 votes to 2. However, when we addressed the amendments tabled on behalf of the parliamentary groups, this amendment was the first one, and because the government did not define itself very quickly, we ignored that we had rejected this amendment. That is why there was support for the Finance Commission and monetary policy if we did not vote against it at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to highlight the following for the magnetogram. At Friday's meeting on 13 this month, a proposal was made to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to make this amendment an amendment to the Committee. However, the amendment has not received sufficient support, and so this has not become an amendment to the Committee and this amendment is not at all, but it is before us or in the review of only the amendment, which is then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I repeat in accordance with the rules of procedure which the Committee has decided and supported. And that's what you have to say about the magnetogram. We decide exclusively on the amendment under number one, which has been tabled in accordance with Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, first signed by colleague Zalokar Cveto Orazm, that there will be no misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u199	Once again, before we decide, I urge you to think about it. I think the problem is that I know very well because I have been involved in this association for many years. This association is an important institution within our system. One and the other. And I'm not stretching any of these two associations. It is true, however, that there is a significant difference in the number of members involved. One of the associations met all the conditions for it to become a national association in last May because it has 120 Slovenian municipalities, but the other association triggered a constitutional dispute. Anyone who knows the law on local self-government knows that a national association is in law and that the law is also a diction of what the conditions are. Some may have felt that no one would ever succeed, but the community succeeded in gaining 12o of Slovenian municipalities in its kind. And if this country is able to afford it at an international stage, at congresses and at other matters with this level of authority, at local level, no one represents it, then reject this amendment. We cannot and do not have the financial resources to ensure the regular representation of our delegates. Among other things, this year is the Yule Congress in Rio de Janeiro, and no one will go and can't go because there are no funds. This is illegal spending from municipal budgets. We can block this branch of the Slovenian authorities, but I think they're already pulling us by the ears here in Europe, that we're not right enough, we haven't done enough. We have no other degree of authority, but this third, which is supposed to unite and which is significantly more important in many European countries than in us, and, of course, we want to weaken, above all, that we do not have one of the partners. Then probably there should not be so many mayors in the National Assembly where the interests of the municipalities could also be exercised through this association.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. As far as I am concerned, it would be better if there were no mayors in this National Assembly and then this National Assembly would be less local. If some, I know what this matter looks like, they want to travel to Rio de Janeiro, to collect membership from their municipal budgets and to be financed from it until any community gains a status that will also act in the public interest. As long as it's not, this amendment shouldn't even be here on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič, we had a rather local-coloured debate earlier, and I do not object to such debates, and no mayor participated in this debate, as far as I know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u204	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I think that this offer, which Mrs Zalokar is conveying, would in some way be incorrect, because in this case it would be there, this small association would actually be a subsidiary of a larger association, and it would simply mean that it just kind of joins in and flows into one of the two associations. We therefore oppose such a proposal, even though I am not a member of either association. This matter is somehow not correct - either we support two or we do not support any. I do not think that this way these two associations, which are two legal persons, can function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we're passing Dr. Bayuk, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Just an additional explanation for all colleagues as well. The fact is that the union of municipalities cannot obtain legal status because the statistical office of the government does not do so because it considers that there is no legal basis for this. The assurance we have heard today that this will actually be divided for both institutions is not as clear as it sounds. And I'd like to see if there's any further explanation as to that. Otherwise, I would have changed my mind and could not support it, because we do not have sufficient assurance on the basis of those words alone, because the actions of the government in this regard are far from clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will vote on the amendment now under discussion. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 27. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on the three amendments to the sub-programme "Investment and Development Programmes of municipalities" with the budgetary user of the Ministry of Finance. That is, under number 1, the amendment of the first-signed group of Members. The amendment proposed by the group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet, the amendment does not support, nor does the Government of the Amendment, nor does it support the mother's labour force, because this amendment is summarized in the amendment of the Committee under order number 3 and is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. By informing you that the additional report of the Committee on Finance of 20.4.2001 shows that the amendment of the Committee under number 3 has been amended in paragraph 2 [[This amendment can be seen from the supplementary report to the supplementary draft budget, namely the report of the Committee]] . I am putting to the debate all three of these amendments to the sub-programme "investment and development programmes of municipalities". Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly discuss the third amendment. This is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is evident in the fact that it first proposed that an increased sub-programme of investment and development programmes to municipalities of 100 million tolars should be increased, first of all, the proposal was that this money should be found under the heading ‘Intelligence Security’. And because obviously the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency is in person, especially the director of mags. Tomaža Lavrenčič announced and rightly warned that this is the only way to take this institution simply seriously, of course, there has come an even wiser decision now and 100 million, say and write, take up the area of justice, the main programme, 0905 correction of past rights. However, I would like to ask the Government's distinguished representatives whether this solution has brought to the attention of the Justice Department and how they can justify simply taking 100 million tolars from this item on the last day before the adoption of the budget. If that is the case, I absolutely cannot support this amendment because it is inherently incorrect and bold. I also hear that the government didn't get this amendment. Yeah, how come she didn't get it if she suggested it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Earlier in the debate, we had heard that the area of local self-government in terms of enlargement, I would say extremely malnourished, that the index does not even follow inflation, that many regions and many areas are completely out of budget, and in this part also in some way the municipalities have been subject to a number of obligations over the last two years through changes in legislation and various rules. Therefore, I propose that all those municipalities that are not urban and receive financial compensation be allocated additional funds for development programmes. By the way, these municipalities are those municipalities that have absolutely no possibility of prescribing any other benefits to introduce parking spaces and similar things. Therefore, in this part, they have significant difficulties in carrying out their investments. By the way, even the average population of the area to which this programme or this proposal relates is extremely sub-average, which means that the roads are extremely expensive to the population of utilities. And, as a rule, these municipalities, through the existing source, cannot in fact provide even the work that could be a partner part of the co-financing fund of the country. In view of the discussion that has been going on all afternoon, which has addressed the area of local self-government and development problems, I expect that you will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u213	I think it's most typical in this part to talk about what someone would like to do about what they call local self-government, their environment and so on. The money in this area is absolutely insufficient and only long-term programmes are likely to provide at least partial funding for investments mainly in primary education and what needs to be done. I think it would be inappropriate if we supported the amendment of the Group of Members with Mr Rudi Mohet, because this would be the only amendment that takes from one area and puts it in another area. Everything else is happening within individual areas and possible reserves, with which the government will be able to redistribute to those consumers who would be in a situation during the year in order not to be able to carry out their activities. Therefore, in my opinion, it is right that the Security Intelligence Service "return" - in quotations, of course, because it had nothing - those estimated 100 million, as they were taken away, and 200 million after one amendment, and that this address, which I know in one way or another, is still underfunded, is provided by 100 million inside items, as set out in the amended amendment of the Committee. I am going to vote myself, and I propose, of course, to others that we remain consistent and principled forward and that we do not change individual items in this way, because this can cause problems to other consumers. And I believe that the Security Intelligence Service was just planning what was envisaged in terms of their programme. But I am aware, of course, that in the coming years, there is likely to be a local self-government and so on, as it is called, the transfer to municipalities and so on, should be increased on the basis of this, not through amendments where other consumers would be "take over" in quotations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to point out that the Government supports this complementary amendment proposed by the Home Committee. We believe that this is more meaningful. We are devoting additional resources to that area, which, of course, needs undoubtedly, which has also been under discussion for quite some time today. However, I would like to say that we have reached a compromise on the home committee, and these are the funds of the Ministry of Finance. We still do not know exactly how much will be needed from this address. This means, of course, that we have taken the risk of reaching a compromise and we will have to redistribute the funds. However, these are contractual obligations, the correction of injustices, which means that in any case we will pay whatever comes from this title. In short, we will provide funds for this purpose and thus provide them within the Ministry of Finance. By suggesting that you support this amendment proposed by the mother's working body
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. I would say, above the Minister's explanation, in a way, I am very disappointed. The proposal made by the mother's working body is a drop against what I have proposed. That 100 million on 192 congregations basically means absolutely nothing. It means a few 100,000 on average to each congregation. The proposal I have proposed is worth about 4 billion 400, referring to the 160, 170 most problematic communities that are sub-capitalised, which are dealing with major development problems and problems. And I think that this way, with promises, with pigeons on the roof of these problems that arise in local self-government cannot be solved. And in a way, I am very disappointed with the Minister's comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we're going through an apology. [[...]] Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Things need to be cleared up. I have been very attentive to the performance of the Minister. This is partly the second topic that my colleague Tanka was talking about, this is this unfortunate third amendment. It is true, the article also states justice, this is the area of the correction of past injustices, and it is formally under the jurisdiction of the Finances Department. And here is a special item on the way out of court decisions, and already 100 million have been lost in the supplementary draft budget. The free-hearted minister says there's 100 left to go. So we could run out of 300 or 200 more. This is the item where it can be stretched and can be bigger or smaller. And interestingly, just the item "repair of past injustices" is the one on which these gold reserves are sought. It's disgusting to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u221	I have not embarked on items which are intended for reallocation in this area as well. However, I believe that the Ministry of Finance, to which this item belongs, within its reserves and the possibility under the law on the implementation of the budget to redistribute these items within the lines, is the most correct. What is imposed on the government to pay, of course, will have to be paid by the government, because of this, of course, it is incriminating and the court sits on the budget to make it very easy to say. So that is the most secure item for those who will receive damages after judgements, it is undeniable that this country is so much and more legal that those who are sued in the courts against the State get paid for it. And it seems to me that, really, if we really want to get a guarantee from the government that something will come true, this opportunity to hang on to those items that he has to pay, if not, will force her into this court. So there is no talk of just getting the item, correcting the injustices, which, of course, relates to individual rights arising from decisions and lawsuits, and I don't know what else, and of course the state has to pay it if it doesn't take it out of the budget, at least that's how it should be. And I believe that's true in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u223	Just for a little while. A brief replica of colleague Anderlich. That's how you hold it. Hold what you said. So what, or do we make a consistent conclusion from this: to the groups, to the Members I suggest that those who have tabled the amendments, let the source change, and go to this source. Because, according to this logic, we can also take 500 million more here because the state will have to pay for the court's decisions. It's this twisted, this principle, I don't accept it. Great. You found the source. It's the repair of past injustices. On a symbolic level, that's incorrect. That's distasteful. But you're right. We can take 600 million here. If there is anything wrong with it, if it is not coordinated, I suggest we finally adopt an additional amendment to take another billion here, at least the government will have to pay for the rulings. That's distasteful.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u225	There is really no need for us to politicize this for long and wide. This is a reserve, this is a reserve, and at this point the funds are not really allocated until they are used and if they are spent by the end of the year or if these costs are incurred up to that amount, this will be used. Otherwise, this reserve for other things will be used as it is on other items called reserves. From this point of view, there is really no need for us to polymerize further.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u227	Perhaps part of this misunderstanding is also the problem of classification and what it all refers to. If you look at this page 2194, you see that you have rectification of past injustices, account 0905 and then you have within this compensation by judgment. And within that there are items, damages based on court rulings. In fact, it is not just the expenditure that comes out, as if someone thought it was the injustices that happened to individuals, but it is also the lawsuits of legal persons. Of course, we cannot know in advance exactly how many lawsuits will be received and how much will be spent. And if you look at the amount of this sum that's reserved on the basis of past numbers, you see it's about 2 billion. I think that in this case there is a reserve that will, of course, be used during the year and we must of course ensure that the judgments are enforced and that in this case we go with 5% or 10% of this item.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we will vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 41. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 10 votes against 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 14. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has been accepted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on the two amendments to the sub-programme "support of Slovenians in exchange and abroad" with the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in substitution and worldwide. Under 1 is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Under 2 is the amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. At the time of this amendment under number 2, which the Government supports, I would like to say that this increase in these funds, which otherwise relate to the whole of this item, is meant not to have a misunderstanding later on, as an increase in funding for the bilingual school in Špetr. If we understand things correctly, then there is no need for consent. If there's anything else that's meant to be, then I'd ask you to clear these things up. Otherwise, I believe that this money will allow the school to expand its activity, given that for the first time in its history, the number of children enrolled has happened so that they need additional space and that this school is also ready for the new status it will have, I hope, passed the law recently adopted in both chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has not been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which the Government supports to the sub-programme "training and functioning of the emergency intervention system" with the budgetary user of the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. For the budgetary user, the sub-programme "fire safety" has another amendment, the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Visians, who are not supported by the government, are also not the mother's working body. First of all, I am opening a debate on these two amendments to the two sub-programmes under the budgetary user of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u231	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I support the amendment under point 1 of the sub-programme "training and operation of the emergency intervention system". The entire item of the Directorate of Protection and Rescue is maintained. In fact, there is a reason from time on, I regret to say, from the Bajuk government, because at the time they carried out the austerity procedures in the budget, almost 1 billion tolars were taken from this item if you look at the plan and until the realization of the year 2000. This then continued in the 2001 programme, because it was just an indexation of the 2000 implementation. This has led to the fact that, in practice, the Directorate for Protection and Rescue is facing an extremely difficult situation, in particular because of its obligations over the past years. In particular, this item is intended to educate and train members of civil protection and firefighters. Without this additional money, the Ig education centre will in fact be in a tight spot because it will simply not be able to cover the costs of training this structure in the field of protection and rescue. At the same time, I do not support another amendment, especially for the reason that essentially placing 95 million tolars in the fire safety item in the Protection and Rescue Authority will not solve firefighting in the area of local communities, because you will not be able to define and locate these assets in individual firefighting organisations and firefighting units. These matters should be redistributed directly to the congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot agree with the predecessor in the second part of support for the second amendment. See, when discussing value added tax and some attempts to reduce or even exempt the tax rate for firefighting equipment or rescue and motor vehicles intended for voluntary firefighting, it was clear to us by the Ministry of Finance or by the competent State Secretary that we should seek other system-wide funding for voluntary firefighting. We need to know that voluntary fire and fire is a public service at all times, compulsory by the State, which imposes certain tasks on it but does not provide the necessary resources. This is pointed out by many fire liaisons, and the way funding is poor and inappropriate and inadequate is clear. This amendment is an experiment based on an opinion and the position of the Ministry of Finance in order to directly provide higher funds in the budget for these purposes. I believe that fire liaisons and individual societies at local level will be able to systematically distribute these funds, so this amendment is aimed primarily at enabling these people who are concerned with saving both life and property to work in a normal and modern manner, which will certainly also affect their effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u234	Replica, Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u235	Of course I have a replica because it doesn't hold. If you put these 95 million tolars in this set, the local firefighting organizations will have nothing to do with it. The financing of firefighting organisations is under the exclusive competence of local communities. At the national level, a so-called fire fee is collected, the purpose of which is to establish the law and also to determine the division. With this here, when you give these 95 million tolars, you won't achieve what you want. Believe me, I've known this system very well, I've been for a long time, I've been the director of the fire brigade for a while, and I know the whole system, and I also know how to access such resources. If you put these things, this part of the amount in the Protection and Rescue Department, simply in your fire organizations, what you really want, this money will not come to this fire organization. This money will be devoted elsewhere, in general research, to the acquisition of funds at national level, but certainly not to what you want to achieve, greater fire safety in local organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First of all, we decide on the amendment to the sub-programme for training and operation of the emergency intervention system, which is proposed by the committee and is on sheet number 4 of the review. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And now we are voting on the amendment in Letter No 5, whose proposer is a group of Members. We vote There are 67 Members and Members of Parliament. The vote was 12, against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on amendments to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economy. Amendments to the six sub-programmes have been tabled for this budgetary user. These are listed from sheet number 5 to 10 of the amendments. The sub-programme 'Development Regional Programmes, Direct Regional Incentives' has been amended by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which the government supports. Two amendments were tabled for the sub-programme "enhancing the use of renewable energy sources" at Sheet 6. Under the 1st amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andre Bajuk. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does the mother's working body. And under the two amendments of a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Visians, who are not supported by the government, are also not the mother's working body. An amendment from a group of Members, signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk, who is not supported by the government, has been tabled to the sub-programme "business restructuring". Two amendments were tabled to the sub-programme "Incentivizing Economic Development". Under the 1st amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Victory, which is not supported by the government, neither is the parent working body. Under 2 is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Visians, who are not supported by the government, are also not the mother's working body. The sub-programme "encouraging the development of tourism and hospitality" has been tabled as an amendment to this sub-programme, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Visians, who are not supported by the government, are also not the mother's working body. Two amendments were tabled under the sub-programme 'Social Protection and Compensation for Production Restructuring', the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed mags. Andrey the Visians, who are not supported by the government, are also not the mother's working body. And under the 2 amendments of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dr Andre Bajuk, which the Government does not support, neither does the mother's working body. I am opening a debate on the amendments to these six sub-programmes under the budgetary user. Who wants to discuss it? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u237	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members of Parliament! I'm calling for amendment number one. In particular, it is a matter of transferring resources into the use of the acquisition and distribution of energy raw materials. I propose a distribution of these funds of 48 million tolars in favour of the item "Interventions of renewable energy sources. Slovenia depends largely on energy from abroad." Stocks of our fossil fuels are going to run out sooner or later, so we're going to be witnessing constant energy growth. There is a great deal of investment in developed companies in promoting the use of renewable energy sources. There are many possibilities for renewable energy use in Slovenia. Environmental awareness also requires us to take care of reducing emissions to the environment. Use [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u238	Dr. Bernick, if you'll excuse me, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to calm down a bit so that Dr. Bernick can have a normal discussion. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u239	renewable energy sources have a positive impact on the environmental system's balance, which is why their use needs to be accelerated. [[...]] I propose that these funds be redeployed from the Office of the President of the State because it has a relatively small legal particle. Therefore, the budgetary resources must be in proportion to the tasks managed by that State authority. But if you'll excuse me, Madam President, I'd say this. To see all this acceptance of these amendments in this way, I've already seen it on the Finance Committee, that it went down the running lane no, no, no. All we have put forward is, therefore, that I would also suggest to Members here that, perhaps when the rules of procedure change, it is said that if the government has the majority or the majority it has now, in order to remove all these formalities, the government does not support anything, but we go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u241	Respectable present. Explanation to the amendment of the Slovenian national party with the first signed Zmaža Jelinčič, which is on page 8 of the list of amendments. I believe that one of you is one who has the right to decide for himself. And that's exactly why I'm going to make an explanation so that you know what this amendment is trying to accomplish. We are simply convinced that integration into European integration does not only have positive consequences, but to a certain extent it is also necessary to protect the domestic economy. Expectation also in advance, haste, adaptation of Slovenian legislation to European legislation. We further know that some mistakes will be made in order to cause damage to the economy in our country, and at least to the minimum of protection to this area, I propose that you support this amendment by your vote and thereby protect the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision in order. We will first decide on the amendment of the Committee to the sub-programme "development regional programmes, direct regional incentives". We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme "encouraging the use of renewable energy sources". First of all, we will decide on the amendment under number one, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "restructuring businesses", which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 11 to 36. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme "encouraging economic development". First of all, we are voting on the amendment number 1 of which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Victory. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number 2, whose proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 10 votes against 39. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "Promoting the development of tourism and hospitality", which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 to 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme "Social Protection and Compensation for Appeal Restructuring". First of all, we are voting on an amendment under 1 which is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 to 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under 2, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andrey Bajuk. Vote explanation, Dr. Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is an amendment, reaching in, so to speak, into the body of our people. This is because we want to give money to people who have suffered for many years because of asbestos, those who worked and those who lived there. I think this amendment should, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] to recall what has happened in past times. [[...]] Since I'm lucky to have a wife from that end, I'm very well aware of this problem. In ancient times, Salonit acquired funds from the International Monetary Fund to invest filters. But she didn't use these filters at night. When the man got up, he could see that it was almost snowing there, so the floor, the cars and so on were covered with this dust. You can think of what it did for the people who worked there. None of the doctors who practiced in that area, and of course they were all state doctors, they couldn't tell people what they had and they just told them whether you had a cold or a pneumonia or something. One doctor even said what you probably heard when the patient complained about having pneumonia and so on, and he coughed and drove him to the window that looked at the cemetery. But he said, look how many more of these people would like to cough, and they can't. Okay, that's a very tragic thing. Not only are people suffering, but the entire environment is extremely polluted, people are terrified and unable to help themselves. Therefore, I propose that item 77 million be transferred to the fact that these people can buy extra insurance. This is absolutely necessary and I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "Social Protection and Compensation for Production Restructuring" under order number 2. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 13 to 32. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. This is how we voted on all amendments to the budget user of the Ministry of Economy. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments to the budgetary user of the Regional Development Agency. One amendment was tabled under the sub-programme "The establishment and functioning of the regional structural policy system", the proposal of which is a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the amendment. 66 Members and Members are present. 5 votes against 36. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. With the budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been amended by three sub-programmes. That is, the sub-programme'restructuring agriculture and food'. Three amendments have been tabled to this sub-programme. Under 1 is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Under 2 is the amendment of the same proposer. Under 3 is the amendment of a group of Members with the first-signed French Rokavac. Neither does the Government of the amendment support, nor does the mother's working body. After that, one amendment was tabled to the sub-programme 'rural development', which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Two amendments were tabled for the sub-programme "Operation of Services and Public Institutions". The amendment is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Sasha Pecett. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Under two is the amendment of a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. The amendment government doesn't support it. The mother's working body isn't. I am opening a debate on the amendments read to the budgetary consumer by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. He wants someone to discuss it. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u245	Explanation of the amendment on page 13 of the review. With the amendment, we tried to provide money for the operation of animal asylums in the Slovenian national party and in the group of Members in the municipalities, i.e. in those 11 local self-governments, local communities. The existing or proposed trend is also driven by the proposal for animal protection, which clearly states in its provisions that 5% of the resources for the establishment of shelters and for the operation of shelters are financed from the budget in the Republic of Slovenia. I suggest that the members of the National Assembly support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. If the honourable assembly allows me to read all the candidates, I would not read the proposals below, but I would tell you which side of the review we are on. I'll read the subroutine. We are moving on to a decision on two amendments to the "Agricultural and Food Restructuring Sub-programme" on sheet number 11 of the review. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I've overlooked, Mr. Rupar. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, too. I will vote in favour of this amendment. Because of course you do not see why this money would be meant to be, let me point out that, while we want to use modest means, we want to encourage those responsible for the start of animal asylum. In Slovenia, there is only one asylum, if you can call it that, and it is in Maribor. While neither Ljubljana nor any other city have it. There is another version in Primor, in Koper. However, let's say a version of what asylum should actually be. In the previous term, the National Assembly adopted the Animal Asylum Act. However, this law is not implemented and would be fair to all those owners or, in this case, no longer owners, but to animals, in order to provide them with an adequate stay even when they are without guardianship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the amendment under order number 2 of the review at sheet number 11. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 3 on sheet number 12. We're voting. I am terminating the vote because Mr Rokavec has an explanation of vote. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. I myself will support this amendment and I propose that you support it also the other Members and Members. It is an amendment that ensures that this year too, the possibility of co-financing the operation of the Association for Neighbourhood Assistance and Machine Circles, as well as other social activities in the field of agriculture, will be ensured. At this point, I must say that in the situation in which agriculture is, it is important that we also maintain the so-called social activity, education and, above all, that we maintain the possibility of education in the field of safe work in the agricultural field, in which our activities are illustrated by the company for neighbourhood assistance and machinery rings. I must say that, this year, there is no direct support for the municipalities in the field of agriculture, where they could in some way help social activities in the field of agriculture. I will therefore support this amendment that, in some way, the European Union is still providing at least a minimum of confidence in the approximation of Slovenia and the cultivation of agriculture as a preserver of the development and settlement of the Slovenian countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We therefore decide on the amendment under number 3 on sheet number 12 of the amendments. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. There were 14 votes against 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "Rural development" on sheet number 12. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 36. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to sheet number 13 of the review to the sub-programme "Operation of Services and Public Institutions". First, we are voting on two amendments. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 33. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 33. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendments to the budget user of the Ministry of Transport, and three amendments have been tabled to the sub-programme of 'road building'. Amendment under order number 1 of which the proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Sasha Pecett. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Under 2 is the amendment of the same proposer and under 3 is the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u251	Just for information. Both amendments, amendments under order number 1 and order number 2 are contractual obligations in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself in the past, and unfortunately it has not included them in this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 31. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has not been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Nine amendments were submitted to the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads". The amendment under 1 is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andrej Bajuk, who is not supported by the Government and the mother's working body. Under 2 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed mag. Andrey the Vissians, the government and the original working body of the amendment do not support it. Under 3 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed victory of Jelinčič, the government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support. Under 4 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andrey Bajuk, the government and the national working body of the amendment do not support. Under 5 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed mag. Andrey the Vissians, the government and the original working body of the amendment do not support it. Under 6 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed France Rokavac, the government and the national working body of the amendment do not support. Under 7 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Saša Pječet, the government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support. Under 8 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Dr Andrey Bajuk, the government and the national working body of the amendment do not support. And under 9 is the amendment with the same motioner; the amendment is not supported by the government and the parent working body. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, just a minute. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Anderlich. Here you go. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. I have tabled this amendment to test our credibility in these words. This is a reconstruction of a road that came into the government programme or budget in 1993. Each budget shall ensure that it is upgraded and that this does not happen. This was also a question raised by former Member Benjamin Henigman and also answered by the minister at the time, that was in 1998 that the work would continue as soon as possible. The problem is being solved. That's how things work in this country. And this is a test of how credible we are. And I'm reapplying this to our test. This is an amendment under number nine. You can look at this, really in the rapporteur, who accidentally fell to me today when I was cleaning something up, from 23 March 1999 on this central page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u255	This chapter of the budget is one of the most discussed and desirable of all Members in all mandates, which I remember. It is true, however, that we have found ourselves in a situation where nothing can be fixed, because, as the data shows and this, Mr Drobnič knows and is unfortunately so that in the last three months of the past year, with so-called overtimees, it has been made ready to realize so many sections that even if some 16 billion more funds were put on local roads or state roads, i.e. in investment maintenance and construction of state roads, we could not start a single section on a new one. These are so-called overloads, these are priorities that have been set. And if I and myself are going to take any further action, together with the Ministry of Transport, the Minister himself, who also gave that word to the committee, to look at priorities, what with the needs in certain areas and finally to build and rebuild these roads, at least three basic criteria that must always be at the forefront. Loads, security, economic interests. Unfortunately, if you look at the programs currently in progress, or if there are contracts signed, there are some that do not meet these criteria. Of course, I know because I got the answer when I asked that question. Yeah, if we're going to change contracts now, it's going to cost 200 million dollars for the state budget. I'm not against any road. On the contrary, I think that it is necessary to build highways more quickly, that I am not talking, of course, about all the economic effects that highway construction brings, as well as, of course, the highway network, which has been greatly undervalued in the past period. And if we include mixed priorities, or favouring some that can't be, even if it's in turn, and that's the part that I'm going to talk about later in the law on budget implementation. The government, whose is already ours, or yours, or anyone else, of course all are ours, must not, of course, have, is that the government of this country, should not have the possibility that it can by virtually 100% redistribute the items that the National Assembly, on a proposal from this government, can define, and then one year after that, because someone remembers or does not have projects, or has himself ordered that other projects work faster than those in the programme and in the budget, and it is determined and said: because there are no projects for this direction, we cannot build this. And of course it happens next year, and it happens third year and so on. I guess I don't remember this road of yours, but it's something like that. But this whole band, and it's also a subroutine program for highway building, and it has a similar status. And I am sure that when we accept these three-year programmes 2002, 2003, 2004, we will shake each section to take into account the criteria that must be met, but you can believe that members of the LDS would very much like to build a variety of sections, as well as probably SLS, as well as probably united lists as well as all other Members. We are here on the same wagon, and, of course, I will unfortunately only have to support what is in the basic budget. For any distribution this year would mean filling a hole that is already too big, because the overloads are too great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Auschwitz and then I apologize, Mr Auschwitz, you want to discuss. [[....]] Two replicas, then Dr. Bayuk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. I listened with great interest to Mr Anderlich's discussion. To a large extent, this is only an indication of the lack of legislative power in this budget-making business. Our system, in fact, as it is, has produced a caricature of everything that the executive authorities should respect and actually work in our constitutional order. I only hope that these hours that we are spending today in this national assembly at this meeting will be remembered very much in the coming months, when we will also have to do these things and find different systemic solutions. It really looks like a child's game because we can't do anything else here, like we're actually doing. I hope, however, that Mr Anderlich and his Group of Members will also take this step when we ask our Government, our common government, for clear proposals on how we will face the problems of our public finances. That's all I want to remind you of. You spoke convincingly about how our highways didn't work, how highways were built slowly. And all of this is, to which we still insist, on this wrong approach, and we do not want to admit that the only way out is once and for all to have such systemic legislation that will allow for a responsible partnership between private initiative and the country in the field of infrastructure. I expect that the words I have heard today will also come true when we work together once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u258	Thank you very much. He also wants to replicate Mr Drobnič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. Mr Anderlič, as I would agree with you in principle with regard to overload, burden. I told you that I made this amendment on purpose to test credibility. That's the point. I have other suggestions on local roads, and so on, to appeal to my constituents, but I have not given them to do so. And if the problem is enforcement, sometimes this executive power - technical services do not work on purpose to get things done, because there is simply no money. Then it's an excuse, 'technical services haven't prepared yet'. But then let the citizens know clearly and loudly how this thing works! If this amendment is not voted on, I recommend to the ministers and other Members who will vote against you coming to this location, you will not appear to these citizens and you will not promise anything else because they have a basket full of you! [[...]] That's it. But it's only a small increase, 45 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich is also interested in replicating Mr Vizjak and Mr Rupar. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much. In fact, I do not want to replicate, because I would only add to Mr Anderlich's implementation that I fully agree with this and I am surprised to hear it from the mouth of the leader of the Group of Liberal Democracy, because it is essentially directing the course of events. Unfortunately, the opposition had to break and dig up from the government all these overloads and all this clear recognition that this programme is in one difficult financial, I would say, a collapse that it cannot and does not know how and what to do. I would like to point out that, even from this implementation, I would say, one serious complaint about the reduction of the importance of the National Assembly in such important projects and in over-authorisation of the government. However, we will have a law under this law on the implementation of the budget, which again allows and again gives more powers to the government in doing so and more wind into the sails in reducing the role of Parliament. That is why I think that, from this debate and from this concrete project, this is said to be a highway project, the power to understand that the role of Parliament must be more seriously respected and limited to government manoeuvres that go beyond this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, would you like to replicate Mr. Anderlich? Here you go, because we still have the discussers reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u263	That's all I want. Mr Anderlič, overtime in the last three months has benefited you from the construction of road infrastructure. So, don't tell me we're in charge of this segment right now because I don't know what kind of appetites. Of course, you created these appetites and made those you now make up the government. So, they were deliberately used for your election campaign. I will continue to say it in concrete terms. In one of the cities a road was built, where your party's Februarys in pre-election time walked around these buildings, and they were built exclusively by the municipality out of its money. You've promised the voters a tremendous amount of promise as to how this carousel will be, I'm going to name it, I'm going to come into the state programme to only advocate for your clients' support. And of course that's what happened. It's a shame, and it's a shame, once again, that there's no direct transmission today to tell them that before you walk around these facilities, the overtime has eaten up all the money for such infrastructure. Therefore, it would be more than fair for you to tell people in person and directly without getting votes on the basis of these overloads. But when the situation is right to turn yourself in, of course, you are here in front of the National Assembly, that money is gone and, of course, what you and your customers in the government and the nobility who make up this government must be paid first, you have already eaten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u265	Thank God that Mr Rupar has called, because otherwise I would believe that we agree with the opposition and that the opposition supports me. Now I see that Mr Rupar, even if a person speaks his language and in favour of what he advocates, does not really help, because he thinks I have something in the back, because I am on the other side anyway, and I will do something to bring it around. It's not about that, Mr. Rupar. I said clearly and loudly, the contracts signed in October, November. Go look, you can get all the data, you'll find out who was in power at the time. No problem. No problem, you'll find out and you'll see how many of these overtimees were signed at the time. Everything. The contracts were signed at the time, work will be carried out this year, and in 2002 they will be implemented and it will not be possible to walk through those construction sites, perhaps through holes, perhaps through some macadamium. I don't know, you called because you thought you had to answer. In particular, Mr Andrej Vizjak has also won the essence in some way. So you're advocating that these things be looked at, cleared up, and that the opposition helped clarify what was going on. No, it's not. You helped us clear up when you were in power for three months and when you did. You made it possible for us to do this, not today. I have papers so thick since February 12th, review of every contract, every item, every assumption - also you on the infrastructure committee, if you are a member, you have seen it - where you see it all. Of course, I don't want all these things to be cleared up and done today because we can't. I regret, however, that I spoke to many of our Members who have come to a new place, and they wanted to settle some things in the first year when they came to Parliament. When we faced these things, we realized that we couldn't do it. On the contrary, we can, of course, increase the budget to first remedy these overloads and close them and, of course, provide additional resources. I've calculated that about 16 billion is only on the local network, that we can dream it up, and that we're moving on to some new program. I'm sure we'll go. And I don't want to promise anyone anything. Reverse. I want to provide him with what everyone can expect in this country as a citizen, so that where roads are the most burdened, where they are most destroyed, where they are the most dangerous and where factories and I don't know anything else, they can't normally get involved in the work. Ciril Method Pungartnik has been repeating in this national council for four years that, say, Dan Mirna, Trimo Trebnje, as a very good company, they have only one road ahead, otherwise they should go 50, 60 kilometers around, table 5 tons of load. Which truck goes to Trebnje has 5 tons of restrictions. Now, of course, this bridge was repaired, but unfortunately they did the same thing back as it was, they just reconstructed it, too bad they didn't expand it for at least one meter. These are stories that hurt as much as you do. That is why there is a lot to be done in this area. And that's all this is about. I'm not hitting on anyone, I'm telling you, why this year, you can't increase these items. That's what I'm talking about. First of all - I also tell my Members, my colleagues, who have had a lot of discussions, as well as people and those who listen if anyone listens - why we will not be able to do anything this year. But I cannot accept, Mr Bajuk, that we take 700 million to the National Assembly. I'm also saying it sounds good in front of the citizens. If we ask them if the National Assembly spends too much, yes, we who sit in the warm - although today is a bit too hot - should bring here every month after any juris to buy this seat. That would be the answer. That's about the price. Thus, taking this item to the National Assembly, when we all know that there is no monitor connection in this best-equipped hall, we cannot do what is decent in the e-Company, but are a bunch of papers, and therefore we have to provide 250 million more on some item there. So someone can come to the Internet so they can call in here in the hall of this thing. And how are we going to get this 700 million out of these items? Or, Mr. Petty Officer, I know you said well, provocation. But surely, how can I support "the benefits and rights of the unemployed be reduced by 45 million"? How am I supposed to support this? I mean, I can't support it. And I can't support anything else in this way, because it's kind of the opposite of itself. Desiring that roads really build, it is necessary to ensure that the assembly functions normally, that compensation is provided to the unemployed and so on and so on. And this $1,100 billion looks huge, but in the end the problem is a million, two, three, five, six. Max Lavrinc, for example, worked for 14 days with a million or two, or, I don't know, who else would have helped, and it didn't work. So it's free because we're on the same shore. I just think that things need to be cleared up and put in place. But I stopped by, not because of these amendments to understand each other, but because of the government, because of the DRC, because of the DRSC, I think - what's in there? - Yeah, the DRSC is the one that's got me calling in to create a policy in this area. I'm sure if someone doesn't say it, it's either her or her, it doesn't happen like it does in the budget and in the programmes. For the coming year and for the next three years, I hope that before the adoption of the budget or at the adoption of the budget, we will have an investment programme and that at the beginning, when this is accepted, we will see what the second year or the next year will be like. I want to see it myself. But from this out and like the last few years, we just couldn't track it. That's all I've come up with to discuss, not to oppose any of your amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Two replicas to Mr Anderlich, Mr Rupar and Mr Vizjak. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I understood Mr Anderlich's performance in this sense, if you didn't mean it, that we were in those four, five months when the current opposition to the government, if you didn't mean it, I apologize for having again been one of those hot soups that we've heard a number of times, that otherwise the story of success has lasted, and we've somehow ruined it in these four, five months. [[...]] See, this debate and probably all these amendments concerning the Roads Directorate and this highway programme, as well as the conclusions of the Commission on Budgetary Control, have just opened up a clear picture of all these congestions and all that. I have stressed this, and the fact is that we have to think about it, and the fact is that these redundancies are not to be played in the future. But that's the topic of the next item. I would also like to point out that this is also happening when the government has too many open hands in this decision-making process, which is why I believe that such important decisions or other services, which are not related to legislation, are so important projects such as the highway project and other national projects, should not go into an under-representation of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Really, Mr. Anderlich, you misunderstand me. The burdens that arose last year at the end of the year in the Bajuk government are not unusual. If you don't believe it, look at the results of the government in front of Bajuk, and you will see that every year there were overloads, otherwise not as severe as it was last year, but, of course, completely normal. And I recommend something, not now, to watch who the signed contracts were intended for. Indeed, every Member and everyone who is here at the will of the people wants to repay these electorates. That's perfectly normal. Whoever doesn't do this doesn't belong here. I've said that a lot. But look at the statistics five years ago. Not just for one year. Five years ago, and you will see that some of the Members of the Union, and I will now say, the opposition to Bajuk and the Bajuk government, those places are not and they are not able to come into the budget, but if we were literally standing here on our heads. They couldn't. But look at some congregations, and you will see how much investment money has been invested in these areas, some of which come from Members and Members of the current government. For what? Free from election campaigns and good results. You have succeeded, unfortunately, in the time of the Bajuk government, there is no time left for this to be realized. Well, time is certainly not lost, and all these amendments with items from which we take money are still acceptable and, of course, can still be realized and realized what is proposed. So it's just a political decision, it's also the approach of all Members, and it's not just a crisis that you want to present as if the Ministry of Transport has. I don't believe that. I appeal to everyone to consider these amendments and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Ašič and then Mr Rokavec applied for the discussion on the sub-programme for investment maintenance and construction of state roads. Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. However, it was difficult to see that I had reached the point, but she was quite a precursor to what I intended to discuss in this chapter of the budget and the amendments to this chapter. Some things have already been cleared up. Why haven't we written any amendments in our parliamentary group or in other coalition partners? However, we very firmly agreed to this common agreed principle and pressed our teeth, because we were aware that whatever we wrote would mean a further exaggeration of the budget, because it was not from caessava. Mr Rupar can speak in one way or another, these treaties took place in October and November, as Mr Anderlich said. And these will be implemented this year and will be paid this year. I am pleased and convinced that none of these roads that will take place under these Treaties are unjustifiable. But the question is, is she really located there like she's supposed to be? That's another story. However, this has not only happened in the area of roads, as it is said that even at school such a thing happened and that for some schools that were not in any programme, Mr Rupar may have remembered some of the contracts for construction were also signed. But that's a different subject. We're with the amendments. Mr. Rupar said that it would probably be helpful to support them, because the funds used or the items taken are probably of a nature to endure it. At least that's how I understood them. Unfortunately, Mr Vizjak signed this. I don't think he really knew what it was. In these amendments, 650 million of the investment in the service of the common government services, out of a total of about 2 billion tolars, out of the few 10 billion tolars needed to regulate the Schengen border, to regulate the border crossings of Breže, Jelšana, Gruškov and so on. With this problem, I'm sure we'll be fighting and hitting each other hard on the next budget. The establishment of the Schengen border is one of the priorities also announced by the Prime Minister when presenting the budget for this year. It is only these, or trying to smoke only in these amendments 650 million, and in some of the next 400 million, over a billion in these amendments are interfering with this item. And so on. It's not just that line. He's the computer science Mr. Anderlich was talking about. It's even a business restructuring. Even this is happening to take once for the restructuring of businesses, and the second time is given. In short, it's really fun to look at these amendments and the philosophy of making these amendments. I'd like to take another look at Mr Petty Officer's amendment under number 10, which is why he said he was testing us to see how we'd react. I don't think you expected him to be supported because you probably hope there won't be a cut in the line - the benefits and the rights of the unemployed. I hope not. This item is expected to be reduced to good investment maintenance and construction of state roads by 45 million 964 thousand tolars. It really seems to me that everyone who wrote the amendments was primarily what they wanted to do. In fact, you wondered very little about the fate of the items that would be reduced if these amendments were implemented. For this reason, of course, it was not realistic to expect that those amendments, which in this way constitute a threat to some of the country's urgent tasks this year, could be supported. We will only support what has been definitively coordinated within the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. They want to replicate Mr Ašić's performance, first Mr Drobnic and then Mag. A visor. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u273	Thank you very much. A brief replica of Mr. Ašić. Look, it's 45 million. That's the first fact. Secondly, it is the rights of unemployment on the basis of monetary compensation for money aid. The unemployed will be granted rights under the law. In preparing the budget, I have pointed out that funds for these purposes have been pre-eminenced. In view of the number of unemployed, Mr Ajšić does not listen to me, Mr Ajšić, they are pre-eminenced. And I tell you, this is true because I have worked there and is expected to reduce the number of unemployed and the funds are increasing significantly. Except it's not some kind of trick. I didn't accidentally take it from this item. That's what I'd like to tell you. That's why it's not like that, but I'm there, it's justified. The unemployed will not be reduced. They'll get it under the law. Because this cannot be reduced because it is a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u274	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the replica, too. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I have to replicate Mr. Auschwitz. See, the Social Democratic Party and I myself have always been and I will advocate for all measures to bring Slovenia closer to the European Community, as well as to the speediest and fastest possible construction of these border checkpoints, especially those border checkpoints that are in the municipality from which we both come. The point of this amendment is essentially the same as before, see, if you do not know exactly how the entire service of the common services is redistributed, it is difficult to speak because the procedure for making an amendment is such that it does not prevent the directly viewed item from being taken. There are about 7 billion tolars in the common services service, that's what you need to know. We estimate that wages in this sector and other administrative costs are too high. This is not only confirmed by my opinion or our opinion, but also by the government in the revised draft budget, the item was reduced by 126 million only in the wage account. Thus, amendments that are Tangled in terms of building the road and in terms of taking it are partial and do not cover the entire suspicion so in one piece, because it would be impossible, but it is true that more amendments are for different matters. This is also true, because there are more Members and I think they have a sovereign right and an opportunity to submit these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Reploco's got Mr. Ashish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u277	So, just for a little while. Item: The common government service actually has 7 billion. But, of course, all the tenants paid by the State are all the costs of subsidising state programmes and so on and would not discuss them. The item introduced in all the amendments is the item for the acquisition of basic funds and the construction of buildings and their maintenance for the purposes of the public authorities. It's the only one. And the amendments are as follows: Mr Pece, for 250 million, Mr Levic for 200 million, Mr Bajuk for only 50 million, that is good, and you, 600 million. A total of 1 billion 100. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Robb checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u279	Dear Members! Nevertheless, I think it is important that I support Mr Ašič's thinking in the part about monetary compensation, because we both worked in the same ministry with Mr Drobník, I would like to remind him that the law on pension and disability insurance has changed, and that monetary compensation has broken down. From this title, this growth is so that no one would think it's just growth. Otherwise, the Minister of Labour is here and can confirm this, because this is the calculation of the Ministry of Labour resulting from systemic changes and therefore is an increase. Thus, these concerns were justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I cannot agree that there is only so much money as Mr Ašič said, because the five billion is poor on this particular sub-item, which is tangulated. We have estimated, once again, that with this broad bureaucracy, which governs this country, I would say, the implementation of such projects is too much for so many people to service them. That's the basic point and purpose. Far from it, it is abuse, and it is deception and incitement to attack this project in investment terms or as a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain these particulars? Minister Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that. The term "The Coast" appeared several times, and in this regard also the subsection of the Obrežje-Krška vas motorway. I must say that these main border crossings with the Republic of Croatia are at the top of both this year's budget and the work of the government and government services. I am convinced that even parliaments as a whole, because of the obligations we have in accepting certain requirements by the European Union and protecting the borders. As far as Obreža is concerned, the government adopted the Local Plan Regulation on Thursday. Thus, all possibilities have been put in place for the project to become more operational. However, the funds are provided primarily at the service of the common service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for all facilities and for salaries and so on. Some assets, I think, are also in the other departments and in the Ministry of Transport, for part, for the road or for that width that belongs to the highway. Similarly, large activities are taking place at other important border crossings such as Gruškovlje and Jelšane, where interstate border commissions or border crossings coordinate the border points themselves and, of course, these projects are also priorities for the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please come to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u285	Thank you for saying so, Madam President. Dear Members and Members. The amendment of the group of Members under number 6, which refers to the reconstruction of the road at the Ribče-Hotič section, represents one of the four parallel state roads for areas not directly involved in the motorway programme. This is the so-called area of the link between Ljubljana, Lithuania and then, of course, towards Zasavje. For this section and for this investment last year, the basic draft budget of 360 million was confirmed and a regular overload adopted and signed in July. The work started at the end of August, it is said, does not fall within the framework of the so-called extraordinary investments that subsequently came into the package. But here's the problem. Work of 314 million was done last year, planned at the level of the budget, as I mentioned 360 million, and the realisation was zero. The department is so difficult, it's impossible to stop the work. Only information that at the time of construction of this road section occurred about 60 million injuries along local roads and both bridges due to traffic, that I am not talking about everyday amazing columns at the end of the morning between 6 and 8 p.m. on the route against Ljubljana and at the afternoon time between 3 and 5 and 6 p.m. and 15 and 18 p.m. The problem is that this year's draft budget mainly represents only the payment of last year's works and little else. The contractor will have to make a commitment because the work will have to be done. Otherwise, as I have already mentioned, there is an incredible damage to the traffic of local roads and both large connections across the Sava River Bridges. In this case, I think we are also doing damage to the state budget. We know that interest will have to be paid. And with these funds, 106 million, we would in some way provide at least that minimum bridge that investment can normally also be completed by building dynamics. On the other hand, because there have been several speeches about this today, Lithuania is an area where a so-called trailer or a "truck" can come, not directly from Ljubljana, through legal channels, but via Troy or through the lower highway or through the so-called Bodenšperk Castle. All carriers received by law enforcement authorities are said to be punished. And the economy suffers as well. In fact, I must point out that due to the unresolved issue of road connections there is also no interest in investing in the development of the economy in this area and it is not interesting. I therefore propose that this is in fact one of the amendments that would be worth considering and which would make sense for the national assembly to confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision on the amendments in sheet 15 of the review to the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads". Nine amendments have been tabled for this sub-programme, as I mentioned earlier by individual proposers. We will vote by order numbers. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 7 to 38. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 7 to 36. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 5 to 41. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 8 to 37. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. Explanation of voice. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment. This amendment has been tabled five times in five consecutive years. Unfortunately, until today, he has not received enough support. It is, however, a matter of classifying the construction of the fence in the Market into the state budget. That is why I also ask other colleagues to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 10 votes against 38. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 6. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 20 votes to 29. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 7. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's a 9-to-35 vote. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 8. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 to 39. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 9. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 11 to 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to debate and decision-making on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Railways, namely the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of public railway infrastructure". The amendment shall be proposed by a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Vissians; the government and the parent working body of the amendment are not supporting. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. Let me explain to you what we want with this only "railhouse" amendment. So it is the railway station Zbelovo on the route Celje-Maribor, between the stations of Poljčana and the Long Mountain. This is not a railway station, but a station, it is a covered platform with lighting and the most urgent security infrastructure. The station would meet all the criteria of the Slovenian Railways, because the railway representatives have looked at this location and meets both safety and location criteria, it is said to be far enough from both adjacent stations. But it's about making project documentation, and that's why it's also heavier, I mean, the financial weight is only 5 million. This is probably an amendment that has the lowest price that we are deciding on today. There used to be a station here, because there was also a railway line of Polish-Slovenian Konjice-Zreče, which we know was abolished in the 1960s. Of course, the most interesting thing is who will use this route. It is being gravityd by all those who represent daily fluctuations, the real labour, so are workers, students and students, against Celje and Maribor. Most importantly, near this location, a few hundred meters away, thermal water was discovered and there is already a growing economic facility with swimming pools and adequate guest infrastructure. The inhabitants of the Dravinjska Valley, Loč, Slovenian Horses and part of Zreč would be gravitated to this station. In particular, it seems important to us that there is also economic interest and tourist interest in the back. As I said, this is where economic, tourist infrastructure grows because thermal water is discovered. This is why construction seems appropriate and should be started as soon as possible. Therefore, I ask you to support this amendment, which is one of the "lightest" on a financial scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on this amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 32. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on the two amendments to the sub-programme "enhancement of the environment" within the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The first amendment is proposed by a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Vissians, the government and the original working body of the amendment do not support it. The proposed amendment under 2 is a group of Members with the first signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk, the Government and the country's working body do not support the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 38. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry. Dr. Bayuk wants to explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment, and I expect this amendment not to be adopted, but I would only offer one alternative to my colleagues and colleagues. What if we just voted to lower the regulatory framework of the general administration and policy-making, because this ministry is one of the largest sources that creates and creates regulatory frameworks, more than Slovenian citizens and nationals can understand at all if you are not already in favour of increasing environmental protection, but perhaps we will only help protect the environment by reducing the chances of creating new policies and regulatory frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 12, against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on amendments to the sub-programmes of the budgetary user: the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection. Amendments to the two sub-programmes have been tabled. On sheet number 21 of your review is one amendment to the subprogram: improving the state of the environment. On sheet 22 and 23 there are four amendments to the sub-programme: water planning, protection and management. The proposed single amendment to the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment is a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The first amendment to the sub-programme for water planning, protection and regulation is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk, the Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support. The amendment under 2 shall be proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrey the Vissians, the government and the original working body of the amendment do not support it. Similarly, the amendment is proposed under 3 groups of Members with the first signed Magi. Andrej Visiak, Government and Labour Body of the Amendment Under four is the amendment proposed by the Group of Members, signed by Sonja Areh Lavrič. These amendments and both sub-programmes shall be put to the debate by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia with the budgetary user. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u293	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome all present. I would explain this amendment. This is an investment in the construction of the waterworks of Zgornja Vižinga, Radlje ob Drava. Given the capacity of the municipality of Radlje ob Drava, it is not able to carry out the project with such a high share of its own participation. The project is important, which ensures the normal supply of drinking water to citizens in the area where the project is being implemented, which has also demonstrated the need for an investment that the Ministry of Environment and Space has identified as a priority but has not provided sufficient resources. Here's one difference in assets, that's about 3,018 tolars. I'd like to add that. It is also a congregation that is at the very top of unemployment, each of the others is virtually unemployed, and it is also a very poor congregation. I'm saying if we can't give them a job, let's at least give them water. And please, Your Honor, if this amendment is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First of all, we will vote on the amendment in sheet 21 of our review in the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. This is the only amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the four amendments to the sub-programme for water planning, protection and management. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 39. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment by order number 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. Vote 6 to 40. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. Vote 6 to 37. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the last amendment under order number 4. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the vote. Mr. Saša Pece wants to explain his voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u295	It is true that the proposed amendments by the opposition political parties are going down in order. There may be more reasons for this, but this amendment would really make sense to consider before you press the pros or cons button. As my client colleague said, it is about providing the basic conditions for life. It's basically water. I think she said very well, I'm afraid she ran into a deaf ear when she stressed that if we can't give them work already, that if we can't guarantee or don't want the development of this place, we can offer them at least a basis for a minimum life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 23. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled to the budgetary user by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Three sub-programmes have been amended within the framework of the budgetary user. That is, the sub-programme for the regulation and supervision of the system of employment and unemployment, to which the amendment of the group of Members was tabled with the first signed Saš Pečet. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. A sub-programme of incentives for the conservation and opening of jobs, two amendments were tabled to this sub-programme, under 1 amendment, of which a group of first-signed MEPs is the proposer. Andrej Visiak, and under the 2 amendments of the Group of Members with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk. The two amendments are not supported by the government and the mother's labour force. A sub-programme for the social protection of persons with disabilities, with one amendment, which is also proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. There's another subroutine. Two amendments have been tabled with him, the amendment of which is proposed by the groups of Members, with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk, is under two amendments by the group of Members with the first signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. Both amendments are not supported by the government or the mother's labour force. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u297	Explanation of the amendment under order number 1, page 24, of which the Slovenian National Party is the proposer. I'd just like to give you an explanation that you don't have in the material that we've acquired for a faster flight. The money mentioned in the amendment is exclusively intended to co-finance societies to help persons with psychophysical disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. I want to explain my amendment. Of course, it is about promoting, maintaining and opening jobs, especially for people with disabilities. If we are to implement the programme of the one you have adopted by the government and the Parliament, then we should also provide so much. In any event, they will also need to be provided at such a level. This will probably have to be done by the government with redeployments, unless, of course, we support this amendment. Given the principles of coordination during the year, it is likely that the government will have no problems, as it will move money from one item to another. To be credible, however, it would be good if we could confirm this in advance. It is not about the dissemination of rights, but it is about the provision of funds to the extent that the law actually imposes them. These are just better calculations, more accurate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, on one amendment to the sub-programme for the regulation and control of the employment and unemployment system. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to a sub-programme of incentives for jobs to be maintained and opened. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We're voting on an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. Vote 6 to 42. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under two has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme of social protection for disabled persons. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 42. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme on social protection for the elderly. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 37. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to debate and decision-making on the amendments to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health, namely, the four amendments have been submitted to the sub-programme of investment investments in hospitals. Under 1 is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Under 2 is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Peter Levic. The Government and the national working body of the amendment do not support the amendment, with the intention of amending the amendment under 2 signed by the group of Members with the first signed by Danica Simšič. Unfortunately, this amendment under 2 has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the signatories to the amendment are not identical to the signatories to the amendment in the review of the amendments under order number 2. Therefore, the revised amendment cannot be decided by the National Assembly and will have to be defined as an amendment under order number 2, of which the proposed group of Members is the first to be signed by Petr Levič. Under number 3, there is an amendment whose proposer is a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk; the Government and the national working body of the amendment do not support it. Under number 4, there is an amendment by a group of Members with the first-signed Bogdan Barovic; the government and the original working body of the amendment do not support it. I am opening a debate on the amendments to the sub-programme "Investment Investment in Hospitals". Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u301	Dear Members and honourable Members! In view of what I have said in the introduction, it is probably very reasonable to explain now how the government actually views the changed circumstances in this case, which are that the amendment has been tabled in the way it was, because of the different circumstances and therefore is not applicable or cannot be accepted. As I have said, the Minister of Health and I have been working with the Minister of Health in the meantime, also because of the many amendments that have been tabled, as well as the broad public debate, we have been trying to ensure a certain amount of additional resources. Within the existing budget, the Minister of Health estimated that it would be possible to redistribute about 100 million dollars at the moment from the second item he has. Of course, this cannot be done with the amendment now, and that is why we cannot support it. At this point in time, I can ensure, above all, that this reallocation within the rules to be laid down by the law on the implementation of the budget is also done and that we commit ourselves, both to the Ministry of Finance, and I think that the representative of the Ministry of Health will commit himself, and we will do so without delay. There is no doubt, however, some discussion that it is possible that the amount of funding needed for a paediatric clinic will be slightly greater this year than it was originally estimated. I have already committed to the parental committee, given that I am very much in favour of this investment myself, but with the resources that are needed when they are really necessary, I have also provided all the support that should it be established during the year that additional resources are needed to ensure that these additional resources are also provided within the budget. Undoubtedly, this is such a priority that we will do so, and I have also said publicly that I am committed to providing these funds over the course of the year. This is also a challenge for all those who are implementing this project, so that if there is more spending, we will also ensure it. I suggest that at this point we do not support these tabled amendments and that, to the extent possible, we try - if you will, of course, support such a view - to try to secure these additional funds, even more than that additional 100 million, during the flight from other transfers. I take full responsibility for doing so, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Secretary of State mag. Simon the High, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u303	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. I, too, would like to make a call with a particular aim to confirm the implementation of the Minister of Finance. We have actually made some efforts and we have found that we can provide additional resources within our items. And we're counting on these items that the finance minister was talking about. It is true that, in preparing this budget, everything has shown that due to certain constraints it will not be possible to start construction this year. It was mainly a matter of a variety of consensus. We are now at this stage of the agreement with interested partners, if I may say so, we have reached agreement that these obstacles, which they have shown, are no longer. Therefore, it is obvious that it will be possible to start construction this year and once again confirm the objectives of the Ministry of Health, to start the construction of a paediatric clinic this year and to provide within our budget certain additional resources to the existing item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u305	On behalf of the Slovenian national party, we are forecasting support for the amendment of Mr Petr Lević. And it would seem reasonable to us that when speakers in their speeches say that they agree with the content, with the substance of the amendment, this also shows that they support it. It's completely pointless and very political, too political a speech in a way that we agree on, but that's why we're not going to do it. I appeal, however, to all those who actually want the content of the proposed amendment to actually confirm it, that is, their opinion by pressing the "for" button.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much. First Dr. Andrej Bajuk, then Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can tell us how much money the government will actually devote to this project. And if we may propose a change in this amendment so that we can accept it today and here in the National Assembly for once, we will make a decision for once, but not to listen to nice speeches about those people who should have done so sooner if they really agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Minister Rop, then Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u309	Mr Bayuk, the Secretary of State has already said that the Ministry of Health had planned this sum at the time of budget preparation, as planned. And, of course, we have included this sum in the draft budget. Obviously, it has now been shown, but there is a potential for higher expenditure and greater investment in the paediatric clinic. Given that we have been aware of this and have tried in every way to find a redeployment and that is why we have also tried to provide this additional 100 million today. Of course, we should ask the Minister of Health or the representative of the Ministry of Health. As I know, but he will confirm me, it is in the game if I can call it this basic investment, the beginning of the construction, the so-called building hole that would have to be made and the purchase of the Health Care Institute. And both things must be run off, on the one hand, the beginning is called a building pit and, of course, also negotiations regarding the buying-up of this institution. How far these movements will be and when these negotiations will be and what the final price will be, of course it will be difficult to say because I am not negotiating and therefore I cannot talk about the final number. However, it means this 220 plus 100 million is 320 million and it has provided some with partial purchases, which means that the first 200 million would invest plus a building pit would be around 500 million. However, these are very harsh assessments, and it would be too soon to say that these are final estimates because it is necessary to see how far the negotiations will come and what the final agreed price will be. Otherwise, I think that the representative of the Ministry of Health should tell us how far these negotiations are.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander. The Secretary of State can explain, and then Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u311	Thank you. Well, it's just the continuation of that answer. As Minister Rob said, it's about 500, and I can say 800, 900 million at this point. However, the real value will be demonstrated by the negotiations themselves, or the very course of events, depending, of course, on time dynamics and on how they will negotiate with our negotiating partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Various information began to appear in the National Assembly on what could be done this year and how much money would really be needed to continue to build a paediatric clinic. This year, thanks to the Ministry of Health, Minister Kebra, all the problems that have so far hampered the start of the construction of the paediatric clinic have been resolved. All 220 million dedicated to the construction of a paediatric clinic this year will therefore be used to buy buildings and prepare land. According to Ms. Marolt Meden, in the end, there is also an agreement to obtain a building permit. Three more permits are missing. Energy, Vok and Elektro. These are in the final stage of coordination and will be obtained within one month. Therefore, it is realistic that in June at the latest the Ministry of Health will issue a public invitation to tender for the construction operator. The call will only be possible if funds are therefore allocated in the budget to build a new paediatric clinic in Ljubljana. We therefore know that all the funds allocated to the paediatric clinic in the 2001 budget will be spent on the final purchase of land. And the call for the contractor will not be published because there will be no provision in the budget line. On the Committee and also in his reply to the presentation of the budget, we were able to hear Minister Rop personally taking part in the project, vowing that the money would be allocated for the construction of a paediatric clinic if there was actually a start to the construction of a paediatric clinic. We believe in the young party that the minister will actually do so, but as I have already said, it will not be possible to publish the invitation to tender unless the budget item does not provide for funds. Otherwise, we appreciate the promises made by Mr Rope and Mr Secretary, but I would like to draw attention to the adoption of the budget last year 20.1.2000, where Dr Janez Zajec, Secretary of the Ministry of Health has promised: "The investment programme is adopted at the Ministry of Health as proposed. I thank you for your support in the general part of the budget when you supported 400 million more of the construction of a pediatric clinic. With this money we will buy a complex complex this year where the pediatric clinic will stop, make complete plans and also close the entire investment cycle with this money you approved this year. And next year, real construction starts with bulldozers and construction." These bulldozers aren't there yet, and the building hasn't started yet. Here I have a financial structure that was prepared in accordance with the construction of a pediatric clinic. I just want to say for a minute. Harmonisation of project documentation due to multiple [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] On the basis of the demands of the Ministry of Health or preparation, the prices will only be roughly speaking, 194 million, the purchase of land or property 250 million, according to the current budget line with 230 million more land, the energy contribution of 300 million, the cost of issuing consent and legal procedures minimally, the transfer of municipal waters 170 million, the destruction of the building and the excavation of the building pit 140 million. [[...]] So it's 230 plus 100, we get 330. After this mathematics is not enough money to buy land and start building a cave, we can eat in half and wait. Now, I don't know. I apologize, I may be a little fluid, but I appeal to all Members. The three amendments were put in, it was an attempt to invest the fourth by Mrs Simšičova, many of us who want to build ourselves in a pediatric clinic. If we collect all these signatures, I think we can gather them enough to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u315	Mr Levič, the distinguished others, including the Members and Members of Parliament! I assure you that when all administrative obstacles to the start of construction are removed and we assume that they will be announced in a relatively short time, then we will issue a call. For the purposes of this call, we will also provide funds in the budget. That's what we're providing you with today with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u317	Thank you very much. A group of Members with me as first-signed also tabled an amendment. The Minister of Finance was convincing on the Finance Committee, saying that there were no formal conditions for a start or until that moment. Clearly, things have changed a little from that point on to that point. We've all probably, at least I've got a letter from the fund to build a new pediatric clinic and my predecessor has also read a lot of this and it's finally clear that it's possible to spend or go with the dynamics of construction this year to spend almost 1 billion tolars. Look, this very statement by the Secretary of State encouraged me to do this. For we see that whatever we accept here is a national assembly and this is the destruction of the role of the national assembly. Never mind, the government can provide more and more. And that's not a problem. This means that even if we give 200 million, 220 million, spending, as he said, can be up to 800 million. Although I fully agree with this project. However, I say, with amendments and a decision by consensus of the National Assembly. Not on the basis of reallocation and any rights that the government has under the law on the implementation of the budget. I think that this investment must have a basis in the budget and that it is therefore to support the amendments that follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the first amendment in the sub-programme "Investment investments in hospitals". We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes against 29. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 16, against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 4. Mr. Bogdan Barovic wishes to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u319	Thank you, Madam President. It's my amendment. It makes sense that I will vote for him. This could be said, like the book or film in the English title of the unending story, as well as other unfinished stories, which began in 1992, continued in the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia for health care, continuing to meet the conditions for the verification of general hospitals in the Republic of Slovenia. The General Hospital of Trbovlje, with its funds gathered, financed in various ways the most urgent things as much as she could. Over 50,000 mammals have made a number of millions of contributions, which they have invested in the general hospital of Trbovlje in recent years. Damaged, those with broken legs, bent legs, possibly damaged even worse, and unfortunately in the surgical outpatient hospital carry on their backs for nine years in the X-ray steps, if necessary in the surgical room, and on the back of the stairs, which are twice as many, into the surgical room. What else can I say? That I don't want anyone among you if you're going to be in that neighborhood that covers roughly 50, a little over 50,000 people, so something happens to you, and you don't have anyone to carry you up and down the stairs, or you can call it a demagic or not. I just hope no one says it's political demagogy, because political demagogy will be when there's really gonna be some kind of policy on his back, but I don't know whose. This is neither a godly New Year's wish nor a Christmas wish nor the Director's wish to be reelected to be the Director again. Everyone gathered here, in this roller coaster that we've been suffering all day, you might still have a little bit of yourself, your conscience, and ask yourself, "how would I vote?" Don't just think about how they ordered you and ordered you to vote; or just do as you were told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u320	Thank you very much. We therefore decide on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 23 to 30. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled to the budgetary user by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Seven sub-programmes have been amended within the framework of this budgetary user: One amendment has been tabled as a sub-programme for higher education, namely the amendment of a group of Members with the first signed Silva Črnugelj; the government and the national working body of the amendment do not support it. Two amendments have been tabled for the sub-programme "Sport Programmes", namely the proposal for both groups of Members with the first signed mag. Andrey the Vissians; the government and the parent working body of the amendments do not support them. Three amendments have been tabled for the "primary education" sub-programme, the proposal for all three amendments is a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The government and the parent working body of the amendments do not support it. Two amendments were tabled for the sub-programme "General Secondary and Vocational Education". Under 1 is the amendment, the amendment of which is proposed by the group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet, the Government of the Amendment does not support the Mother's Labour Body has not been defined because this amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee, which is listed under order number 2 and is supported by the Government. And then the subroutine for adult education. One amendment has been tabled, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. And the sub-programme "helps in primary education", which is accompanied by one amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. And also the sub-programme "helps in secondary education", which is accompanied by an amendment of the same proposer. I am opening a debate on amendments to the 7th sub-programmes of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I wouldn't discuss it too much. I'd just like to say a little bit about my point of view. The National University Library, which is now, stands in all the famous monumental architectural. It was set up, the beginning of the design of this library was already in 1927. The construction began in 1936. It was completed in 1941. That's what they say. They've worked so hard on the project file. And if I now draw an analogy with the National and University Library and the University Library of Ljubljana. The design and first design and the start of the call for a location was launched in 1986, 1988, and the tender established the location and also selected the project. In 1994, the National Assembly also passed a law on the construction and construction of the University Library of Ljubljana. So far, 3 billion 200 thousand dollars have been paid from the state budget for this library. From a contract signed by the Municipality of Ljubljana with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Municipality of Ljubljana prepared part of the land documentation. It is said that the Municipality of Ljubljana has almost fully fulfilled its contractual obligations, as well as part of its legal obligations, because the Slovenian library, which is part of this law, is already made, you know, in Bežigrad, along with the Bežigrad Library. It is up to you to judge whether you will support the amendment or not that I have submitted it as a first-signed Member to the National Assembly. The government has its opinion, they will certainly find certain means for the emergency obligations they are. But of course, I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u323	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to talk about the sub-programme for general, secondary and vocational education. But I'm talking because I'm afraid that due to a procedure that is the mother of justice, the education of this money would not be lost. The Committee on Finance was so noble and fine that the amendment of the Group of Members took not the same, but even the same. So we have the problem of first deciding on an amendment to increase funding for the Ptuj High School, Maribor High School of Forestry, Kranj High School of Agriculture and Agriculture, Celje High School of Health, Murska Sobota High School, Slovenska Bistrica High School and Maribor High School of Economics and Mosta High School in Ljubljana. Chairman, you who interpret the Rules of Procedure, am I right? Because these two amendments are the same. Not the same, they are even identical, that if we do not accept the first amendment, then the second amendment is irrelevant. And if we accept the first amendment, the second amendment is irrelevant. And I would like to ask the Ministry here how the amendment tabled by the Finance Committee has not been supported by the identical amendment of the 25 members of the National Assembly. I think this was a mistake. And it's basically about prestige. I'm afraid we're going to lose our leverage, so we don't lose our resources in the National Assembly. I tried the first amendment, which is identical to the second one, and I called our colleagues, all those who signed this amendment, but unfortunately I didn't get them all. That is why this first amendment remains. And I'd like to ask you to vote on the first amendment. For if we do not vote and then vote on another amendment with the same content, which is only the author of another, it seems to me that we are in breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u325	Otherwise, I think one of these two amendments needs to be supported. I don't think we have an explanation yet. However, because I understand that the government supports one of the amendments and not two, and because the government might seem to support the Committees of the Amendment and the Group of Members, then this would be twice. That's why Rudy probably understands. On my own, I propose that we vote first on the second amendment, and then we resolve the matter; if not, we resolve the matter in a row. However, I think it is undeniable that whether he is voted first or not, we can vote on another.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u326	Thank you very much. The revised part of the Rules of Procedure provides that the amendments tabled by the groups of Members shall be voted on first and then on the amendments of the Committee. So we have to vote as set out in the Rules of Procedure. We will first vote as regards this sub-programme, 'general, secondary and vocational education', in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Rudolf Mohet. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I would like to return to the amendment that our colleague, Mrs Crnuglev, was talking about. My debate, and I hope that another one that will follow, would be saved if the Ministry and the Minister would answer those questions that she promised to answer on the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and Sport. I appeal to the assembly myself to allow, regardless of what we now have inscribed as the government's position, this amendment, despite all the support and thus not to allow any special continuation of the building, but to allow the construction not to stand still - I am speaking of course about the NUK - and not to cause any damage to this facility. Too bad it's already working right now. I would like to remind you, those who did not participate in this committee, that it has been said that when a supplementary proposal for the state budget is submitted, it will be explained how the construction of the University Library in Ljubljana will be financed in 2001. That wasn't done. At the same time, it was said that the Ministry should clarify whether sufficient resources were provided under the budget lines to prevent the construction project from stopping or slowing down in 2001 and provide information on the financing of its construction in the past. And the government should also explain if it plans to take specific measures to ensure the further construction of the UKL or what it proposes to solve the problem. If you're going to spin the movie 20 minutes ago, then you're going to see what I have to say is that I'm running away too, that where I want to go is the way. In the past, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of Health had ensured that there was no problem. It turns out that if we go back in that case, of course, the problem is that there is no documentation available and that the problem is that the Ministry of Health, in my opinion, does not hope to set a priority and thus, of course, relieve the national assembly and the entire public concerned of arguing once about the paediatric clinic, then we argue about the means for the cancer institute and so on. When we talk about building a university library in Ljubljana, I don't see these problems. What is paradoxical in this matter is that, in fact, the current team, which has nothing to do with, in some way or at least I thought of this pre-history as former teams with the exception of the team led by Minister Bohinc, regardless of the fact that the law required her to carry it out and that the National Assembly has shown its readiness every year to demonstrate that, in fact, the ministry, including the current one, is blocking the legal obligations. I repeat, this is not about not being able to do these things, but it is about knowingly blocking legal obligations. When you face this conscious blockage that if we deal with what's left of it during the flight, we'll redistribute it, then you'll see that it's not the same measure. My view, of course, of how we are both Members and State officials and, of course, of the government is that the law is stronger than what anyone would like to do. If that's not the case, then the whole story is over. If these things are not in the state budget then, my dear friends, it is not possible to discuss the prudent use of funds. Therefore, I regret that we have actually signed an amendment to draw on some of the items that later turned out to be embarrassing, and I am supposed to shorten this data from the Ministry itself. In this sense, of course, error occurred elsewhere. What I would like to say is that all these promises that we hear are recorded in the budget. They should simply be recorded in the budget. I'm not, I'm going to say, not as the former Minister of Foreign Affairs or anything else, but this, I'm going to say, is a story I've been following with an investment in NUK from the very beginning. If you look at the magnetograms from the very beginning, you will see that I have had more concerns than it would have looked today, but since the adoption of the law, the government should have respected it. 588 million, if it is true to believe those who know the situation precisely, is merely a guarantee of those means that are the payment of current obligations arising from the construction. The Ministry, or these budgetary documents for the coming years, shows that in the coming years, I think that in the coming and future, the Ministry is planning for billions and billions. The minister told us on the committee that she doesn't really know if this construction is going to go. The documents accompanying the documents, which are supposed to indicate how the development will progress over the coming years, show that it is already approximately in the next two years, here in advance I apologize if I have mistakenly foreseen 7 billion funds. This year, there is neither the means to pay current obligations from this construction office nor the open cave. That, Your Honor, is not serious to me. That is why I simply urge you to force the government to continue with the adoption of this amendment. If it does not intend to do so, it should come with an amendment to the construction law. It's the only option right now. No agreement between interested ministries and cities should come with the amendment of the law to delete this as a priority in Slovenian culture and science, if you want and can add to the arts. Let him come with a clear view. I'm gonna appreciate him more than what's going on right now. If all we have heard before is possible, of course, there will be no problem within the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sport and Science to redistribute these 180 million to other items with the explicit will of the National Assembly to finance this. We have previously found that 500 to 700 million within the Ministry, which has significantly smaller manoeuvres, is a "little joke". I'm surprised about that. I have also been forced to do something small in my life to plan these budgetary expenses. If it's a "little joke," then 188 million is something that the Minister of Finance dropped out of his pocket when he passed the toilet, and he didn't notice. And the Minister of Education, according to her budget. Of course, I apologize for taking all this time away from you, and I promise to take it again, because I simply cannot accept that the law does not apply to a certain minister. I just can't deal with it. There's a time and a place for these things to work out. And I ask that you support me in this effort; that is why neither the budget nor the government nor the coalition will fall; even I do not expect any cracks in the party; I hope that not even the slightest personal offense, because I have nothing to do with this in person. It pisses me off that I've been listening to the same story for ten years about some central national cultural institution and, if you want to, even the university institution, while it's possible to do a gym in every village, I don't mind, but it's also possible to do secondary schools, which is also true that these attitudes to schools are so great that no one can pay any more heat, but we are not able to do so. The ministry, which is unable within all these square almost kilometres of buildings it has, to approve the continuation of construction for the heart, I will say, the library system in Slovenia has something wrong with priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Školč said well that when the law was passed, the investment was about 7 billion, slightly smaller. But I have made it quite clear that a number of the obligations that were foreseen at the time have already been made to deal with the smaller funds that are envisaged. And it is some of the obligations already created in 2000 that will be transferred to 2001 and so on. I know Genesis, but I don't want to kill you too much at this late hour. However, the point is that we know that the law has actually foreseen that the investment will be completed in 1998 and that it will then be completed, that it is now 2001 and that, as a result, we must go to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia without delay into amending the law, amending and supplementing this law. And this is the commitment that the National Assembly is expected to accept today, along with these urgent funds necessary to complete the investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Christmas has the replica, and then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am not replicating Mr Školč, but I am replicating the second point, namely the law on budget implementation, and the 10th point, which states that neither national programmes nor national programmes, the laws on national programmes apply, but only the law on the implementation of the budget. Then let us ask ourselves why we accept such laws that no one can or does not want to enforce. The second thing I'd like to say is that it's not a replica, it's that part that Mr. Moge started. When the Rules of Procedure are completed, I think there will be something to say. On Friday, we adopted amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. And yesterday only the amendments of the parliamentary groups came to the board. With the same content. And if it says that the committee of this amendment refused to consider it because it had already accepted it, I think it was adopted in the five-week stand. I can't imagine and can't now, but it says in the Rules of Procedure that the amendment of the Group should be voted on first. Then we can play the fool. For the second time, the opposition will table its amendment and what we will have, on every amendment adopted by any committee, on every amendment adopted. There's a fight in the hall. Let us write down the rules that will apply, not that we will convince one another. But if necessary, I advise you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u333	I'll be very brief. I, my friend Christmas, expressed my desire to call my colleagues. But they're not here. And I couldn't get them and I can't withdraw them on behalf of all of this and we'll vote on it. This amendment was tabled a long time ago. And that's all I'm afraid is that there won't be any procedural complications, no money coming out of it. However, as far as I know from the practice of the National Assembly, if someone suggests that one of the candidates should say that we end at 7 a.m., the chairman put this to the vote. If someone else proposes to let us finish at seven, you said "thank you, we will not decide because we have already made a decision in the previous case" and did not put another to the vote. That's why I'm afraid. The amendments are identical, from letter to letter, from word to word. Because this is about prestige. I am that prestigious fig of "care" with the 25 Members who signed this, but I want the money to be, but procedural problems have arisen here. Since I am only afraid of this, let's throw away the first one and leave the Members, let's not give them right, but let's give the same text to the committee, and let's accept the second one that the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole. And if that's possible, then that's fine. However, if an amendment had been adopted by the Members, something would not have broken if it was identical to that amendment of the Committee. The Latins called it "lana catrina rixari" or dog hair to argue, I'm afraid just because of the procedure, because you're each in your own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. Mogue. If you allow me, before I give the floor to the Minister, to explain to you whether we will vote in order, whether or not the amendment under 1, of which you and the group of Members are the one that will be voted on, we will also vote on the amendment under 2. Dr. Lucia Chok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u335	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, good evening! I would like to tell the two discussants, who are a problem, that I fully understand it and that, in fact, I agree with their statements. I don't mind Mr Školč, either way we talk here or we get tired or we get tired because I've already tried to tell the committee what the situation is. As you know, we - not alone - because I think this problem is inter-resortary - with Madam Mayor, with the Minister of Culture and with science and education we have begun to implement these measures by starting to prepare the basis for amending the law. For I must tell you that this law no longer holds in any way, which was adopted here in the National Assembly. I'll explain to you right now why. Firstly, this value of the library was revolutionary last year and it no longer holds to be worth 3.7 billion, but it is a cost for this library now 13 billion. That this came from the budget for the construction of the library in these years, it was from the budget, and I would also like to say exactly, the allocation of 2 billion 523 million 541 thousand and the actual use of 1 billion 833 million. I would remind Mr Školč that he was a minister at this time and did not tire anyone to ask why they were returning funds to the budget. In these years, 689 million have returned to the budget. And yet he is here, even he is native to this area, because the library is also his domain. So I don't blame him for being persistent now, and it's right that he's insistent that we do something, I resent him in part, why he hasn't persisted so far. However, I would like to say why I cannot support this amendment as a representative of the government, although I agree that it is necessary to ensure that this process does not stop, that we prepare all the grounds for amending the law, that we are going to pursue interdepartmental resolution and believe that even for all these funds, even the budget supply itself will not be sufficient. That there will probably be some funds, some other ways to pick up, maybe even donor funds to actually do it to the end. And it is certainly not enough to plan what will happen in the budget in 2002, 2003; here we must seriously put our hands forward and then stick to them, and then this government will be responsible if anything goes wrong. I'd say the next thing I know, I can't accept these items. Look, we have been fighting for the science field for five years, we forget here that a national science development programme has also been adopted in this National Assembly, which has never been implemented. And every year, science lost in a gross social product to agree to 0.67 percent. And now this science, which for the first time received as much real-paid projects as the amount of personal income guaranteed, would have been given because Mr Minister had previously signed a collective agreement, but did not pay the collective contract because the state did not provide him with the funds, finally came into effect and now they are supposed to take the funds out of this item. That's supposed to be, like, a little immoral. We know that we have contractual obligations, that we have to pay deposits, that we have obligations to the library, to the central technical library, to all this and we will settle it. We've even checked these funds to bridge this year, they don't need to be that high. We've calculated that 96 million is needed, not 188. This was also confirmed by the director of the library. We're going to bridge this year with these funds. With the funds that MOL has, we will buy some apartments to the end, review, revalue the investment and prepare a bill for the National Assembly. That means we're not standing in the Ministry and we're not looking at the air, and we're saying we're not interested in this project. That's the wrong interpretation. However, if we are already going to undertake this project, we must take responsibility to be responsible for it as well. And right now, these funds that are here are not essential to this project. They're not gonna help anything. But it's going to be a big echo of who we took those funds to. It's about that, it's about the wrong line, not that these funds are really necessary. The ministry will make sure that nothing will stop this year, despite the fact that this amendment will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Of course, I have no particular reason to believe those words. Of course, I don't have any, and I don't have to explain it either, but the experience of the committee on which we discussed it and the promises that have been there to this day teach me that we haven't even received these explanations. These complications, I've said this before, today would not be if this explanation were and could be verified. We've reached 188 million in check where these funds are expected. It's nothing unusual. I allow the possibility that these numbers are exaggerated. But this time for this check was delayed. And I repeat, not because of the amendment's motions. I told myself earlier that I'm sorry that I signed this, given the items you're drawing from. There's no doubt about that. But I also said that the suggestions were from elsewhere, that we did not invent this ourselves, and that it would seem even less correct to me than what was before in order to take, say, agriculture or these convenient TRPs on defense and I don't know what else, which has also been speculated by my various colleagues in recent years. I thank you for this information, which we also did not have, and we could have it that 2 and a half billion funds have already been made available in recent years. Whether they have been rationally used or not, of course we expect this report from you. But I don't think he's in a hurry for today's session. From the fact that there has been a difference in the use of these funds, of course, I conclude that the NUK has been a handy dairy cow for the Ministry of Science over the past years, that it has received these funds and has spent them for something else. I can be wrong, it's not your fault either, but from here on out, it's very difficult for me to agree with your point of view that this is an interdepartmental problem. It is, in terms of coordination with the government; in terms of responsibility before Parliament and in terms of responsibility for the implementation of the law and the project, it has never happened that one project would be subject to the responsibility of three ministers. It's just that someone's always done it. And from this point of view, it can be unfortunate, and it turns out that it was unfortunate that it was previously in the Ministry of Science, and that it is now even more unfortunate when it is in this united ministry. But for now, this is your obligation. The things that concern the Ministry of Culture or the city and others in some way were things that were contractually arranged and, as far as I know, fully realized. There is no reason for me to explain now what I was doing on the government as a former Minister of Culture and how I convinced my former colleague, Mr Marinček, that it was reasonable to do so and how the Ministry of Culture provided all the resources for archaeology, which was at its own time responsible for the fact that the project was standing. I'm not going to talk about the names that asked us to stall with archeology, so that we don't have to finish the project, and that's what was happening - that's irrelevant. But I want to say from this city, because I was challenged by what I was doing as a former minister, that the Ministry of Culture has fully fulfilled its obligations before being a brother at the Ministry of Science. Today, I suppose the problem of the Ministry of Culture, the heritage administrations, is that these constructions are not being done, because they must be part of the means, because of the conventions that the National Assembly has ratified, they must be part of the means to preserve the site. It would be fair if the Ministry of Education paid for it, but I don't think it will. I can also tell you that the Ministry of Culture in the past year and a half ago organised the construction of replacement warehouses that have been implemented, and in which NUK is now moving part of its activities and thus reducing costs. That's why it seems unfair to pass a ball, if you do, to talk about it before. This is also what I was talking about in the previous government and more, what touched the station for which I was responsible, I think we have also realized in the majority. But it is not exactly that it is now the responsibility of the city, but that of the Ministry of Culture. That's it, I'll say misleading the public. That's just not true. And that is why I think it is wise, despite everything, to try, I will also say to the National Assembly with these gestures of determination in some way to force the Department of State to bring things to an end. But according to the numbers you've said, I don't believe you'll be able to say, "Okay, everybody is wrong in front of us, 1 billion 833 million is thrown away, let this be the monument of the Romans." Maybe you'll do it. There's never been a hero like that before. You can do this. And from this point of view, once again, the explanations that were against this amendment did not explain which would convince me not to appeal for the support of others. And even though you claim that, in fact, there were no plans for those 90 million to be received by the way. I don't know where that came from either. Where did the 90 come from, if there's no amendment since then? That's illogical. If, after that discussion, it was clear that it was necessary instead of 188 90 or more, then we would expect an amendment for at least 90. He's not here. That's not, I'll say, right up to the National Assembly. And that's why I think it's wise to support it. And you, in the year you will have at your disposal, will prepare all those reports and proposals for decisions. But I agree that the government will have to decide that. And there's something else. If they don't hold your projection for the next few years, then I'm asking you if they're holding on to other items. For the next two years, you have foreseen a heavy billion funds. This is where you said it wasn't true. I'm asking if they're holding the others. These are documents that are the basis for midterm decision-making. And these discussions, of course, go beyond this 188 million. I'm aware of that. But since the rules of procedure are such that we can talk about it, I'm holding on to this 188 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Since the tick has begun to unfold very strongly, I must also say a few words. The items listed in the amendment are one of the items in this budget. This budget has thousands and thousands of items. It's not here, it's not here, it's not here, it's not here, it's here, it's not here, it's here, it's not here, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there. The items were by no means the product of my imagination, but they were presented in accordance with the Ministry's experts. I'm not gonna quote names or anything, because I've been pretty fair so far, and I'm gonna keep going. Even on the Committee on Finance, I personally led myself to all those who signed the amendment, which was so formulated an apology, because if I was seduced, I also seduced them into good faith that the items are what they are. However, those items on needs that are presented and that are contractual, that is to say documentation, for utility connections, for the completion of all matters which are, for contractual obligations, for deposits which are and are standing, certainly because the National University Library in its basic function is a library that stores for future generations and therefore does not have room. That's why there's a law that says you have to build a new one. And the current depots for all those books we keep for future generations, the sown spaces. And for these rented premises, you just have to pay huge millions. And those items that, because I am also a member of the NUK Council, I can stand behind them and doubt that the NUK Director has landed and said they are smaller than they were. Keron knows well, and even in all the records, they're what they are. It is said that those items that are needed for the National University Library are and stand. But everything else is in the process of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on all the open sub-programmes of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I just want to point out the amendment we tabled, and that's help in high school. I regret that the parental committee did not support this and that the government did not want to discuss this at all. Look, high school education at the turn of the millennium is really necessary for the normal functioning of work processes. In Slovenia, social justice and balanced regional development are increasingly being discussed. We've heard so much today. However, when these principles should be applied and money is simply running out, political will is running out. Today, it is unacceptable for the Slovenian people that secondary schoolchildren from rural areas are in an inappropriately poor situation with regard to the possibility of obtaining appropriate education as their peers from the immediate vicinity of secondary schools. The transport of children to school is very high in the family budget in many families. I know this very well because I represent the electoral environment of Jura, the railways, where children have to drive to Škofja Loko or to Kranj. In multi-child families, it even happens that because of their social situation, they cannot enroll in the school they want, or even that they cannot be included in the secondary education system at all. Like I said, in the 21st century, we can't afford that. We talk a lot about equal opportunities, and it's time to provide them. It's like the old Romans say, "Hic Rodos, Hic Salta." Every citizen deserves to be given education in accordance with his abilities and diligence, regardless of his social status. Talking about an information society, I'm afraid, is just a diversion until we provide all high school students with a really free education. The proposed amendment also seeks to minimise the burden on family budgets by making secondary school nutrition more regressive. Proper and regular nutrition is a prerequisite for healthy growth and development of adolescents. For this purpose, the State must not save. I hope this amendment is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u342	Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded the general debate and are moving to a vote. Thus, we are on the list number 29 of the review. First, we vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "high school education". We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 14 to 29. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the amendment to the sub-programme "high school education" has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme "Sports Programmes". First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. In favour of 10 votes against 31. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] Against 31.) I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 33. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to a vote on the three amendments to the sub-programme "primary education". First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 10 to 34. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to a vote on the two amendments to the sub-programme "General, Secondary and Vocational Education". Vote explanation, Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u343	I apologize for being fluent, but only so much to explain: if the second amendment, the amendment of the committee, is adopted, then these resources are intended for Ptuj High School, Maribor High School of Forestry and Gorica Secondary Technical Agricultural and Housing School. However, if the first amendment is voted, the funds are also intended for the Kranj secondary agricultural school, the Kranj secondary milk and agricultural school, the Celje health school, the Murska Sobota secondary economic school, the Slovenian Bistrica secondary school, the Maribor secondary economic school and the Mosta high school in Ljubljana. That's the whole difference. That's why I'm going to vote first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. First, we vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "general, secondary and vocational education", under order number 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 18 to 22. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 30 votes to 12. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "adult education". We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme "help in primary education". We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 38. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also voting on the amendment to the sub-programme "help in secondary education". We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on two amendments to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture, the sub-programme "lover's culture". The amendment under 1 shall be proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Under 2 is the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andre Bajuk. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it either. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's a 9-to-33 vote. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 34. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment to the budgetary user of the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural heritage, namely the sub-programme "renewal, reconstruction and construction of monuments". The amendment shall be proposed by a group of Members with the first signed Magi. Andrei Vissiak. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 10 to 28. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia, to the sub-programme "Administrative of the Council of Justice". The amendment is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; the Government supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 6. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the last amendment, namely the amendment to the budgetary user, the administrative unit Maribor, the sub-programme "administrative administrative units". The amendment is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Sasha Pecett; they do not support the Government and the original working body of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. In favour of 10 votes against 31. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on special work in full. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I missed Mr Barovic, who wanted to explain his voice. Mr. Barovich, please. We will vote again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u345	Yeah, how can she miss me, of course! I know she's in a hurry to go home, and so are we. Like my boss, I'm going to ask first, given the rules that are new to him - or I think I know him - but in this society I never know when a vote can be explained before the final adoption of the budget, it is now, it's later. Is that it now? Is that later?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u346	We are now deciding on a specific work, i.e. the second part entirely, only this special work, where we have now discussed and decided on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u347	All of it. Only in this special part where we have now discussed and decided on amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u348	Thank you very much. I'll wait, I hope someone reminds me when I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u349	Thank you very much. We'll write it down and we'll get back to you. We therefore decide on the specific work as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Does anyone want a word in the general debate? Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the plan, please choose Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u350	I'm sorry, you may not have seen me, and also my colleagues who would like to vote on this, but I have previously raised a question that was not included in those 188 million, but could refer to it in this part, and I would be wondering if the Minister would know what to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u351	There's no secretary at the moment. Madam Minister, if you are anywhere near here, please join us. The honourable Member wants an explanation. Mr. Scholch, you insist that the Minister give you an explanation. We'll wait for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u352	If the minister doesn't think it matters to her, then I don't insist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Therefore, since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision-making plan for the development programmes. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy whether the state budget for revenue and expenditure is harmonised. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u354	The state budget needs to be harmonised in the general part of the state budget. In view of the adoption of the amendments in particular work, the general part is amended. The government will be practically, I hope that in half an hour there's a harmonisation amendment, so we can move on. And we will have a government meeting in the meantime, and we will do so because there are no serious problems regarding the harmonisation amendment. Only this general part shall be corrected accordingly. No problem. Easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u355	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I note that the state budget is not harmonised. In half an hour, the government will prepare an amendment to harmonise the state budget. Until the amendment of the government, the mother labour body will also be identified. So I interrupt this agenda item and we continue at 22 hours. I ask the representative of the home labourer how long it takes for the mother labour body to be defined by the government's proposal. The government is half an hour away, says up to 20 minutes in nine, a government-sponsored harmonisation amendment will be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u356	The mother's working body will do its job within a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u357	Does that mean it's 15 minutes till 10:00?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u358	That's too much, too bad time. It's 9:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u359	The services must also multiply the material. If the esteemed National Assembly permits, we will continue our work for 15 minutes until 10 p.m. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session, and we continue for 15 minutes until 10 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u360	It is so nice to see such a clear Parliament at this hour. The material is still being distributed and immediately thereafter we will move on to the decision-making process and in any event complete this item of the agenda - this was a consensus, agreement at the consultation - and then we will decide how to proceed. Do you have all the Members and Members of Parliament before you? First of all, ladies and gentlemen, by inserting the cards into the voting apparatus, we will determine the presence in the Chamber. We're picking up the presence in the hall and asking for silence. I note that 54 Members and Members are present and that we can continue the meeting. Dr. Bayuk's colleague asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Proposal for a procedural character. Just 20 seconds ago, we received a proposal for a coordination amendment from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask for half an hour's rest so that the Group of Members can examine this matter. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u362	You have this right and will enforce it before making a decision. We will now ask the government representative to explain the harmonisation amendment. Will you, Madam Secretary of State? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some amendments relating to the specific part of the budget have been voted and, as a result, the structure of the general part of the budget has been changed. This is why the government has prepared a harmonisation amendment adapting the general budget to the new content of the specific budget. The general part of the budget changes in those parts where amendments have been tabled. This changes the expenditure on goods and services of 20 million tolars or a total of 121 million tolars, which includes the second and third amendments. There is also a change in interest on 100 million tolars, which includes the fifth amendment. Furthermore, the investment expenditure volume changes by 201 million tolars, which includes the second and fifth amendments. For investment transfers, the total volume of change of 100 million tolars plus and minus is zero, which includes the first, second and fifth amendments. In fact, this is the content of the harmonisation amendment, and the development programme plan is also being amended on four sub-programmes. Sub-programme "investment and development programmes to municipalities", "development regional programmes of direct regional incentives", "general, secondary and vocational education" and sub-programme "administrative of the Council of Justice" in accordance with the amendments adopted in the specific part of the budget. This is actually the content of the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u364	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the chairman of the Finance Committee? Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy addressed that harmonisation amendment to the supplementary draft budget and supported it without discussion. At the same time, it also proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of an additional decision, as set out in the opinion of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u366	Thank you very much, colleague Pucko, chairman of the committee responsible. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I warn them if this option is to be provided that, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 233 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, their statements or positions shall not exceed a maximum of 5 minutes. Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget. Dr. Byuk proposed a half break and according to the Rules of Procedure, I assign this time, 15 to 11 p.m. or until 23 p.m., then we will continue. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u367	Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. If there's another break, I'll give you a good morning, and it's still a good night! We wait for Dr. Bajuk if he wants to take advantage of the presentation of his views, but not for long, so - whether Dr. Bajuk will come to the hall soon or we will be forced to continue without hearing about this decision after they have taken half an hour off. I believe that there is no one from the New Slovenia Group. The emissary group took a half break. Would you like to give your opinion? Before that, we will determine the presence in the hall. There are 58 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Mr. Drobnič, would you like to explain the views of the parliamentary group? Please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u368	If you'll allow a few more seconds to join us, Mr. Bayuk. [[I think he's at the door right now.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u369	Dr. Bajuk, we're waiting for you to convey the views of the delegation if you'd like. Would you like a word, Dr. Bayuk? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u370	Thank you very much. We have examined this document and have no comment on it, and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u371	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The harmonisation amendment was declared by 51 of them and 5 of them opposed it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. Explanation of voice. Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Whoever's waiting, wait. If I were a Muslim religion, I'd probably be called a prophet, because what I'm holding in my hand, I wrote five days ago, and it really wasn't any different, gentlemen. The 2001 budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a disgrace to the democracy of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a way of taking a jefars. A farce directed by a liberal democracy and a government coalition. Let the Slovenians hear today what democracy is like in this House when the 2001 budget is adopted. Mr. Tone Partlych, you obviously have something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u373	I'm asking for peace in the hall! My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u374	The budget was written by who, government ministers, gentlemen from the ruling coalition of liberal democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democracy of DeSUS and SLS+SKD - Slovenian People's Party. They have made a list of whom they have to settle past debts and debts for successful electoral success. This budget was then given to the parliamentary procedure by government gentlemen and today, after many hours, I wonder why. When we first-reading Members tabled an amendment to the budget, government gentlemen were ordered to reject all of them in a row. And they threw them away, of course, in their mother's labor. Without reading them, I guarantee it. Then, for the second reading of the budget with the new Rules of Procedure, gentlemen took the opportunity of individual Members to table amendments. They have invented that amendments to the budget may be submitted by those who collect 23 signatures to the amendment tabled. They thought that we would not succeed as individuals. Well, we are. We've put the amendments on the budget in another. The story was the same. Repeatedly, all the amendments tabled were rejected on the parent working body again after the current tape. And so it was today in Parliament. Just tell me why Members have spent hours and hours of hard work on many working bodies. Tell me why. Nothing's changed. We have tabled amendments to a good extent to correct what we estimate is not good in the budget. Nobody knows everything. In order to provide their fellow citizens with the necessary resources for better and more coherent development. As I mentioned earlier, gentlemen of the ruling coalition have not read them at all. Their mockery is, I hope, recorded in a television camera. One day, people will yawn. They mock not me, but their constituents, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There's something else I know. Some among the ruling coalition, among the members had what was typical of men and told me in my face that they had been ordered not to sign the amendments and that they should not support any amendments. Except for the ones of course that are good for them. This is proven, evident directly from the eyes to the eyes of at least four people. I myself have tabled an amendment of 0.01% of budget money or, in other words, one good audit for the rehabilitation of the infirmary - because it doesn't matter, you already know that in the trebville hospital - it covers 50,000 people. Well, I was, in particular, "very pleased" in sayings, when I saw that also some Members from Zasavje in the types of liberal democracy of Slovenia, who were trusted, trusted and voted, did not sign the amendment. The gentlemen cut themselves today - this is a Slovenian expression, if you don't know it, trebwellian especially - and played the Romans. But once again, they were not mocking me, they were mocking their constituents. Unfortunately for us, gentlemen, this is what the camera recorded, and people will see it. And where is the truth? The government's wish is to abolish small hospitals, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] and because they do not hope to do it as men, they want to do it finely, past the national programme, past verification, past the money they could spend on investment, send a commission in two years to find out - I will finish it immediately, allow everyone ten seconds, please, if I do - the Commission will find that the hospital does not comply with the national programme, the verification, and they will shut it down peacefully, wash their hands and go home and live peacefully. [[...]] Let me tell you something, gentlemen from the ruling coalition that you are playing: every man who dies on a trip from Trubovlje to Ljubljana, because in the abdominal surgical infirmary they won't be able to help him, will be on your conscience if, of course, you still have it, or if you still have it. Demagogy up or down [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u375	Kolga Barovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Ivan Cankar has already met you in his time, about dear servants, that I will not say the characteristic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u377	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Anyone else want to explain their vote before making a decision? Please, Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u378	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. What we accept today and how we accept it is not, of course, proud of the democracy of Slovenia, in what way, one fundamental act for the functioning of the country. It's true what my colleague said before me. We tried to prepare the amendments, conclude coalitions, so to speak, with good intentions, without in any way undermining the financial situation, but all the amendments were rejected. Good amendments have been tabled. The problem is the procedure as adopted. Of course, that is why, you will say, the rules of procedure have been adopted. You've got your own image of the book. But what is the biggest problem that will follow from this budget, which awaits the citizens, will be the most important and will be the most visible. I am risking an opinion or a claim that you do not believe in this budget either. You will see, this budget will change so quickly. Of course, the government will do so at its meetings. It will move budget lines, but we have adopted a professional, structurally divided act here in good faith. In the meantime, of course, I also checked the credibility of the Members. You know what amendment it's been with since 1993. It was after the same hooves. With a slight smile of a ruling party. Therefore, I hope that citizens will see this as an eight-year promise, a meeting with citizens, and then a joke like that. Support for the pediatric clinic. This was also a significant case. When journalists and I ask you about supporting this humanitarian act, we are all happy to say 'yes, we are in favour'. Even so, the people, Members of the ruling coalition, who are key to preparing the budget, come out with such amendments, first before the press, as the biggest advertisement, how humane they are. Then the vote goes smoothly to the same work as the others. These are the facts. Or rather, it's a hoax. Otherwise, I can't say. These are, of course, the reasons why I have decided to vote against this budget, against its structure and content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u379	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Do any other Members want a word or any of the Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I hereby conclude the presentation or explanation of vote in the decision on the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Members and Members of Parliament, I give the Republic of Slovenia's 2001 budget in full to decide. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present in the Chamber. There were 49 votes for the budget and 10 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 has been adopted. I propose that we adopt a decision, an additional decision submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Committee: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the Ministry of Finance and Members of the National Assembly of colleagues Cyril Puck, Ferij Horvat and Dr Andrej Bajuk to prepare, following the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 in accordance with the amendments adopted and the amendments adopted to harmonise the state budget and with the cooperation of the Section of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the final edition of the budget for publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia". Anybody want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] This is my conclusion for the vote. 61 Members and Members are present. 52 supported the proposal, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] Colleagues and colleagues at the time the Finance and Government Committee met, we consulted in the leadership of the National Assembly and among the leaders of the parliamentary groups on how to proceed with this meeting of the National Assembly. We've decided that no matter what the delay, in any case, we're finishing the point that we've just concluded. Then there were differing opinions as to whether the national assembly should continue or not today. Representatives of coalition parties are willing to work ahead, while opposition representatives said they felt it would be better or more appropriate if the National Assembly took some time off and continued on Tuesday. I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that we continue our work on Tuesday at 10 a.m. If this proposal does not receive the necessary majority, this will mean that, in accordance with the decision we have taken this morning, the National Assembly is continuing its work today. And the clock is something in eleven. I think it is right that such an important state act as the budget, the National Assembly as the legislator treats and adopts such that there will be no objection to the fact that the voting machine has done its job, and now you will decide whether or not you agree with this proposal. I therefore propose to the vote that we proceed on Tuesday at 10 a.m. We're voting. 28 colleagues voted in favour, 32 against. I note that this proposal, in order to continue on Tuesday, did not receive the necessary majority. Therefore, the National Assembly will continue its work today We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S ON A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2001. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u380	Dear Members! Dear Members! Dear President! The Public Finance Act requires us to adopt, at the same time as the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2001, establishing the structure of a specific part of the budget, the procedures for its implementation, the specificities of the administration of the State's property, the extent of the debt and guarantees of the State and the specificities of the financing of municipalities. The proposed law on the implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia aims to strengthen the programme approach in the preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget, improve the coordination of work between direct users, limit the reallocation of spending rights in the budget, rationalisation and more efficient operation of the country. The law also specifies the assigned revenue and expenditure in the financial investment and claims account, as well as the financing account, such as the purchase of capital investments paid in the budget under the law on the application of the assets of the purchaser, under the law on the real estate conversion of enterprises and the purchase of capital investments of the State resulting from the implementation of the State-owned sales programme for 2001. The purchase from the sale of shares in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Bank of Maribor will be made in accordance with the law for repayment of debts in the financing account. The same applies to all other benefits to be realised to an extent exceeding the total amount of the receipts of the financial investment account and the claims planned in the adopted budget. It is important to say that the law tightens the conditions when a direct budgetary user can self-distribute funds between items within the same sub-programme. In doing so, the redeployment shall not exceed 20% of the volume of the item in the budget adopted. At the next level, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide on transfers in cases where the volume of transfers exceeds 20% of the sub-programmes within the main programme, with transfers not exceeding 20% of the total sub-programme between the main programmes within the area of budgetary spending, with transfers not exceeding 15% and between areas of budgetary spending where transfers must not exceed 10% of the total area of expenditure. The law also sets out the total volume of direct user obligations to be paid in the coming years for investment expenditure, investment transfers, and military materials and equipment, or for special police equipment, which must not exceed 70% of these spending rights in the financial plan adopted. However, goods and services and current transfers must not exceed 25% of the spending rights in the financial plan adopted. The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 provides that part of the revenue from value added tax and from excise duties to be paid to the budget up to and including 31.1.2002 shall be included in the revenue of the budget for 2002 provided that the total amount of revenue from the budget for 2001 is realized before that date in the amount planned in the budget adopted. In order to ensure that the envisaged procedures for the sale of state and real property could be carried out smoothly, the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia 2001 also lays down the basic procedures and methods for the sale of State, real and financial property, pending the adoption of amendments to the Public Finance Act. This ensures the transparency of the property sales procedures provided for in the national financial and real estate sales programme. Dear Members and Members! As I have already said, the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget needs to be addressed at the same time as the adoption of the budget. The implementation of this law is a direct condition for the implementation and implementation of the budget. It is in the interest of all of us that the state budget and the proposed law be put into effect as soon as possible and thus allow for the normal financing and functioning of the country this year. That is why, of course, I suggest you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u381	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The parent labour body considered the law at 8 and 9 and at the second and third meetings of the 10th Extraordinary Committee, and adopted a decision after the general discussion to propose to the National Assembly that the law should be adopted on an urgent basis. In view of the numerous comments, the specific comments and proposals made by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters to Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20 to 25, 29, 36, 38 and 40 of the legislative proposal, the Committee adopted a number of amendments below to take account of the substantial comments made by the secretariat. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Committee, that the National Assembly support all the amendments it has drafted and proposed by the Committee and those amendments which the Committee has supported. These are amendments to Articles 2, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 20, 21, 22, 23, 29, 33, 35 and 40. These are the committee's amendments. And those amendments which, as I mentioned earlier, have also been supported by the Committee, including the amendment by Dr Slavko Gabra, which the Committee has taken and made sense in one part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the new Slovenia parliamentary group, Dr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u384	Thank you very much. In fact, before I speak as a representative of the new Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to say a few words, Madam President, about the functioning of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u385	Dr. Andrej Bajuk, if you'll excuse me, I'm giving the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups right now. If you wish to present your views, there will be an opportunity to discuss in this direction, it will certainly be for the individual amendments tabled by your Commission. It is true now that you wish to present the opinion of the Group of Members, because we are in this part, which is also in line with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking you to stick to this. If you would like to present the opinion of your Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u386	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group on this law will be forwarded to each article individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Bozič, on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have some comments in our parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget and the main comments are on Articles 10 and 12. Earlier, at the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I spoke of the fact that Article 10 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget destroys everything we have ever adopted under a programme called the National Programme. We considered them to be roads, railways and more, and all of this will be destroyed by the first paragraph of Article 10 because it is stated that national programmes are only implemented at the level provided for in this budget for 2001. This is almost unreasonable for us, because we should, however, have a national programme and a law if it was adopted for something that we had heard about the library in Ljubljana before, why it should not be done. The second paragraph of Article 10 is also very controversial for us. I come from the Slovenian Group of Christian Democrats. We were the first supporters of the motorway programme of the Republic of Slovenia. The second paragraph states that the motorway programme shall be implemented only to the extent foreseen in this budget. Then why do we have a law on the collection of a gas tolar? Why do we collect tolls and rent expensive loans to build motorways and so on, because we don't use them in time, but we spend a lot, a lot of money on intercal interest? If and when we consider the national programme or plan for the Republic of Slovenia motorway for 2001, we will see how much intercal interest is there. Then we will recall the extent to which we today have rejected the amendments, which the proponents have really advocated well. So for us, Article 10 is a little bit controversial. Article 12 is the same. Overloads that are allowed at 70% are too high. Because if we went to the 70 % overload of the plan this year, it would mean that we would not cover this year's overload or overburden with the Ministry of Transport for State Roads. If we spend another 70% on the second year, we'll be on the same year as this year. We're not going to have any new facilities, but we're just going to finish this year's facilities. We support the amendments of the Committee, in particular the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for Article 12. We hope that the government will make us truly happy with the plan for two or all three years that we still have in our term. Because every year with the construction program broken down, it's like I've said several times. The road from Bohinj to Sorish Mountain has been under construction for the last 20 years. Every other year we go and build 900 meters, take all the machines and come back to the construction site in one year. That's what it costs. I hope that the government will make this Parliament happy with its two-year plan and the best for the end of the term, it says, in three years. In this respect, we will also support the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u389	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Social Democratic Party cannot support such a law on the implementation of the budget, particularly for the following reasons. We estimate that this law confers too much power on governments to implement the budget and that these powers virtually destroy the role and importance of the state budget adopted. Many articles in this Act allow the government to redistribute, overload, exchange, debt and also privatisation or resale of capital shares of state property. I therefore stress this fear in particular, and this concern at all for the role of Parliament in Slovenian democracy. From today's documents that we have adopted; from the development agendas adopted here today in the National Assembly; from the investment programme that the government also submitted to the National Assembly yesterday, and which it has apparently adopted at yesterday's meeting, there are already major differences and inconsistencies. This testifies to the fact that what we have accepted is not necessarily true or not true, but that the government will be able, by means of the instruments it has at its disposal, to change and withdraw those investments for which a consensus will be reached in the government, and not those investments or projects that this National Assembly has adopted. I think that this is a fundamental and fundamental thought and a fundamental dilemma that we have dealt with in the Social Democratic Party. We stress that we cannot so devalue the work and decision of the National Assembly. Let me just list some evidence or a few arguments that support these points of view. In fact, before that, I would like to point out that the secretariat for legislation in its work has pointed to a number of dilemmas, a number of contentious issues and ambiguities, particularly the ambiguity of this law on the implementation of the budget. I must say that we also agree with most of these warnings in our party. Most of these warnings are not addressed by the amendments adopted by the Finance Committee on this basis. In particular, the ambiguities of certain concepts and certain sets of concepts allow for different interpretations and very plastic and flexible exercise with public finances, which, of course, we cannot agree with. In the Social Democratic Party we advocate clear, transparent solutions; spending public money, which will not only be clear to us here, but must also be clear from the balance sheet and from all the documents that the National Assembly receives and accepts. There is nothing clear from these documents available to us today, or much is not clear - this can be acknowledged by many coalition Members if they put their hands on their hearts. I would like to stop at some of the most controversial points and articles of this proposal of the law on the implementation of the budget. This is the famous 6th article, which we have talked about today and which we are restoring here again somehow. We believe that this article is in total contravention of the Systemic Law on Public Finances. I think that public finances are being built according to one hierarchy of rules, which is certainly a system document and a system law, this is a law on public finances, before the annual law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, the law on the implementation of the budget must be in line with the law on public finances. In our client, we estimate that this is not the case. We have therefore also called on the Government's secretariat for legislation in writing to provide us with an interpretation or legal opinion on this subject. This was done this morning. I hope that the Secretariat has this position and that it will be able to provide us with this position today. I would also like to draw attention to the third paragraph of Article 8 where, outside the redistribution limits set out in Article 8, exercise with these transfers in the event of changes in economic movements is permitted. This is said - if I understand this correctly - if the state expects and will find that its forecast of, say, 4 and a half percent of economic growth will not be adequate and growth will be estimated at, say, 4%, giving it a manoeuvre and also a legal or formal basis to redistribute. I don't think that's right. I think that, after such a time frame, the changed economic movements must not hide as serious a matter as interference and reallocation beyond those 20s, 15s and 10s per cent, as set out in the first two paragraphs of Article 8. Therefore, we believe that Article 8(3) is unnecessary, since the 40th Article of the Public Finance System Law is sufficient to identify and allow reallocation in the case of certain exceptional cases, such as various major accidents and other unloving events, which in fact require a rapid response by the State and a rapid response by the Government to these matters. However, I do not think that it excuses these interventions in reallocations merely an assessment of the changed economic trends. I would also like to stop at Article 12, which speaks of these famous overloads, which we have already talked about a lot today. And I think that in these frameworks, which are once again left to the government, they're essentially too big. In particular because they allow for further negative effects of these overloads, which are causing some national programmes to collapse today and cannot be implemented. Let me just mention the highway program. I do not want this kind of reinvestment and investment to happen in the same way as investments in school space, culture and other necessary projects in our country. Then there's Article 14. This famous general budget provision, for which it is known exactly, for what purposes it may be used. However, in our law on the implementation of the budget, it applies to salaries and some printing. I cannot be convinced here today that in the middle or the end of April we do not know how much and what we will need in the state administration. That is why I do not think that the general budget provision should be devoted to these purposes of the Budget Implementation Act. Here we estimate that there is a hidden employment and a proliferation of bureaucracy in the public authorities, against which we are very opposed. We believe that too much growth in wage lines is already coming from the budget itself.In the whole state administration, it is about 10% real growth, which is above the expected inflation of another 10%. We believe that this is too much for our country and our economy to do so. In order to keep wages and employment expansion hidden in this general budget reservation, I think it is extremely unacceptable. Article 28, which also refers to debts, speaks and specifies a certain extent of indebtedness, with little or no limit on liability for defence, the issue of compensation bonds for the cancellation of the confiscation of property, the borrowing of the State by the Bank of Slovenia on the basis of treasury coins. We believe that - leaving the government's free deadlines for borrowing from these programmes, which are exempt from the suspicion that is defined and that is, or for the poor 30 billion tolars - that is not right. If not the other, the government should at least respond to the extent to which it intends to undertake these programmes. When issuing guarantees to domestic legal persons where the state budget limits the amount or where this law limits the amount to 70 billion, it is unclear to whom and in which proportions the government should answer more clearly the questions, how much and which legal persons and what amounts. In short, I have listed just a few cases that leave the government very free of hands and very free decision-making in the management of public finances. What is the worst - in our opinion - leaves one job free with the budget already adopted on the basis of the fast-track arguments found in this law on the implementation of the budget. We estimate that the work of the National Assembly must have its weight. We estimate that the budget should be adopted in this national assembly. From this title, we cannot agree with such an easy change of these decisions by the government and, of course, with the formal basis adopted here for the government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u391	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u392	Thank you. I've had a little longer than that, but I'll be brief. Our parliamentary group has had a difficult time running through the budget, through a number of materials, limited time, and limited opportunity and participation in many working-body meetings. This is also the case with the law on the implementation of the budget. I'm sure we'd have more comments, more think that some of the provisions are just not what they want. However, the law and the proposed amendments, as drafted at the end of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, will be supported. We know that this law sets out sensitive issues, such as the sale of state property, property and capital, reallocation within budgetary users, overloads, which have already been discussed several times. We expect that the year 2000 will not happen when the budget has experienced so much overload that we do not have something to share on some items. Since this is the first year after the elections, I do not think there will be any such political redeployments for the new electoral results. We also want the government to implement this law with all seriousness, in order to carry out with full responsibility certain tasks which this law imposes, even though there are no sanctions in this law, as are normally other non-execution laws. It's just political, I'd say, responsibility for this implementation. We want to take seriously the issue of equality of all entities, taxpayers, taxes and contributions so that some will not be happy to go beyond their obligations to the country and have their hands on rich money, while others, acting strictly, conscientiously and honestly, by law, pay everything and often have their capacity to exist. Like I said, we're gonna support this marriage. We are soon expecting a new budget for 2002, an appropriate law for the implementation of this budget for 2002 and beyond if it is multiannual. We will pay more attention to these issues, and even then we will include ourselves with some proposals for change. This time, too, we had an amendment to somehow improve the discipline of budget implementation, payment discipline, liquidity planning and the implementation of this liquidity. Unfortunately, because the committee indicated that the amendment was not so that the government could also implement it, then we withdrew it from the procedure. So we will continue to support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views? I guess not. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u394	Actually, I don't have a debate. However, I would like to put forward a proposal of a procedural nature, avoiding this rerun of the former meetings of the Federal Assembly in Belgrade, which has also generally adopted budgets at night, being too late. We have already asked the secretariat for legislation and legal matters in the morning for the legal interpretation of Article 2 of the Public Finance Act, in conjunction with Article 6 of the Act, which we are currently considering. We haven't gotten this interpretation yet. I'd like to ask that the moment the secretariat makes it to introduce it. However, this interpretation is certainly to be achieved in the course of the debate. Otherwise, we will be forced to take breaks until this interpretation is done. I would like to point out in advance that we should get him as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u395	Do any other Members or Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to be considered here the decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're picking up the presence in the hall! I find that there are no 57 Members and Members present in the Chamber, so I will not consider this result valid. Please check with your fellow Members and Members if their cards have been mistakenly lodged. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. We're voting. As I said before, before the colleagues came to the Chamber, I propose that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, the National Assembly discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members and Members present oppose it. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 44 for, five against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I propose that we begin by considering and deciding on the amendments tabled in the bill. First, I am putting an amendment to Article 2 into the debate and decision-making. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I shall put the amendment, under order number 1 to Article 2, to the vote. We're voting! There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 45 voted in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 2 in its entirety. There are 53 Members and Members present. 44 were in favour, 3 were against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. The amendment is also tabled under Article 5. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5 on the other side of our review. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 44, 2 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 45 for, two against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text of Article 5 is fully adopted. We have the amendments to Article 6. Anybody want a word about them? Comrade Janš, colleague of Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u396	We are now dealing with this dilemma concerning which we have asked for legal interpretation. Our view is that the article is completely contrary to the law on public finances and should not be. Therefore, we propose to delete it. Since the opinion of the Ministry was different before the decision was made, we would like to hear what the opinion of the Law Service is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u397	I ask the secretariat to explain the opinion asked by my colleague Janš. We're talking about Article 6. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u398	Mr President, the secretariat received a question actually a few minutes ago because it was sent from the rest of the mail to the table and introduced itself to it. The opinion will be delivered orally if the Group of Members is satisfied with this. If he wants an opinion in writing, we'll have to back off to write it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u399	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u400	No, it can be oral, that's all we need right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u401	Secretariat, do you need some time to think?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u402	Mr President, we need some more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u403	How much?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u404	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u405	Fifteen minutes. We'll continue at 2400 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u406	I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. I invite the representatives of the secretariat to come to the hall and present their position. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, after a brief examination of the issue raised, we provide the following explanation: The applicable laws adopted before the implementation of the Law on Public Finances or at the same time adopted, and some even after its application, give rise to the financial obligations of the State, the medium-term nature of which is necessary in progress, i.e., the individual budget period, to be regularly serviced. In order to cover these obligations, purchases from the sale of State property were identified as a dedicated resource under the relevant laws. In relation to the Public Finance Act, these are special laws that have priority over general or systemic law. For those reasons, the provision of Article 74, or obligations under this Article, may be fulfilled only after the commitment of the dedicated financing of the purchase has been fulfilled and it also provides the basis for the law on public finances, namely, Article 2, paragraph 6. However, we note, as we have in our previous opinions, that the provision of Article 74 of the Public Finance Act should be upgraded because it does not meet all the existing specific situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u408	Thank you very much. We can proceed. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u409	This, although this opinion has been somewhat succinctly said, but, as was said, does not provide a basis for practically denying the law on public finances in the law on the implementation of the budget. While we would like what is said now also in writing, what was finally said is that this law should be corrected, the law on public finances, but it says everything. If the government wants to make a future, now and in the future, a purchase from the sale of state property for other things, not only for the reduction of public debt, then it should amend the law on public finances. As long as this law is in force, it must not be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u410	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u411	So, my view is that this position is perfectly clear. This position is such that it allows us to draw up the law on the implementation of the budget in the way we have proposed and to adopt these solutions. This was clearly and clearly stated. Well, we can accept that. So, just the opposite of what was said. However, it was a recommendation at the end - if I understood correctly if not, let us once again listen to what has been said - to avoid such discussions in the future and to be perfectly clear, let us correct this Article 74. That's what we can do. It is clear from what has been said, however, that we can accept Article 6 as envisaged; that this has been done properly in the past; that it is also proposed correctly and that it makes sense to do so. I don't think there's any more doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u412	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u413	We have a legal order in this country after the constitution. This legal order foresees a hierarchy of legal acts. Thus, the laws cannot be contrary to the Constitution, the acts of law cannot be contrary to the laws, and the laws that speak of the same thing cannot govern the same things differently in two laws. Anyone who knows the basics of law knows that. In this way it is not possible to disrupt this legal compliance. The Secretariat also certainly recognises these dilemmas, otherwise we would not end up saying and in this way have somehow been erased from this trap to recommend that this article be rectified. At the very least, the matter will, if so, experience a constitutional complaint. The result, of course, is not doubt, we all know that. Surely, it is possible for the government to solve this problem through this Article 6 in some other way. Let the general resources be devoted to these things. In any event, the intensity, as the Minister of Finance said, is in the interpretation of the entire budget, so that public debt is also reduced. Let what is to come from the sale of state property really aim for what is referred to in Article 74 of the Public Finance Act. This is not about us - although we also have comments on some of the points that speak here about the purposeful use of these funds, but I am not discussing it. The government can handle these matters that it intends to solve in a legitimate way. What is now proposed is a shortcut - I don't know why she was dressed - which raises concerns even more broadly, not just in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u414	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Comrade Visjak, you have your word, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. If I correctly understood the representative of the secretariat for legislation, she said that certain sectoral laws had been passed much earlier than the law on public finances and had certain obligations. I have before me Article 6 of the Law on the implementation of the budget, which states in point 1 that the purchase from the sale of shares of electricity undertakings to the majority of the good 16 billion tolars, in accordance with Article 122(1) of the Energy Act, Official Gazette 79/99, shall be used to save inherited investments. That means, this is Official Gazette 79/99. The Public Finance Act is the same Official Journal. This means that this sector law - which is basically talking about here - seems to me that more than 50% of this free access to purchases - has been adopted at the same or very similar time. This is not to say that one law was adopted substantially before the other. I don't know if he was one, even if he wasn't that hard to talk about who he was before. [[...]] We don't know. However, they were both published in the same Official Journal. In short, I find it extremely irresponsible to adopt and publish such laws, which are in conflict with each other - which we find today and need only be saved and done. That is to say, this argument - that some of the laws were adopted substantially earlier than others, and that is why he, who was later, cannot be held back - from the case that I mentioned, because there were both regulations: a system regulation and some sectoral regulation, an energy law that speaks of a palette of other matters, but in one segment he makes investments in order to have a stronger weight in some regulated legal system and legal order than a system-wide law on public finances. Sorry, that doesn't convince me. I think we're in some kind of formal error here. I don't know what to do with different system regulations if we can undermine them and make exceptions to the rules in the field. I think it does this to an unconstitutional, opaque legal order and such confusion as we experience every day. I don't think this is a good reason for further work and for further, I would say, the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is no wonder that Mr Minister has listened with such joy and told us, I think five times, how clear the position of the Office of Law was. However, it is interesting, I would like to point out that it is so clear and so simple and how everyone should understand it - so this is how this law was written, this proposal - did not refer to these laws as mentioned by the expert lady, but they mentioned, irrespective of Article 74 of the Public Finance Act. This in itself tells us what was bothering them, where the problem was and why they mentioned it. Too bad they've never seen such clarity before. About clarity! Today, forgive me, yesterday, I have mentioned this huge problem in part already, the opinion of the predecessor, Mr Minister, who was voted in this National Assembly as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and is also the author and key man who has drafted this system law, which unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues, is valid. At the journalist's question: "You trust the government's promises that the revenues from the sale of state property will indeed be devoted solely to reducing public debt!" Mr Governor responds: "The Public Finance Act contains an article that any income from the privatisation of state property can only be used to repay the principals of public debt. At the same time, the new system for presenting public financial balances is such that revenue from privatisations of state assets cannot be counted among the current revenue of the budget and thus be translated into current budgetary expenditure." Dear colleagues and colleagues! Why do we write marriages? Therefore and in them we include restrictions - only in Slovenia! - so that when we get to this limit, we find a really bad shortcut and then we create a new possibility to keep this going, regardless of these articles, and other articles. It's not a legal state! This will never be the rule of law until we comply with our own rules of the game. The situation of public finances is very worrying and not just to me. Mr Prime Minister made this clear in this Chamber when he presented the memorandum of the budget and with stronger concepts than I am now using them. However, a few weeks later in this supplement and in this law we find no matter what, we move on. You know, it reminds me of the man who plays solitaire and brings himself around. Then he's happy to have a success story, because now he's really got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenchev, would you like a word? Mrs. Bitenchev, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u419	I just wanted to clarify, as far as some of the legal theoretical issues are concerned, that, according to legal explanations, special arrangements have priority over general ones and that this is not the only case that the special regime has otherwise settled certain specific issues from the general regulation. We understand Article 74 and its decommissioning only in terms of conditions, I will say, the surplus of funds from this title, after they have, I will say, other special purposes under special laws are exhausted. From this point of view, we have also pointed out that this provision may be awkwardly written because, as it is written, it is, in fact, a direct market of two or more laws and interpretations are needed. This is said to be the case, but according to the legal theory, special regulation always takes precedence over systemic or general regulation. That's all we wanted to stress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u420	Thank you very much. Minister Rob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u421	Thank you very much, dear Dr. Bayuk. I don't know why you're so upset. Actually, you wanted that expert opinion, too. That's an opinion you got that you don't like right now. It's a professional opinion. This opinion has reinforced what we have written in the law on the implementation of the budget. There's absolutely no reason for us to be in a bad mood. It is right that you have read what Mr Gaspari has said. I think Gaspari probably meant Article 74, but this same Gaspari - who said it was in Article 74 and it does say so - used this exception. I can read ZIPRO to you from that year - when he defended him - regardless of Article 74 - see Article 6 of ZIPROTA, which this same Gaspari defended - allows for the use of the purchase also for these purposes. So this same Gaspari knows exactly that in addition to Article 74, Article 3 is also Article 4 as well. This is what we are talking about today and you have received a completely clear expert opinion on this. There's really no reason for us to be in a bad mood here. We got an explanation. I suggest we move on. It was also pointed out that in order to avoid such misunderstandings in future and such discussions, Article 74 should be corrected. We, the Committee on Budgetary Control, will also provide you with an overview of such arrangements in other European countries. I myself know that in some European countries, a few of which are, especially in transition, these revenues have been used even for current consumption of purchases, which is extremely poor. We are not proposing this here in substance, but we are proposing only the restructuring of assets from one form to another, not for current consumption. By really proposing that we move forward and, of course, decide as proposed by the secretariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u422	Thank you very much, Comrade Rob. First Comrade Janš, then Comrade Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u423	I believe it's a late hour and the law department didn't have enough time to look at all these things. We have dealt with this a little more, even with a few lawyers during the day. The explanation just given by Mrs Bitencheva simply does not hold back. Why? Because it's completely simple. Article 6 and Article 2 of the Public Finance Act in paragraph 6 state that the budget is uniform. Anything that comes into the budget can be used at any time to cover any budget expenditure. This is a general provision of the Public Finance Act. Then an exception is laid down in this infamous Article 74. This is already a special provision relating to income from the sale of State property. This exception is already a special provision in the law itself, which simply states that when it comes to capital investments and deposits, this purchase is only used to repay debts in the financing account. It's just a simple thing to do. That's already set. If another law defines the same thing differently, then it's legal chaos. Even if you write a hundred times that regardless of this same article! Nor does this claim mean that in essence it is merely a matter of changing the form of property, as the finance minister says. You can be sure if you read Article 6 of the Budget Implementation Act, where point 3 states that this purchase is also about implementing a support programme for companies and independent entrepreneurs. That purpose is commendable. But you don't buy new assets when you're "flowing" money or subsidizing companies and independent entrepreneurs. Maybe you're encouraging development and so on, but you can't put that in this category. It's just budget spending. There's no water on the two ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u424	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk's colleague. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u425	Thank you very much. I'm not surprised what Mr. Secretary said, "Let's move on," because that's the slogan. We move forward, but in the wrong direction and in the fast way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u426	Anyone else want a word? Can we continue? Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u427	So what is happening now, and not only now, is clearly that the criterion of law is attributed and that there is a much greater role to be given to the criteria for the propriety of practice than to the criterion of law. I'd like to stick to the first one. This is a kiss most people can afford. However, I fully agree with what has been said that this does not lead us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u428	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I conclude this debate and move on to the decision on the amendments tabled to Article 6. First, we'll decide on the amendment under order number one. 1. identical to amendment number 2. If adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 3 will be irrelevant. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 11 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 1 did not receive the necessary support. We will decide on the amendment under order number three. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present, 43 of whom were in favour, 4 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has obtained the required majority. We vote on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present; 37 were in favour and 6 were in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Four amendments are tabled under Article 8. I'm opening a debate on them. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 on page 3 of the review to Article 8. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. 40 were in, 3 were in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. Six for, 38 for. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. The third amendment on page 3 of the review is identical, so we decide on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting! Of the 53 Members and Members, 41 were in favour and 2 were in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] We still have to confirm Article 8 as a whole. I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting! 53 Members and Members are present; 34 were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Three amendments have been tabled for the 11th Article, colleagues and colleagues. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 1 to article 11. We're voting! There were 53 Members and Members present. Two were in, 41 against. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment didn't get the necessary forever. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. I'm putting him to the vote. Please! There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 43, 1 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the text of Article 11 in its entirety. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The text of the Article is fully accepted. We have three amendments to Article 12. Anybody want to talk about them? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. If it is voted, the amendment under 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 3 were in, 40 were against. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There were 14 for, 28 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number three. There are 54 Members and Members present. There were 40 for, like, one for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on Article 12 as a whole. The amendment under order number 3 was given the appropriate majority. Article 12 is fully 40 votes to 45, with one against. We have an amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting! There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 38 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We decide on the text of Article 13 in its entirety. We're voting! There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] Three amendments are tabled under Article 14. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. This is essentially the same as the amendment under point 2. If adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 3 shall be meaningless. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. Five for, 36 for. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 35 were in favour, no one opposed the amendment. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can now decide on the text of Article 14 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 35 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 15. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 3 were in, 38 were against. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on Article 15 as a whole. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 35 for, no one against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The amendment of the Finance Committee has been tabled for the 20th Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 20. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 34 were in favour, 3 were against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 20 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 38 were for, no one was against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 20 is fully adopted. By article 21, we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three in favor, two in favor. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 21 as a whole. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 22. Anybody want a word? Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u429	Thank you very much. I am taking advantage of the opportunity, although directly my conclusion and comment are not only part of Article 23 but also of the articles governing the sale of real and financial assets of the State. If the government were willing to give serious thought to its obligation to the holders of certificates, it should also include at least one toll on the surrender of this part of the property to those holders. Because she's not thinking about it, I can only trust her a little less, even though there's a collective obligation in the coalition that she'll ever do it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u430	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 22. Of the 53 Members present and the Members voted in favour of the amendment, 35 of them were against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on Article 22 as a whole. 53 Members and Members are present. 38 were in favour, 2 were against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] The Article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 23. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I put him to the vote. 34 Members and Members of 53 voted in favour of the amendment, and no one objected. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] We are voting on the whole article. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. We also have one amendment to Article 29. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I put him to the vote. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 34 for, no one against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I now put to the vote the text of Article 29. There's 53 present. The Government is proposing an amendment to the Committee's amendment to its 29th Article. He's holding a minister? It's not in the review. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u431	If I can help. In this case, it's two amendments. The amendment to Article 29 is less important and is the result of a discussion on the home committee. However, the amendment to Article 37 is extremely important and relates to the issue of the law on public funds or of the work we have replaced by this amendment. If the problem is Article 29, I suggest we move forward and [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u432	to be treated in the third treatment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u433	It's okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u434	Will you submit the third reading of the amendment to Article 29? Good. We need to pay attention to Article 36, which we also do not have in our review. Can we proceed with Article 33 now? Then we will now vote on the text of Article 29 in its entirety. May I have your attention in the hall? We vote on the text of Article 29 in its entirety. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 42 were in favour, 3 were in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] The text received the necessary support. Four amendments have been tabled on the 10th and 11th pages of the review. I'm opening a debate on them. My friend just Bevk. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u435	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I have proposed, together with my colleague Danica Simšič, an amendment to Article 33, that this amendment will finance the preservation and restoration of monuments owned by the municipality from the item for the preservation and reconstruction and construction of monuments, this sub-programme and this, the maintenance and construction of monuments in the proportion of 50% of the country and 50% of the local community. Exceptionally, the relationship may change if a specific public interest is identified for the restoration of the monument. I would like to explain this amendment more thoroughly, because he was opposed by the parental committee, but I think he did not fully understand the purpose of this amendment. The protection of cultural heritage is due to its historical, cultural and civil interest in the public interest. Therefore, the law on the financing of local communities defines a system of financing investments in this area as it is unusable because of the general interest of maintaining cultural heritage to this extent that it is not possible to take into account the type of ownership in this maintenance as usual for other local infrastructure facilities. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture usually determines the proportion of the co-financing of each monumental protection project according to the type of proposed intervention on the cultural monument, given the degree of threat to this monument and its national importance. In cases where there is a systematic and interventional solution to the endangered wall painting, wooden plastics and gold altars, special restoration works are referred to as special works, or when it comes to research in archaeological sites or to the development of restoration conservation methods, the share of funding by the Ministry of Culture is usually 100%. To date, the Ministry has also fully financed interventions on cultural monuments that prevent greater damage from occurring, e.g. loss of monumental properties, or even when this prevents the destruction of cultural monuments. Other cultural sites have been co-financed by the Ministry of Culture for decades, even before the cultural community, at 50%, even in cases where they own cultural monuments of the municipality. Exceptionally, this share has changed if there is a specific public interest in the restoration of the monument and the municipality has not been able to provide 50% of the compulsory financial participation for the preservation of the monuments. In addition, it is worth noting that the Ministry financed only the part of the investment that allowed the renovation of the monuments and in no case the whole investment. The only exception to this rule is the monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which are of direct national concern. In view of the provision of Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which sets out the amount of additional funds to which the municipality is entitled, in the financing of individual buildings according to the proportion of income per capita, it is also essential to change the system of municipal participation in the conservation and restoration of cultural monuments, which means that individual municipalities will not be able to provide a share for the restoration of monuments in the programme, we propose that the current system of financing investments in the field of the protection of immovable cultural heritage, which is owned by local communities, be maintained. This would also ensure the legality of the continuation of the real estate monument programme, which would otherwise be at risk. A respected choir! Protection of cultural heritage is a constitutional category. A completely pointless criterion is that the proportion of co-financing depends on where the monument is located, where it is located, in the territory of which of the Slovenian municipalities lies, not on the importance of the cultural and historical monument for Slovenian history and its cultural identity. Let me mention that the Ministry of Culture supports the amendment. The Ministry of Finance has now not opposed the meetings of the Committee on Finance and Budget. However, the government has not delivered an opinion on this amendment. If the amendment had not been adopted, most Slovenian municipalities could not contribute to the restoration of cultural and historical monuments.The programme for the restoration of cultural monuments in the country, which was previously adopted by the adoption of the 2001 budget, would have been completely compromised. Finally, let me stress that the adoption of this amendment will have no financial implications, as the maximum amount of funds that the State budget we have just adopted will be realized for the restoration of cultural monuments in 2001. Now I would like to say a few more things about the law on the protection of cultural heritage. Only in a few cases do I want to illustrate this nonsense. For example, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u436	Wait a minute! I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u437	I'll name only three monuments from all over the country, if you don't mind. Partizan Hospital Franjo would have financed 30% of the country and 70% of the municipalities by this law if this amendment had not been adopted. Idrian [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List, 10% would be financed by the state and 90% by the municipality. [[...]] Stanjel would finance 30% of the countries and 70% of the municipalities. The Kavčnik household in Zavodnje nad Šostanje would be financed by the state and 60 local communities, while the Jewish synagogue in Maribor, which is also a monument of national importance, would be financed by the state and 20% by the state and 80% by the municipality. And even in Prekmurje you could list a whole bunch of monuments, so I think you can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u438	Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u439	Thank you very much. I am interested in Article 33, the first and second amendments, which are exactly the same, except of course the one investor is the committee and the other is Mr Slavko Gaber. They're identical to the comma and to the dot. I ask for the meaning of this, given the provision "if one is accepted, the vote on the other is irrelevant". I want to know what someone's trying to achieve, I don't know, their mother's body or Dr. Gaber's if they're identical. I don't understand that, so I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u440	First my friend Gaber, then my friend Pucka. First, my friend Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u441	Mr President, they are not the same, but I am happy to withdraw my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u442	Thank you very much. Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u443	With the withdrawal of the amendment, there's no mention of identity.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u444	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u445	Thank you very much for a very clear explanation. But I don't know, making fun of people at 1:00 in the morning, but it's not good. I think we have the right to ask because I've read it three times, and three times, according to the definition of 70%, 30%, in 2003, in 2000, and primary school, is identical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u446	I'm a colleague of Gaber's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u447	Mr President, the hour is late and my colleague Barovic has run out of breath to read the last sentence of the first supplement. The two complements differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u448	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u449	I missed the last sentence on page 11, and I apologize to Dr. Gabru.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u450	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 33. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 43 were in favour, 1 was against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment under order number 1 was adopted. Dr. Gaber, you've withdrawn the amendment. [[Yeah.]] Then we move on to the amendment under order number three. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the vote. Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask the government's opinion on this amendment to make it easier for me to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u452	We're in the middle of a vote. We can't give a word to the government. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 38 in favour, 8 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment under order number 3 has been voted on. On page 12 of the review we have an amendment under order number 4. We're voting on him. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 41 were in favour, 4 were against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] We are now voting on the text of Article 33. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 37 were in favour, 1 was against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] The text of the Article is fully accepted. We have one amendment to Article 34. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting this amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 5, 39 against the amendment. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are voting on the whole article. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 37 were in favour, 1 was against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] The Article has been adopted. We have one amendment to Article 35. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Forty-four of the 54 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] That is why the amendment was adopted. I now put the text of Article 35 to the vote in full. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. For 38 of them, no one was against it. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The Article shall be adopted in its entirety. The government proposes a new 36.A Article. Is that right? Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that this amendment was tabled a few hours ago and with regard to the comments made by the secretariat on the law on public funds, I ask the secretariat for an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u454	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u455	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. We understand this amendment in essence as a transitional arrangement to redesign the systemic financing of the work of public funds. In view of the solutions that we have already dealt with in relation to this issue in the Law on Public Funds, this is in some way a more precise provision, which, in our view, takes into account the success reports and the financial plans of the Funds, makes it possible to finance in a direction that is obviously being built up in a system law and I think it is quite precise that it can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u456	Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u457	Thank you very much. Mr President, I thank you for this clarification. Since the mother's working body could not meet if it were to meet and if that was the need, it would suggest that we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u458	Thank you very much. At the vote, I propose an amendment for a new 36a. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 42 were in favour, 1 was against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the new Article 36a has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 40. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 36 were for, no one was against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 40 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 36 were for, no one was against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 39 were for, no one was against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 41 for, no one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. I ask for peace in the hall, if not, I'll give you an hour's rest for breakfast. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. The amendment was tabled. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government is proposing an amendment to Article 29 in order to better define which legal entities are involved. The original text of the article reads: "Legal entities which perform independently on the market." Since this is a bit loose, as the secretariat also thought, we corrected the text by saying, "Legal entities that make most of their income on the market." I therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u460	Thank you very much. Any other qualified candidates want to table an amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Who wants to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[Neither do I.]] This is how we are going to debate and decide on the amendment tabled, this is the amendment to the amendment, the Government's amendment to amend article 29. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. 44 of them voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the amendment got the required majority. That's how we ended up voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments undermine mutual compliance? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 46 were for the proposed law, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues at the end of the review on page 25, you have proposals for additional conclusions. I propose that we discuss and decide each one individually. The proposals under points 4, 5, 7 and 9 are amendments to the law and not proposals for conclusions. First of all, I'm putting the proposal under order number one into consideration and acceptance. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the motion for an additional decision under order number 1 to the vote. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 10 for, and 32 for. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing he wasn't accepted. The amendment under order number 2 does not need to be decided because it is the same. Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. Amendments under order number 3, 4 and 5 cannot be voted on because they represent, as mentioned above, amendments to the law. Therefore, we will continue to decide on the proposal for a decision under order number 6. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were nine in favor and 35 in favor. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] The proposal did not get the required majority. We decide on the proposal under order number 8. We cannot decide on the proposal under order number 7 for the above reasons. Who wants to discuss the proposal under order number 8? The government. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u461	Thank you very much. Point 8 is not sufficiently defined. For it is an ongoing bargaining of what is under the current meaning. In the discussions so far, it has proved to be a vague concept. Whether it's a quarterly or a six-year-old. If we are to take this decision, it must be more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u462	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on the decision under order number 8. We're voting. There were 6 for, 35 for, respectively, between 54 Members present and Members present. The vote was 6.) [[Against 35.]] The proposal did not get the required majority. We cannot decide on the proposal under order number 9 for the reasons mentioned above, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal under order number 10. This is also the last proposal. Under order number 10, I'm sorry, I'm calling off the vote. Representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u463	Thank you very much. I do not think that the implementation of the decision under point 10 is possible because it is almost impossible for such a demanding law to be drawn up within one month and to submit it to the national assembly. We have already started working on this law at the Ministry of Finance, but we cannot ensure that it will be completed within one month. I therefore propose that the time limit be extended or that no decision be taken at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u464	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 6 in favor, 39 against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal did not receive the necessary support. Not in the review, but on the bench you have a proposal for a decision submitted by colleague Janez Podobnik, a parliamentary group. Mr. Rokavec would like a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u465	Thank you for your word. The Group proposes this proposal for an additional decision, in particular, in the discussion on the budget, in some ways, the biggest issues arose in the sale of state property. We believe that it is with this year's budget that the country is stepping in to a significantly more intensive sale of assets. In this way, it would make sense that the National Assembly would have a significantly more important supervisory role in the control and monitoring of the sale of State property, particularly in the case of specific cases. I believe that by setting up such a commission in some way, we would in fact eliminate significantly more possible doubts about possible abuses and damage to state property. Indeed, it is true that this work circle is also covered by the Committee on the Economy. However, the question is whether, within the framework of the Committee on the Economy, which has an essential wider area of work and coverage in this mandate, it will be possible to monitor this issue in such a thorough manner. We must be aware that in the previous mandate for the privatisation of state property, as well as the property transformation of enterprises, the ownership of social property was not taken care of by the special commission. We therefore believe that it would be appropriate for the State Assembly to set up this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u466	Anyone else want a word? A friend of Fari Horvat, then a colleague of Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u467	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I agree with what is said in the explanatory statement, and as also said by my colleague Rokavec, that parliamentary supervision of this area should also be ensured. However, the question is, or almost certain, that such a proposal, such a dictatorship, such as the creation of a special monitoring commission, is not the best solution, or that such a decision is overturned now and would be more so as to examine how to ensure the control we want, as explained in the explanatory memorandum. The argument cannot be that there is no specific law on privatisation and the sale of state property.If matters are not properly regulated, such as the provisions of the law that we have just adopted, then the Commission or anyone cannot work effectively on supervision. Secondly, I think it would be more appropriate for this task to be carried out by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance in the National Assembly. That's what another argument is about. Under the new law, the Court of Auditors also has this task of overseeing what happens to state property. Following the analogy, it would then be appropriate for the Commission to take over the possible task of budgetary control and control of public finances. I would therefore suggest that the proposer turn this proposal into a dictatorship to examine how to ensure. I agree, however, that it is not the Committee on the Economy which, although belonging to it, would be the area of privatisation, that it would be the one dealing with the control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u468	Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In one piece, I agree with what my colleague Fari Horvat said. I would add the following: All of us here have experience from the work of the Property Change Supervisory Commission, which has worked in the framework of the National Assembly for two term periods. At least until now, or even then, I didn't know the results of this commission's work, I'm sorry. At the same time, I would say that even within the government's previous composition, if I recall correctly, the Commission with a similar title, which also, apart from the quivering of feathers, did not produce any results because it was a pure political entity, like some fear of everything that was going on in this country, and it was not intended to do so directly or indirectly for those who did not participate in certain privatisations. I therefore absolutely agree with what my colleague Ferri Horvat has said today that there is no conditions for us to establish a new body in the capacity of the supervisory commission. In one part these things can be carried out by a commission led by Dr. Bayuk. In the second part, or in the case of the establishment of working bodies, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as well as the two as parent labour bodies, must process and, in essence, monitor the adoption of legislation in the field of the privatisation of banks and insurance or the privatisation of other state assets. If it is for someone else to have a function, perhaps this is the only reason to justify the establishment of this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u470	We will go first, colleague Janez Podobnik, then colleague Rokavec and minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u471	Thank you very much. My friend Rokavec somehow gave me the opportunity to answer for a moment. We're taking the initiative of our colleague, Ferri Horvat. Our decision would be redrafted in the proposal that the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, at its first regular session, consider the possibility that the National Assembly, by setting up a commission, would also exercise control over the privatisation and sale of state property. I'd like to say no to my colleague Puck's discussion. Our least intention was for anyone in our parliamentary group or from any other group to seek additional financial satisfaction. You know, the thing is, privatisation and the sale of state property is going to be a very serious job. Together, we can see that the issue of control is an important issue. The National Assembly is now somewhere in between, it is unclear whether Dr. Bajuk's Jecommission is entirely competent. I don't think it's complete. That is why it would be good, yes, that is to say, the initiative of colleague Ferri Horvat to study the election commission and then the diction as it continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u472	Does Comrade Rokavec want another word? [[No, no, ……]] Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u473	If I may, I would say that I agree with Mr Ferri Horvat's proposal, as well as Mr Podobnik. I think it makes sense, however, to examine this problem, especially because it is doubtful that the privatisation of state property will be something that will be the subject of the attention of the National Assembly. I am not making any illusions that these discussions will not take place in the National Assembly. What seems particularly meaningful to me in this study is that we would all consider, together, how to exercise such control. In fact, it does not matter whether this control will be such that at any time someone can intervene for political reasons and prevent privatisation, or whether we have the opportunity to agree that when privatisation takes place, it is a duty, I don't know, for the government to inform the Parliament or the committee responsible, whoever it is, of how the proceedings have been conducted and to take full responsibility for it. It makes sense for us to lay down these rules. If we don't set these rules and we don't study it, I assure you that some commission will declare itself competent and call us any minute. In the meantime, when we negotiate with some buyer, they'll call us and make us out of this cow. Perhaps this is a real opportunity for us to set the rules together on the Commission and that we have some normal procedure, which guarantees what Mr Rokavec said, in the end, the transparency of the procedures. Not meddling politics in procedures, but professional procedure. In this context, and in particular because of these arguments, I support this study and that it is also appropriate. Not only is a commission set up, but rules are laid down as to how the commission goes. That would make sense to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u474	Thank you very much. Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u475	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would say that the question of setting up this commission is exclusively within the competence of the Members of the National Assembly. Therefore, what the honourable Minister has said may be the subject of some discussion. However, I do not think that it can be decisive in the decision of the national assembly, especially because, at the same time, he, in fact, has already responded to this, in every sale, both in the beginning and in the end, to ask a political question whether the sale was the best, in all respects. From the beginning, from the valuation, from the search for buyers to the final conclusion of a contract with one of these. If such a working body were to be established, this working body would normally adopt certain conclusions after this was adopted, all those members who would not agree, because it would be political differences, call press conferences and talk about how this or that sale was not best handled. That is why I think that this pure politicisation is yet another responsible part of the government in that segment of privatisation of state property, which is essentially the only one left to resell. For this reason, I reiterate that there is no reason to politicise professional issues. If, at some point, this working body were involved or monitored by some distance of sale of a particular national property and it did not agree with the evaluation carried out by the expert body, the audit company would then require, I do not know whose costs, to re-audit. And if I didn't agree to that then, another audit. I think that this is a typical contradiction to what the government wants or is based on the budget that we have just adopted on the sale of this and this share of state property in this year, so that we can maintain the global budget framework and thus at least the budget deficit in the frameworks that we have adopted. That is why I think that the discussion is absolutely unnecessary and I absolutely oppose the adoption of any decision in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u476	Thank you very much. First of all, colleague Podobnik and Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u477	I would only answer my colleague Cyril Pucko for a moment. That is why it is necessary to examine this proposal and then to have this debate held at the working body, to assess all the options available to the national assembly and then to decide. Today we will only take a decision to study this and at the working body meeting this debate will be held and then a smart decision will be taken. We're not going to accept anything today, we're just going to say that the commission is going to look into it. I don't think we're gonna make any mistakes here if we accept that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u478	Comrade Rokavec, before I give you my word, I ask your colleagues to take their seats. Comrade Bevk, can you please sit in your seat, because we are in the middle of a debate. Comrade Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u479	Thank you for your word. I would only replicate so much in Mr Puck's debate in some way, namely that I think it is very important that the National Assembly is also aware of the procedure, the procedures that have been taken in the sale of state property. Above all, I do not think that this issue of the sale of state property will be so innocent in the future. If we do not in some way form such a commission, we will be able, even because of any political interests in the future, to be faced with the possibility of investigative commissions or anything. Therefore, I think it is significantly better that, in some way, by setting up a commission, which in some way would be aware of transparency in the sale of state property, they make a normal transition during this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u480	Thank you very much. Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u481	Thank you very much. I'll be done. Just a sentence. If the reason for setting up such a working body is the fear of establishing investigative committees, that is exactly what I have been talking about in these last two shows. Thank you. So there's no need.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-20-SDZ3-Izredna-06.ana.u482	I suggest we conclude this discussion and decide. We will decide on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: [[I'm asking for peace in the hall!]] The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs at its first regular session examine the possibility of establishing a commission to control the privatisation and sale of state property. Does the applicant agree with this correction? We are voting on this. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. It was 17, 16 against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 16.]] I find that the proposal has received the required majority. So we've exhausted all the agenda points. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I hereby conclude the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish everyone a pleasant weekend.
