ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	We will continue our sixth session of the National Assembly. We will continue to decide on the amendments to the library law. Then we will proceed with the 13th item of the agenda and on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the beginning of this working week in the National Assembly, I also welcome you very much. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting with their next colleague. Bogomir Vnučec, Andrej Gerenčer, Franz Pukšič, Andrej Vizjak, Franc Čebulj, Bogdan Barovič, Villa Trofenik for the beginning of the session, Janez Kramberger, Leopold Grošelj, Majda Potrate and Yuri Malovrov between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. and colleague Milan Kopushar. Please, let's find out. [[...]] Comrade Gerencher is present, so his apology is not necessary. Please, everyone, by inserting the cards into the voting devices, allow the presence to be determined. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 50 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much among us. Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the suspended 12th item - the proposal for a law on librarianism. After that, we will move on to the remaining points in order. So we're moving on to treatment aborted 12. Agenda items - Draft Law on Librarianism. The debate on amendments for new paragraphs 16a and 16b was concluded. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has requested a recess for consultation. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Therefore, we can move on to a decision on the amendment for new paragraphs 16a and 16b. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment tabled by the LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, SLS + SKD of the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. This amendment, which you have received in the annex to the review, is put to the vote. There are 54 Members and Members present. 35 votes in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against six.]] You have also received an amendment signed by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia for a new article 16.a. Anybody want a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I ask for peace in the hall during the vote. There are 56 Members and Members present. 13 votes in favour, 23 against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. Finally, with article 16, we have the amendment tabled by the Group of Members with the first signed colleague Zalokar Orazem. I'm putting him to the vote. There were 56 Members and Members present, 32 votes in favour, 14 against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The amendment got the required majority. We have three amendments tabled by Article 17. I'm asking my colleagues if they want a word. Excuse me? Before I give you my word, Comrade Rokavec, I will ask you all for needed peace. Almost there, buddy Rokavec. My friend Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We are discussing the second amendment of Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. In fact, I think it would make sense for the National Assembly to support this amendment. With the support of this amendment, they would in some way allow libraries to be organised as part of legal entities engaged in cultural activities. In fact, I am sure that with the current basic text we are too uniform in some way, what the form of the activities of libraries should be. In fact, many municipalities are also very successful within the organisation of other cultural organisations as persons of public law. Therefore, I think that, even as this is a second reading and in some ways giving the opportunity to re-examine this issue before the third reading, it would be reasonable to support the second amendment, thereby making it possible to organise libraries as well as, in some ways, the best environment in individual municipalities, rationally organises the operation of libraries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Anyone else want to explain their position? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 17. We will first vote on the amendment proposed by colleague Tanko. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There are 57 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 15 for, 28 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We will vote on the amendment of colleague Maria Ana Tisovic. May I remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendments were voted 19 and 29 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] Procedural? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You have predicted that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 will be irrelevant. I find that this is not true, so I propose that we vote again on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Just a moment, Comrade Sok. We need a few seconds of advice. Please. Comrade Petan, would you like a word on this matter? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, I mean even the opposite, not to rule out, but even complement each other and it's worth supporting both. But under point 3, which speaks only of that final phase, this is what is said about financial management, and the first one also describes a little bit more in detail how we can get to this financial business. That is why I propose that we both support it, because then the third amendment will make even more sense. That is why I propose that we both support and thus give weight to the hereto, which, of course, is a government, which certainly has a majority. But you have to admit that he's complementing and giving weight to the third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	The objection has been accepted by both parties and we will then vote on the third amendment - at least that's what I was advised to do. I propose that we vote on the amendment of the Group of Members, therefore, the first-signatory is colleague Majnikova. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. 58 colleagues and colleagues were present, 45 were in favour, one was against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on the text of Article 17 in its entirety. Contract Center [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	One more time, if you'll excuse me. Given your finding that the amendments are in conflict, I suggest we vote once again on the amendment under number two. Because what you have said is that, as long as the second amendment is adopted, the third amendment is irrelevant, this is not true, and probably for that reason also a certain part of the Members objected to this amendment under number two. It would make sense, as Mr Rokavec discussed, that this amendment, under number two, would be supported and actually ensure that the library activity can be carried out within a different organisational unit as regards smaller municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	I followed the note prepared by the professional service. You are right, the objection is substantively acceptable, unless, of course, it is opposed by one of the other Members and Members. It would be right, therefore, to rule again on the amendment under order number two. That's your suggestion, Comrade Sok. Does anyone object to this decision? [[No, no, ……]] Then the National Assembly will re-decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting on him. Among the 58 present were 22 for, 24 vs. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 24.]] This time no majority was provided for the adoption of the amendment. So the remaining two votes remain in force. Can we move to a full vote on the text of Article 17? Yes, you can. I shall put the text of Article 17 to the vote in full. There are 57 Members and Members present. 38 were in favour and 9 against, so we adopted the text of Article 17. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] One amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was tabled by Article 18. Any of them want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 18. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 40 for him, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on Article 18 as a whole. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. 38 were in favour, 2 were against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The Article has been adopted. We have three amendments tabled by Article 19. Anybody want a word about them? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. Here, too, I received a note that if the amendment was adopted under order number 1 the amendment under order number 2 and 3 would become irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. There are 58 Members and Members present. 20 for, 25 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendments under order number 2 were voted against by 38, 2 of them. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Finally, we are voting on the amendment under order number 3. There are 59 Members and Members present. For the amendment under order number 3, 39, 2 were against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the full text of the article. We're voting! There were 59 colleagues and colleagues present. 39 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the articles is fully adopted. Three amendments have been tabled for the 20th Article. The third is, if I'm correctly informed, withdrawn. A friend of Cimperman's. First, I'm asking if anyone wants a word! We are voting on the amendment under order number one. If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under number 2 shall be immaterial. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 23 votes in favour, 16 against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. So the second one becomes irrelevant and the third one is withdrawn. Thus, we can now vote on the text of Article 20 in its entirety. We are voting on the text of Article 20 as a whole. Excuse me? I'm calling off the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Please, if you can repeat it because I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Good. Only procedural proposals are possible during the vote. That was the nature of it. It proposes a re-voting. I ask that we first find agreement that the vote should be repeated. It was broken. To the previous article. We vote that we will vote again. 34 of them were in, 7 against. [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me? You want to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	To repeat the vote to the first amendment of Article 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	You propose a re-voting of the amendment under order number 1 to Article 20. We will vote on this again. On the amendment under order number 1 to Article 20. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 20. 62 Members and Members are present. 23 were in favour and 27 were against [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. Therefore, we will now decide on the amendment under order number two. I'd like to have your attention in the hall. If necessary, we will vote slower. I'd like to ask for your attention and peace. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 62 Members and Members were present, and 42 and 8 were against them. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment got the required majority. The third amendment has been withdrawn. We will vote on the text as a whole. 62 colleagues and colleagues were present, 33 were in favour and 9 were in favour. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The text received the necessary support. Four amendments have been tabled to Article 23. I ask Members and Members whether they want a word. My friend Mogo!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	President, thank you so much for your word. I think this note under the amendment number that if an amendment under number one has been adopted, the amendment under number two is irrelevant that it does not hold. [[...]] Even if we accept the first, we can accept the second, because the second changes the first. So there wouldn't be anyone wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Yeah. That's what I was going to say in the vote, you're right. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mrs. Possonec? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The use of language is a right and not an option. Mr Robert's amendment to Article 23 is therefore necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment under order number one to article 23. We're voting! 59 Members and Members were present, 41 were in favour and 1 were in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment received support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 59 Members and Members present, 30 of whom were in favour, 7 against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment received the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number three. We're voting. They voted 43.1 against between the 60 Members present and the Members. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number four. Colleague of Pozson's withdrawal of the amendment. So we're not going to make a decision about the amendment. Therefore, we can now move on to a full decision on the text of the article. We vote on the full text of the article. There are 60 colleagues and colleagues present. They voted in favour of the text 46, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text has been adopted. One amendment has been tabled for Article 24. Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll make a decision about him. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 24. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. In favour of the 40th vote, no one opposed the amendment, so it was adopted. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the text of Article 24 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one objected. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 25. Does the proposer or someone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please, colleague of Pozsonchev, behind her, colleague of the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In accordance with Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which deals with the rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia and provides that they shall establish organisations for the preservation of their national identity, develop economic, cultural and scientific research activities and activities in the field of public information and publishing, and Article 15 of the Law on the Self-Governmental National Community, which provides that the self-government national communities shall make proposals, initiatives, opinions on all matters under their jurisdiction, to give to the National Assembly, the Government and other national authorities, an amendment to Article 25 of the Law on Librarianism. The purpose of the amendment is to resolve the situation in an area where the central and academic and provincial library is not in bilingual territory. Such an area is Pomurje. The fact is that the provincial library of study in Murska Sobota, this library is in the bilingual area. This amendment would allow the Ministry of Culture, or the Ministry of Culture, of public general libraries in bilingual areas to provide that the tasks referred to in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Library Act relating to representatives of national minorities are transferred to the implementation of one of the general libraries located in that area. Therefore, the amendment does not break the system laid down in the bill. It is only that matters relating exclusively to nationality are transferred to one of the libraries in the bilingual area. Since I believe that national rights are valid for as long as they can be realized, the adoption of this amendment would help to realize a fraction of this in order to put a stop to the well-declared rights of the national communities. I know that you tend to favor national rights, so I don't think I can be concerned about the fate of the amendment. But it will also be enough if you only vote by the letter of the law and then support this amendment. Because the national mixed area is certainly not in the Murska Sobota, for the right to take care of our own development and survival is certainly a national right. I would also like to say that this solution is not contrary to the interests of the people of Goriček. If you remember February, when we first discussed this, I said this - I have a magnetogram: "With these solutions we are pleased, but I warn you that the envisaged central district library is not in the national mixed area, so it is not where nationality lives, and it is not where the law on national public libraries applies. Therefore, the desire and need of our community to keep the organisation of work as it has been so far. If Hungarians on Goričkem, i.e. members of the nationalities living on Goričkem, want the book bus to supply books from Murska Sobota, let them. However, I stress that the tasks of the Central Regional Library - once again I stress - should be carried out by a public library in a bi-linguistic area." So I don't think there's a big demand, there's no danger from this amendment, there's no bomb here, and I hope you can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	I didn't mean to disturb you during the debate, colleague Pozsonchev, but I would ask my colleagues and colleagues not to disturb the speakers. The word is from a colleague of the school. Can you turn it off? Thank you very much. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that this is a very important provision, which I hope, in fact, that - if we are talking about an amendment - is based on a misunderstanding of the concept of the central regional library and that it is not, I will say about some other things that could also be discussed in connection with the discussion that some of you will remember about how to address the cultural heritage in Prekmurje to refer to this. A colleague of Possončeva pleads that the National Assembly fully respects the rights enjoyed by the Nationality Community and is based on Article 64 of the Constitution. I fully agree with it, and regardless of the fact that we have actually started a war in this point of the amendment, which is for me, I will say, absolutely principled in nature, but I will have to admit that since the application of this article of the Constitution and of all, I will say that the individual solutions related to the national problems in Prekmur, including some which may have been understood as capricious, have never been difficult for me to support the request of my colleague Possonč or the nationalities community. In this case, I would like to warn you that you would make a big mistake. The rights of the national community associated with the enforcement of these services, which are referred to by law, are defined very precisely in - allow me to look back - in Article 23. It also discusses the consensus that the national community must give for this special programme. While these central libraries are essentially, including the University of Maribor and Slovenian NUK, the backbone of the system. And it is not possible to empower the Ministry to transfer part of these tasks to another library, because this other library is simply not at this point in time and does not have the appropriate infrastructure and does not have the necessary material. Colleague Pozsoncheva said it was a transfer of this second indent, "to offer professional assistance to all libraries in their area". What would that mean? That this professional assistance offered by the central library in Murski Sobota is a central library, not only for Prekmurje, but for Pomurje to transfer in certain things to the library in Lendava. Her argument is that she's not lying in a national-mixed area. This, of course, holds true on the map, but it does not last as long as a good portion of the Hungarian-born educated still resides in Murska Sobota. This would not be a specific argument if this central library in Murska Sobota, with the establishment and co-establishment, were not to cover the three municipalities which are in the national mixed area. So would this mean that for Moravian spas, Hodosh and I do not know which is the third, the Shalovans, to perform these tasks for them from the library of Lendava? Probably not, since in these three congregations you are the council of the congregation, the mayors and representatives of the nationalities who are there do not particularly want this. "Ergo" would still remain in the area of national rights in the area of the former Murskosoba municipality in the Parochial Library and in Lendava in Lendava, with the question of what Dobrovnik will do in all these peripetions, but this decision alone is not very important. What this article says speaks of those tasks performed by the central libraries. And they have nothing to do with the exercise of the rights of the national community, so I am surprised that the ministry and the government have agreed to this amendment, which means that someone who at some point agreed to this could have acted well, but by the way, they have undermined what has been built through the torture, I will not say, the enforcement of this bill, but throughout all 50 years of the development of librarianism in Slovenia. So I'm surprised by the ease with which these sentimental discussions are agreed upon, which are linked to the divisive congregations, which I hope were not created according to national criteria, but to the real needs of all the people who live there mixedly. Therefore, it seems to me that I would have been forced by this provision to force some library and actually try to transfer to the Ministry the fact that there is a discussion with someone and in the end it would have turned out that, in fact, these additional tasks and contracts, followed by Article 25, would not have been possible to conclude in that area with anyone other than the House Library. There is, of course, another argument that seems important at this point, but I don't know how much he doesn't speak. You know that it is very difficult for congregations to agree on any investment together. In the case of the House Library, this is one of the rare situations in Slovenia, when a large number of Pomeranian municipalities decided to support the development of librarianism also by investing in the new building in the House Library. And he's investing for a simple reason, because he's taking a room library like, I'm gonna say some matrix around which this library loan system is developed, from Ljutomer, and if you want, to Hodosh. They're willing to pay for that. You will find it difficult to find many such cases in Slovenian situations. There is another argument that this should not be done. The House Library has a rich Hungaristics. The number of books would show that there may be the same number in the library of Lendava, let's leave one up or down. But the structure of the library, if we weigh the importance, speaks absolutely in favour of the House Library. Of course, a chamber library of some kind, I'll say, when we talk about hungarianism, it's of national importance. Because there is most of this material that we have gathered in Slovenia. Hugaristics from this point of view are not - and I hope that this is, I will say, the theme of every national policy, at least as I have advocated it - not something that is intended only for Hungarian-speaking citizens or users of the library system, but for all those interested in this culture. In a way, I will say this, despite all in one part of our common culture, because at least one edge of Slovenia was created in this way. Therefore, it seems to me that what Mrs Possonchev says can be implemented differently, through mechanisms that are already available to minority legislation, either to increase or to increase the means of redemption or to make this activity more effective in the municipality of Lenda. However, it is not possible to do so by taking something away from a person’s marriage and by giving it to someone else. The Public Institute of the House Library, I assume, will not let this fund be alienated. Perhaps this will be the basis for the Ministry not to grant them some resources for additional employees. But it is impossible to have, I will say, a particular term of the central library for the Hungarian Nationality Community, because this term is not available, and you will also see if you are interested in how this is done in an area where the Italian community lives, that this is different and that there are social libraries that, I will say, provide these specific needs. At the same time, the central libraries provide the same thing as what I'm talking about here. So I would ask you to be rational in this decision-making and that you are not sentimental, because this leads, I will say, to the discussions that lead to a lot of other things. It is not sentimental, but it is an extremely rational decision, which I will say in its entirety, guarantees the rights of the national community and at the same time maintains this single library-information system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Two replicas, first a colleague of Pozsonec, behind her a colleague of Moge. First, my colleague, Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I don't know, then let's write national rights nicely on the banner, let's keep it that way, unless so much trusts the national assembly to us that poor - so at least, which may not be organised by a different library there, but by a decision of the minister transfer some tasks. I could read a few passages from the National Community Act: "In accordance with the law, they perform tasks under national jurisdiction." So the national communities can also perform tasks under national jurisdiction, but you can't give a task from the library. [[...]] [[It's not understandable. It's a microphone.]] I'm with all my strengths for the study library in Murski Sobota, no one said there wouldn't be a study library there. [[...]] I was there when they laid the foundation stone, etc. But that's the second one, the study library will certainly stay on Murski Sobota, no one will take her away. What we have said is that we would have a more active role in organising librarianism in bilingual areas, part of those tasks relating to nationality. The model library in Murska Sobota has a 1992 decree, they were unable to agree with the new congregations, and there is not a single word in this decree about bilingualism. So it's not true that this library is bilingual in Murski Sobota. That's not true. And also, really tell me why the rights are on paper if we can't do this in practice. And such a terrible opposition as I don't know, as if there was a bomb in this amendment. Absolutely no one is tearing apart this modelly decorated library in Murska Sobota, the only part of what is national culture, is what we wanted in the national field. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Could you turn it off, colleague of Pozsonchev? Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I will, of course, defend this opinion of the committee, which has supported this amendment. Look, fellows, the protection of nationality is one of the great nations. And we were always proud of that. And I must say that the government and the ministry and the Members, as far as article 23 is concerned, talking about general libraries in national mixed areas, that we have been more than broad-minded, we have even supported the two amendments on communication, both governmental and co-worker Battelli. If you are looking at the law then I do not agree with this, with my colleague Školč, in the 25th article, which speaks of the central libraries, the city library in general, the central and national libraries, but there is not one word, one sentence about the minority or the national community, when they come to this library as their central library looking for certain requirements. In the national library, it is very detailed in the first indent, however, what rights such a minority has or what is, whereas in the 25th Article a minority in its specific tasks in the mixed area is therefore not defined anywhere. And for that we should find a solution here because it's another treatment. I think it's wise, colleague Marika, to hold part of the School's debate. And he cannot automatically transfer the state from the central district library in Murska Sobota all the powers that are in the four indents as special tasks, which is there, whereas that general part in the first part is not in the first paragraph. It would have been better if I had advised you, but you did not want to listen to the amendment in such a way that if the relevant regional library was not located in the national mixed area, but only one library in the Republic of Slovenia, the minister responsible for culture could have determined that part of the tasks referred to in Article 25 should be transferred here. And such a thing would then be a bill of lading, so that a minority could be respected and reasonably transferred part of these powers also in an article defining the central district library for this area. The dictatorship, such as it is, is now so hard and one and another people feel threatened by their existence or the rational functioning of such a library.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. First colleague Juban, after him colleague Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is probably necessary to add to the continuation of what colleague Školč informed this respected assembly. Based on the organization of libraries in Slovenia, a programme for the provincial and study library in Murska Sobota was developed in the past. On the basis of this program is a project of building a library in Murska Sobota, which also included the field of hungaristics. This programme has been verified by the State and has also developed a financing structure for the construction of this library. This library building is almost behind us and the building is physically standing. 50% of the project financed by the state weighs more than a billion, 25% of the municipality of Murska Sobota and the rest of the municipality. But for the entire program, including hungaristics. Let someone answer me today, and the government's opinion here is important how it will respond to this fact that can happen here, as long as we exclude areas for the needs of Hungarian nationality from the project programme and the building that is already standing. Technically, this may even be possible in today’s technology, but it is a story that can only be a fantasy. In fact, one part of this facility is emptied. The question of the financing structure and the obligations of the municipalities that have signed this financing contract to the project that is collapsing. I have before me a letter from the Gorski municipalities saying that the need to cover Hungarian nationality should remain in the provincial and study library in Murska Sobota. The situation becomes complicated to the point, because not only is the obligation to complete the building and the content of the building in Murska Sobota, where it will run out, I do not know how much, 100 or 200 million, this program is also questionable in this facility. It is likely that then, of course, the country will also have to resolve funding at another location, which, of course, is not my problem at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My colleague Majnik. Let me ask you something. Comrade Majnik, did you have a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to my colleague Possons for the replica. That means a five-minute limit. And so are you, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	I would only ask Mr Juban so much if they needed us to fill that building with us and not to miss the 200 million. It's already been voted out, it already is, and so on, you've got it because the study library stays in Murski Sobota. I don't think that being a national can make it easy for a city to achieve anything. Mr. Skull, yes, the replica is also that educated people live in the Murski Sobota. The indigenous people live in bilingual areas and we are as we are, but that is why we need the library to become educated, Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Could you turn it off, colleague Pozsonec? Comrade Partich, you wanted a replica? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Mrs. Possonchev, I'm turning to you. You will surely confirm that, for the first time in this Nationality Commission, I have always voted as you thought it was right. I used to have problems with this, not only with Anderlich, but also with many other colleagues in the mission group. Now I'd be doing exactly the same thing if I were sure. Maybe you've answered something and I'll make up my mind. At the same time, I promised you, Mr Secretary will confirm that this article might not have passed. Even days ago, when you weren't here, I tried not to put this thing on the agenda without you. Nevertheless, of course, it seems to me that my colleague, School, is right to warn us before some sentimental, emotional approach. I tell you that a lot of people in this National Assembly vote because it looks like you're going to die from an accident if they don't support you. Because you're always so emotionally torn up, and that might bring me here today so I don't want to see you in tears. But that's not the only way we can make decisions. I'll try to tell you my concerns. The first thought I want to hear is whether or not you really -- I don't like it, Mrs Maria, because I'm on this committee to say that the rights of nationality are only on paper and we don't create them. This right is not yet on paper and other rights, I think the state of Slovenia has relatively good performance. The rights of Hungarian nationality are not just on paper. I'd be the first to be bitter if that were the case. Second thing I want to say. Indeed, the question is whether they represent themselves in this case - you say, not to play with nationality - or do you really represent the interests of the entire Hungarian nationality. You know that on the committee we happen to have a man from Moravian spas claim that when we support them, we should not think that we have even supported the national community, but we are just a Lendava center. Because it's a big conflict. You must confirm to me that this is the interest of all Hungarians who are there. I'll vote a lot easier for your cause. That's the other thing. Look, I think librarianism at the end of Lenda, as far as I've seen it, is very good. I myself had several literary performances in the general library, which is quality, not to mention the library at the school, which is one of the best in Slovenia, has 36,000 copies of books, 24,000 Slovenian and 12,000 Hungarian. So it seems to me that the right of a Hungarian man to access the Hungarian book is certainly at least the same as a Slovenian man, let's say in one less urban environment, that a Slovenian book can be reached. I'll put my hand in the fire so that a member of Hungarian nationality can get to the book. We need to do more here, and I suggest that the library is further strengthened and so on. Look what's bothering me about this transmission, Mrs. Marika. Prekmurje was once Hungarian or Hungarian. Not long ago, he was back in Hungary. Do we want to erase all traces of this being a common history? I myself took 100 books to Muenchen to the Slovenian, international, international library, opened a department because I believe that there is a part of Slovenia, where there is also a Slovenian book. Will the Murski Soboti now take the Hungarian books and carry them to a block where the Hungarians live? Does it not matter that the Hungarian part of the library is in an area that is historical and where Hungarians will also go? So when you answer these questions, or I didn't say I decided to vote, but emotionally and say that we're cutting down on some rights that are not really there, I don't think it's worth it. It's better to have an excellent institution. You don't have to have it under your nose. We Slovenians have most of our literary wealth, historical wealth, from the Copernicus, not to say where we found Trubar and the Brisin Monuments, we have them around the world, let's go there, study there, it's not necessary for you to transfer them all to that block of border Hungarian municipalities to the Hungarian border. That's not gonna work out. Maybe it's better that there's as many Hungarian books as possible in Murski Sobota, that's my point of view. As far as possible, there are as many Slovenian books in Celovac as possible, not in a globe or in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Please don't disturb the speakers. We're at the amendment to Article 25. Does colleague Majnik have a word for her and replica? [[...]] Colleague Majnik, you don't have a replica. Then you must wait after the rules of procedure for the expiry of the replicas. Colleague Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych! I'm not going to die, nor will I cry because this is not proper for a Member of Parliament. Don't worry. Nobody thought to take any books anywhere. That's all I wanted with this amendment that a library in bilingual territory gets a function that organizes library life in bilingual areas. Nothing else. Absolutely nothing else. What you mixed up - I don't know. And why you did that - I don't know that either. I believe that this small request is so justified that it cannot be more justified. What if I represent the interests of all Hungarians? Yes, I represent. I got almost 100 percent votes in Gorički, so I would never work against them that much. I read what I said in the first debate. I hope you're listening. And that's what I'm saying. I don't sell that for "containers."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	If I understand correctly, now your hands are raised as a call to replicas, not as an application to replicas. Will you wait, colleague Majnik? No, you'll talk. I think it's also possible that colleague Majnik's phone calls, and then it's in the order you signed up for the replica. My colleague Majnikov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. In explanation, first of all, I have been the director of the general educational library for 17 years, which is renamed the central district library by this law. That's why I probably don't need to be convinced anymore that I know the expertise and organization of libraries. The amendment of Ms Marika Pozsonec is about organising central libraries and not fulfilling minority rights. Since these rights of the Hungarian minority have been exercised before and are being implemented now and will also be implemented in advance. Each library in Slovenia has the responsibility to organise a network in its field and to help all libraries that are part of its interference. The library of Lendava as well as the library of the House. And if we just looked legally formal. The Central Library, the provincial library Murska Sobota, is already active in the national mixed area, because the three municipalities mentioned already by colleague Školč are ethnically mixed and co-founder of the House Library. I would not repeat that there is more Hungarian material in the room library, that it has a trained staff, that it is 22 percent of the employees of the hungarians. To prepare and build a new library in which a strong department of hungarianism will be located, it is said that the Hungarian minority has been provided with a harvest of the present provincial and study library. But if we're talking about feelings, let me have a little comment. My maiden name is Gänc and my father is Hungary and I am Hungary, so believe me, when I reject this amendment, I am only talking about profession and not emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. All right, let's go, In front of you, a colleague of the Pozsonec, in a row, just like they signed up for. First, colleague Partljič, behind him colleague Bevk, behind him colleague Gasparini and before the performance by colleague Ašić, also your replica. Please, Comrade Partich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	I apologize, Mrs Pozsonchev, if this is my comment on emotion, I think, I feel like I'm degrading it. I think you're so personal with the thing. I'd rather count that as a plus than a no. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to offend you. That's another question. For what purpose I'm doing this now. Absolutely with no purpose at all. In order to develop the Hungarian National Community in Slovenia as appropriate. With this purpose, Mrs. Marika. If it is true that the district library does not carry out this task, that your network is well organized, it should be put on the agenda, it should be discussed if it does not perform its tasks. I agree. But I see no reason to take this motherhood, but to take it somewhere else, because I am simply convinced that this does not depend on the state of libraryism during Hungarian nationality. Until now, I've never heard of you being deprived of anything in the field of librarianism because you don't have it. From here, my impression that for some reason you want to show what you do for them, and group everyone in one place. Because of me, it may seem here that the Hungarian national community is united, well connected, it is not my thing, and I take it back, although of course I have completely different experiences.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	All right, buddy Partlych. Next up, colleague Bevk, behind him colleague Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I will also, for principle reasons, support the amendment of colleague Pozsoncheva. The rights of indigenous national minorities are certainly a constitutional category. However, since I am a member of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world and when visiting in place, I am listening, both in Italy, Austria and Hungary, to what everything at the country, provincial or state level is trying to make the activity and development of the Slovenian national community more difficult, and thus to speed up the process of assimilation, I would not like us to do the same in Slovenia. In addition, by adopting this amendment in the second instance, they would allow the article to be opened in the third reading and thus may attempt to find an optimum solution in the final reading of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Comrade Gasparini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Well, it won't be a real replica, but it will complement, especially Mr. Školč, who mentioned how we have this resolved in Primorsk. I mean, there's a way to get rid of it, like Mr Bevk has now shown. Look. We have these national communities, the Italian National Community in Isola Piran and Koper, which each have their own [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] But the central library is in Cyprus. [[...]] That's what it says. As a member of the Italian minority, I'll go to Isola, borrow a book and go home. But if I want something more extra, I'll go to the central library. This is the way it is solved down in Primorsk and we are satisfied. I don't think there's any problem. I even think that next to Croatia, it's part of the Kori congregation that they have it there. That's all there is to it. I find the same as Mr Partljič, with whom we are on this committee, that there is always a difference between members of the Hungarian community and Italian. So, the problem is solved, like in education, kindergartens, they're otherwise solved in Prekmurje than in Primorska. I don't like it. To be honest, I would like it to be the same for both of us. So, so much for the supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you for that explanation, colleague Gasparini. First of all, she has the word of her colleague Pozsoncheva - she wanted a replica. A colleague of Skolcz signed up for her. For a debate? For the replica. Then my colleague, Ashishch, for the debate. Please, you have the floor first, colleague Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	I believe that we do not have to explain that the situation is different from that of Primorje and with Italian colleagues. Thank God they've got everything in the center. This little thing that we can organize our own library life, I think is the least that a person can ask for and what we can hope for. I'm just listening to what they have on Murski Sobota. The only thing you haven't said is how many readers there are if they have four hungarians, how many readers they have, how many of us get inside when they're 30 kilometers away from the bilingual area. Really. Like, I used to go there when I was doing a seminar assignment. So, a few students or students and 300 people. And for them, for four Hungarians, I think it's a little too much. And we're already there. In Lendava, however, there are 7,000, 8,000 Hungarians who enter each day. 30 km will rarely travel to the central library. But I'm saying, I didn't want any books and we didn't want to take them out of the City Saturday. It's logical for them to stay there. Logically, it's a study library. And the central library has different purposes than the study library. The only thing we get is the sovereign right to organize and take care of our own development. And that's what I want with this answer to Mr. Parlycz. No economy, no one knows what, because I also heard that I wanted to build something there. No, no, no. I don't want to build. And that. You knew very well. Indeed, there was disagreement between the types of Premur Hungarians or among the leaders. Yesterday, we called off the main ones back who were doing this disagreement. I hope that the period will begin when the Hungarian nationality develops harmoniously. And the fact that when I received a letter in 1999, we were already trying to regulate our lives in the field of librarying with the same content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you, colleague of the Possons. Now I have the right to limit the debate and I think we have now exchanged, mainly, arguments for and against. The replica is also reported by colleague Školč and then by colleague Ašič. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it? My friend Gerencher. Anyone else? Then I think we can close this debate and move to a vote on the amendment to Article 25. First, colleague Školč, behind him colleague Ašić and colleague Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	Of course, as a key wish, or as a request, what Mrs Possonce is talking about and is linked to the subjectivity that the national community has, it is said by this right to decide certain things on its own. But what I would like to say and what I may not have been clear about before - this law guarantees this subjectivity to the national community. Let me read that for you. Article 23 states: "The General Libraries shall draw up a programme of activities from the preceding paragraph in agreement with representatives of the national communities." Article 23 itself speaks of the fact that general libraries in national mixed areas also guarantee these rights and interests of members of the national community. From this point of view, I will say, this requirement, which sounds most logical here, is that members of the national community must have this right. From this point of view, of course, it is not entirely out of the vine the tricky question raised by Comrade Partljič whether there was any complaint at the expense of the exercise of the rights of nationality when it came to jurisdiction or territory, if you wish, of the House Library. I don't remember that. Not at the time of the ministry, certainly not at the time of work in the National Assembly. The letters we receive these days also from ethnically mixed areas, from Goričko, speak even the opposite, that they insist that their, I will say, rights under article 23 for them are realized through the House Library. That is why I cannot understand my colleague Bevek, who has one such, I will say, the manner in which all of those things, which are clearly clear, but something else could be said to be left to the third reading. Things are here, I will be perfectly clear, and believe that I know what I am talking about, very precisely, not only because I have been in some service that has been preparing this law for a while, but because, like many people in this Chamber, I am really interested in the rights of the national community and I am also really interested in cultural policy in the Republic of Slovenia. What is Article 25 talking about? He's talking about the extra tasks of these central libraries. Central libraries, if you read, are nothing more than general libraries with increased selection of material, etc. Their specific tasks are not linked, by no means, to the exercise of the rights of the national community, but are four short indents to ensure an increased and more difficult selection of library materials and information for all to provide professional assistance to all libraries in their area - this is connected, I will say, especially with other issues of library development, not so much with this special purchase of this material. If it is precisely the case for the House Library to say - I do not know if it has been said today - that it has excellent links with the library in Sombate and with the National Library in Budapest and that it provides access to key information relevant to the development of Hungarian culture from this point of view. The keys to the information. Then you have the following - coordinate, collect, process and store indigenous material for your area. This may be the subject of a dispute, but once again this means some kind of professional request, and it is my opinion that it must do so for the whole area and there is no awkwardness, if in one part for its area it also does so and directs the isolated library material of its territory. This means that those things that go out then offer to schools, other libraries, etc. I guess when it comes to material in Hungarian to offer it again, I'll tell those libraries, societies and entities that are interested. But we are talking about other tasks that are not the tasks for the area that Mrs Pozsoncheva is talking about. That's why I'm surprised, I'll say, by the silence of the government. I know that the government has had a very different position for a very long time, I don't know what happened in the middle, what kind of arguments have happened, I want to hear them. I'm surprised, I'll say, that Mr Bevek is also being carried away, but he knows the cultural policy for 50 years, and they've all choked to think that it's on Murska Sobota that they are, I'll say, ideally decorated institutions. Now they're gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Time's up. Six colleagues and colleagues have been reported. To the same extent, I ask everyone to make a contribution to the debate, or after one hour of discussion, I believe that the National Assembly can decide. Let me put it in order: colleague Ašič, Gerenčer, Bevk, Potrč and colleague Partljič. First of all, my friend Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I think I will resist in the debate on one segment that we have taken into account between the lines, but otherwise not. Sadly, this is once again one of the laws that is lacking in the basic law on the provinces. I understand the central library as a future regional or a province when we have a province. When we have the provinces, the Slovenian province will certainly be Prekmurje. Then we will be very clear that the province probably needs the provincial library and that Prekmurje will, of course, be a province with a mixed population, with Slovenians and Hungarians, and there will be no more division into how many Hungarian municipalities and how many Slovenian municipalities there are, because this province will be a special feature, as will be the specificity of the province that will be created in the area of Slovenian Istria. These two provinces will be a minority province and with representatives of the majority people. I think this amendment actually works for two provincial libraries - one for the Slovenes and one for Hungary. I think that our arrangement, constitutionally speaking, does not mean that we care for minorities, the majority nation for the minority nation by dividing them, but by trying to care for as much as possible co-existence, co-existence and, of course, consistent development in all segments. From this point of view, I do not think that this is that Mrs Marica, with all due respect, I do not think that the Hungarian Premurs could have a better representative in Parliament who advocates Hungarian interests. But here in this part you have this good behavior to share. Because where we're gonna go if we have a movie for a minority and a movie for the majority and I don't know, let's move on. [[...]] This could be the endless path that revolves around libraries today. I'm going back again, of course, to the provinces. If we had provinces and had provincial institutions, we would know that we would have only one institution in each province, which we will set up for each area. For this reason, of course, I do not think that this amendment is in substance the one that could be supported. And I think that my colleague, Školč, was right that the law is very good in this area as well as in the area of Slovenians in place. Even the tasks of the border municipalities in the border general libraries are charged where they border the area where Slovenians live outside Slovenia. In short, I think he's very well-balanced and that's not going to be good, it really won't be good if the two central libraries take care of collecting domestic material. One way to make it -- I mean, it just doesn't work out. And that will make it very difficult for me to agree and decide to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. A colleague of Gerencher, colleague Bevk, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want us to talk today about the situation of Hungarians in Prekmurje on their behalf, at all, about co-existence with Slovenians, because I think we can be an example of this cooperation in all these years. The result is that we have the best bilingual education in Prekmurje, probably in Europe or elsewhere. The case in Primorska is better regulated. And I think it's also a confession of co-existence between our people. It would be a shame if this library separated us now and we shared in Hungary and Slovenia. We must not do this and take full responsibility for this law, which is in procedure, and let us say what is yet to be filled. Articles 23 and 24 give every opportunity to the library in Lendava to further strengthen it, to obtain additional resources and to provide an even better supply of its services. I must repeat the following in the defence of the House Library: that he has been working with the Sombote and Cut Library in Budapest for 30 years and that he has entered into the agreement between Hungary and Slovenia in cultural cooperation, which is valid until 2003, means that the profession has found that this library works well. I myself have been in a former position many times with the representatives of these libraries, where they spoke very kindly about this cooperation of our library with the library in Hungary. I will be sick if it comes to the air today or to colleagues from Hungary on the ears that something is going on in Slovenia and that we are looking for some conflicts. Far from it. There's no dispute. I think we can do a lot of things in the context of what we accept. There's one more thing I'd like to point out that wasn't pointed out today. On Saturday, the Higher School Centre for Economics is formed. How important it is that we have a strong study library for members, namely Slovenians and Hungarians living in Pomure. If we lose this, the library will be a simple library because the country of two libraries in Slovenia will not have one, that is certainly not the case, then the question is also what will be the offer for our students who are studying in Murski Sobota. And to conclude. Let us not let any divisions arise in this sense. Let's find some solutions. Finally, I feel that the conflicts have arisen at the professional level between the two libraries because they are more of a prestigious issue. Which I do not think is our intention to resolve, but to adopt such a law that is for the benefit of all the inhabitants of our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Comrade Gerencher. My friend Bevk, my friend Potsch, and then Partljič and my last colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	If anyone is "muti", as the former Minister of Culture and his fellow Member, Školč, has said, it is him. I have only proposed that we take a little more time to consider a new solution by the third reading and, of course, that I support this amendment proposed by colleague Pozsonchev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. My friend Potts, behind him, my friend Partlych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Some of the discussions were from the fellow Members of Parliament, and for whatever reason, so far supported the proposals of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. I'd like to say that I was usually one of them. I'll say it as a rule, because there could have been some mistake. Why? Because I'm sure there's never too much for the rights of nationality to be done. Because the purpose of their equality is precisely in special rights. Without the specific rights of this equality, this was why I have generally defined myself as such. My colleague Marika Possonec asked me whether or not it would be a logical formulation and a proposal, as she put it. I told her it was. And that's why I'm going to support this proposal. But I have to tell you for a minute why. As regards general libraries in national mixed areas, I agree that the nationality community, Hungary and Italy have this right and that it has it. Whether each national mixed congregation has this general library or not, that is another question. As far as I know, most people don't, but that's another question, but some of these general libraries also provide the Hungarians with this right from the general library. Then we have another provision, which is talking about central district general libraries. I understood that one of the general libraries also carried out these additional tasks, which are listed in four indents, and I felt that these additional tasks were possible and necessary for Slovenian library material, which the law itself assumes, since it is written for this, and that there are no provisions in law that would regulate the position of the central district general library for Hungarian. He doesn't have any. And that's why I thought it was appropriate to get them, and when I was asked the question, and normally that the indirect district general library could be in a national mixed area, I thought it was, and therefore there was no reason and no argument to argue against it. At the same time, I did not think that the library in Murska Sobota would lose the character of the central district general library for Slovenian language. Not at all. She'll have it, she'll keep it, she'll develop it. I didn't think that one book from Murska Sobota was going to move to Lendava. I also thought and suggested to Mary that she might be thinking about the formulation, as she had been mentioned earlier by her colleague Moze, because she was not exactly the same, she knew Moze, where the differences in these respects were, in order to seek a solution for which more Members and Members might be able to do so. At the same time, I said that if he was not prepared to seek this compromise, I would support this proposal. I must say that I am sure, at least after all the discussions so far, that nothing particularly wrong will be done if we support Taamandma, that none of what is being said now, what will be lost, what will be moved, how impossible it is, how everything is arranged, is simply not true. The question is only whether we want to settle the issue of the central district general library for the Hungarian language, for the Hungarian national community in particular in this law, and to say that it would be appropriate for us to sit this one in an area where it lives which is mixed by nationality, in short where the national community lives. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. But I'll have to say, I'm glad if there's any way we can find a solution that we can unanimously support because I don't think we're having this much discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Two more have been reported. Three. My colleague Partljič, then my colleague Juban and his colleague Školč applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Respectable. First, I'd like to replicate my colleague and my friend Potsch. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	My friend Potts, I'd like to replicate it for you. Replicated in this sense that, of course, I fully agree with you and I don't think that it's necessary to convince you that I, too, think that they need to be given, as is called positive discrimination, so there is never too much rights. I couldn't agree more. I hope it wasn't my discussion that you wanted to take someone. What rights of Hungarian nationality. Or that I would object in any way to the lady of the House, with whom I have always agreed, but in one thing I have a different view. I am convinced that this is not in the interest of the Hungarian community and that it is not in the interest of bilingualism in this area, but that bilingualism is colliding in one narrower belt around Lendava and that Prekmurje is no longer a bilingual province. And if this goes on, someone may move out of Lendava, who moved there, and we will not have a sample and a good bilingual area. For we have already made some Hungarian congregations, as they say at home, we quickly "rocked in" one Slovenian municipality. Is that normal for a bilingual area, I ask? That is why I think that this policy of concentration, radio, newspapers, libraries, only one of the Hungarian municipalities, is to the detriment of bilingualism in this area and in Slovenia. It's my only commitment, and otherwise, it could be understood for the benefit of this community.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Now it's not my ad personum comment, it's ad rem. I think the arguments are starting in this over an hour and 20 minutes of lengthy debate to repeat. Mr Juban and colleague Školč also asked for the floor, and then I would ask everyone to weigh one and another arguments with arguments. Comrade Juban, then colleague of the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. My thinking on the problem suddenly changed completely. For this reason, we have been under the impression that the Lendava General Library is too weak for the needs of nationality and therefore we need to transfer the program, in a way, to Lendava. In the debate, colleague Potrč and some others, you found that nothing changes in the provincial and study library in Murska Sobota, nor in any book, nor in the human resources library. But there's something we need to do for the Lendau part. I'm asking if the amendment may not have been incorrectly located. In Article 25, we are talking about regional provincial libraries. And for the circuit work, I called back when my colleague Ašišć discussed the province, and there is no problem in Pomura for the time being. Everyone who knows the organization of the landscapes knows that we had a little dilemma about what a country is. The question was by appointment. Whether Pomurje is either Prekmurje and Prleki and whose expression is worse or more appropriate. And for the provincial study library in Ljutomer, where concerns about regional organisation were raised, they joined the organization of this kind of library that we are talking about today. And they had no concerns about the province and the provincial library, such as it was organized and physically built. 22% of the personnel are for hungaristics. Now the question is, are we going to take this down, what I said in my debate, how will Ljutomer behave? Or someone else. So, let me finish. It seems to me that this amendment has been misinterpreted if it really is what you're talking about. In no way interferes with the system of the provincial and study library in Murska Sobota, nor with personnel, materials, nor with the system. But today it's not just the library book. It's everything else. Today's technological, technical possibilities give everything else. And we're obviously creating an inappropriate mood because of the problem, if that's true, which we've created here today. In fact, with the construction of this library physically and technologically, I think that the whole province acquires a lot, in terms of scale and quality, of human resources, with these personnel specially trained for hungaristics and doing their work very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Of course, I apologize to the President because in some ways I will say the same thing that I have already said several times, but it seems to me that it makes sense for a simple reason, because I see that colleague Potrč, who is also an excellent lawyer, has actually misunderstood - at least as I read this law - what is governed by Article 25. That's what the forerunner was talking about. Article 25 simply does not speak unless someone is projecting wishes in it, nor is there any task associated with the exercise of the rights of national communities. I am sure he will agree with me that if these rights were to be related in any way, I think they should be exercised through several indents in order for this forecast to state in Article 23 what is being done. Then it would be, say, 25th and in which, it could be done. But Article 23 was always enough to solve the problems that Mrs. Pozsonec is talking about. This amendment does not belong to this article. This, the amended article, will not be possible to implement, because this will then mean that, in this case, the Minister will have to somehow invent what are the tasks of those four indents relating to the rights of the national communities and that part of the tasks will have to be delegated to the library which is "sit down" to the national mixed area. Of course, it does not need to know all this, but the only library which also has a physical seat in this national mixed area and is a "legal person" to use this name is the library in Lendava. Of course, hypothetically in Murski Sobota we could be "bad" and this library would register in Hodosh and be a circus again. But it could be. But that's not what this is about. In fact, there are two general libraries that do this. This idea that regionally something is, I will say, necessary to regulate also for the needs of nationality, simply, I will say, through the formation of marriage she has never been present. It may be now - this answer may be heard. That's why he's so, I'll say, the amendment, incorrectly located. We had an amendment to article 23, where it could be discussed, and it was good luck, and I think it is better that Mrs Pozsoncheva withdrew it. However, I would only say to my colleague Bevk that I apologize that I did not have the Slovenian expression for the defamation of clear water at that time. But I must say that from all of my discussions, he has only heard what concerns him, but unfortunately not a very clear position on what I have. But it's not mine. It's his problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Good. First my friend Jakič, then my friend Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, President. I have to say that I'm a little confused when I listen to this hour and a half of the debate and this and those arguments for and against. If, of course, Brecht said that the book is a weapon and should be taken into account, then, of course, Mrs Possonchev's amendment is in a real fight with regard to the rights of the Hungarian minority. And of course, because I would like to be in the clear when I decide on this amendment, I would nevertheless call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to explain its position and the arguments which led the government and the ministry to support this amendment. Because I have heard quite a few comments from my colleagues, which go in the direction that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is probably not interested, both financially and otherwise, in supporting the two centres in Prekmurje. That is why, of course, the President would like to hear a clear position before you conclude this discussion, especially the arguments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why this amendment of Mrs Possoncheva has supported, so that, of course, me and those colleagues who have not been involved since the beginning in this, as is now seen as a serious, difficult, emotional discussion, can make a decision on the basis of arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	The government has the opportunity to engage in an interview and would invite it to comment on this issue at the end of the debate. Mr Špindler and his colleague, Mr Špindler, have also been reported in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Mr. Skull, just this to explain. In my debate, I said that I understand the law in a way that the function of the central strong general library is not specifically regulated by the Hungarian language law, but that it deals only with the issue of the general library in article 23. And when I was asked that question, I said that it would be right to regulate another. And if he wants to regulate the second one, I thought it was a normal location in Article 25, where the issue of central district general libraries is regulated. As for the four indents, I imagined that the four indents meant tasks that could be shared with the tasks of the Slovenian Book Fund and the tasks of the Hungarian Book Fund. And that's how I both understood it. And once again, I say that I understand correctly and that this is possible, and so far this has not been arranged. And that is more than I would have if the amendment had been adopted, given to the Hungarian national community, as it has been regulated so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	Colleague Špindler, behind him a colleague of Montenegro and a colleague of Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'm from this area, but not bilingual. However, a consensus was signed on the construction of the Mursko-Hosto library, between the municipality of Pomurju. I will regret if this amendment is voted out because this amendment undermines the consensus on the impact of this agreement on the construction of the library in Murski Sobota. I declare to you that the municipality or municipal council of Ljutomer will be discussed at the next meeting of this Decision and this agreement. He will probably make a different decision and withdraw from this agreement, which has been reached by consensus. I am sorry that this is happening, but I speak on the basis of the Hungarian ethnic minority in the municipality of Moravske Toplice, which has written nicely to you that it does not depart from this agreement, which was written to support the native provincial study library in Murske Sobota and do not agree to any transfer or coordination as the Lendava library. These are the things that are written here. The position of the Hungarian Nationality Self-Government Community and of the Municipal Council is unchanged, it is not possible to agree with the change in the role played by the provincial study library to the offices of Prosjenjakovci libraries and Mutvarjevci. This is in mixed areas. These areas are also visited by this bus, which is owned by the Mursko-Hosto library, and from the village to the village so many times - and so many times it brings this and offers book wealth to all citizens and citizens of Hungary and Slovenian nationalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	The debate continues and no one has the right to limit this debate. They were first reported by counterpart Črnugelj, a colleague of Školč, then a colleague of Possonec, the government also applied. Once again, I ask that these debates be held as long as it still needs to be embellished with new arguments, but otherwise I think that after an hour and a half of this long debate we are ready to make a decision. First a colleague of Montenegro, then a colleague of Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Indeed, this debate is very rich and shows a certain lack of coherence between all Members and possible governments. The Society of Librarians, the Association of Librarians of Slovenia, gave a good summary of the creation of legislation in Slovenia for the field of librarianism in one of its library numbers. If we had the opportunity to read this, a rather rich history of the creation of librarian legislation would actually determine why such disagreements and possible misunderstandings are taking place. The decision contained in all these articles, which deal in some way with this legislation, is that, unfortunately, no legislation adopted in the field of Slovenia has been able to apply in any way. Nor is the concept that has been in some way enforced or declared through this legislation. And it is precisely because no legislation has yet been able to take effect, either because of financial, other organisational problems, that there is also a disagreement between the creation and the original tasks of the two libraries of Murska Sobota and Lendava. This is also a great concept, which is passed on in an endless way through Slovenian librarying and theory, this is the concept of centralisation, decentralisation or polycentric development of librarianism in general. Once, in our long-term tasks, librarians have set themselves a polycentric development of libraries and activities, and through a cooperative database and a way of cooperating between libraries, we have done this in some way. The problem is, of course, how and in what way to give the possibility that some of the original tasks of minorities will also be applied in the area and at the seat of those municipalities where the majority is part of the national mixed population. I think it would be good to think and, as colleague Bevk said, by the third reading, this article can be thought up and yet find a solution so that one is not very pleased and the other is very unhappy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. A colleague of school and then a minister. Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I believe that for many this is a pain in the ass, but it seems to me that this is some very crucial discussion about understanding very simple things. From this point of view, I would just like to convince Mr Potsch that he is trying to solve the problem that this, I will say the law saves in other places, and that from this point of view it is actually some kind of a time bomb, but I will not say what such an explosion can do. This article, if it doesn't make sense to read it now and I don't think it makes sense to read it in conjunction with 23rd, it makes sense to read it in conjunction with a possible 6th article that talks about very simple things, what the purpose of libraries is. What I think he is mistakenly trying to be benevolent is to follow the criteria of language as something that requires motherhood. That's not gonna hold. We will be able to say this to librarians of our own kind, as well as others, as well as the end of the ministry. Because, if this is true, then it is necessary to look at these points, where there is a lot of information and books in German, Italian, English and whatever languages, but there is no need to establish any specific motherhood. And the language criteria are not, as he suggested, the one who would suggest that some central library must be native because of "language belongs". That's not gonna hold. Librarians must be trained to provide access to key information, in fact, from all areas of the world's intervention. This is the idea of this law and it also works essentially on this system, which is, I'll say, functionally centralised for this operating database. Which means no one does certain things twice, but they do things cooperatively. However, with this system very decentralised, throughout Slovenia, we can all draw relevant information from our home or other libraries. And from this point of view, I'm going to say that this decentralisation is not absolutely at risk, but, I'm going to say, technology, which sounds paradoxical, has actually made it significantly more accessible in even such remote places. It seems to me that there is no force now to seek to determine some role of the central libraries even for a national mixed area, this is not, in fact, in Article 25, and 23. It is very clear that these things are being done exclusively and only with the consent of the national community. It is a question of whether the national community can really formulate its interests and then enforce them higher-a-vis these booklets. We refer in this case to letters and opinions that are positive for this library in Murska Sobota. Perhaps it would be interesting for someone to round up Prekmurje and hear about how these interests are being exercised in the library of Lendava. But that wouldn't change anything. I'm afraid then we'd have decided more quickly about the basic text than we are now when I tell you this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Colleague Poxon!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, you've had four years to take care of this thing so deeply, maybe you could stay behind more in this area. In 1999, we applied to you with the same request and in the name of nationality, but you ignored it. I don't know, really, why it is necessary from this small segment, which would remain for nationality, to make a common tragedy in Prekmurje, in Murska Sobota, that no one threatens the House Library. This highly esteemed institution is not yet able to form its own status, it is still operating under the 1992 decree, and I do not want to say that there are no experts there. They may be experts, but they're not the ones who need this. Because nationality lives elsewhere and nothing else. We don't care, I don't know what language librarians speak. We are interested in the Hungarian Book Fund and the work and life in this area, in bilingual areas. Nothing else. Everything you've listed, only those things you want to do, so in Lendava, the household, then the connection to Hungary, etc. If we don't have the right, then I don't know, then I don't know, I'm asking what rights we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	The first part of your performance was not the subject of a debate, which I am now obliged to warn because the debate seems to be moving forward. My colleague Majnikov asked for the floor. Madam Secretary is waiting for the performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	I only have one short replica. It has been repeatedly pointed out today that we are talking about two different things. One is central district libraries, and one is libraries that are for national minorities. And the tasks of the central libraries cover the areas of all areas, all languages, all members of the nationalities and all. One is a library for the protection of national minorities. Even after the current law on librarying, the Lendava Library is obliged to take care of libraries in its territory, is obliged to take care of development, is obliged to take care of material and is obliged to take care of the household. The Central District Library has additional tasks to do. And that's what Article 25 is talking about. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	I need to fix my colleague. One more time. Three kinds of libraries are here, which I discussed at the beginning. And there are no libraries to protect ethnic minorities, there are no libraries for national minorities, as a colleague calls them, but there are general libraries in national mixed areas. These are general. In libraries, central district libraries, one word is not about the national community. In national libraries, however, the whole indent is dedicated to the development of the national Tuv Slovenia community. That's what I'm talking about. And special libraries, national minorities, are not defined here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	There are no more reported discussions between colleagues and colleagues. That way, we can give the floor to the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Members! I must say that I have listened with joy and sadness to this debate, which was everything but a debate in the drafting of legislation or in the preparation of coordination and discussion on all these amendments that are before you today. I must say, Mrs. Majnikova has made a wonderful definition. And also the definition of how libraries are ranked. With this amendment, the Ministry of Culture has asked itself a number of questions and then has also decided on the outstanding questions or answers in particular whether the tasks of the central libraries for minorities are such that they also mean the exercise of minority rights. And that main argument, too, is the number of inhabitants in a particular area that covers a certain part. And this is also the question that we do not yet have legislation for areas or regions in Slovenia. Nevertheless, the debate has come to an end, and I must say in some waters. And if I read to you what this article, the amendment says, some of you went into a debate. The Murska Sobota and its central library continued to have exactly the same status as before. And the status doesn't change. In fact, this article states that the competent minister of culture will only delegate tasks referred to in the second paragraph concerning members of national minorities and transfer them to the implementation of the general library. We're talking about assignments. We are not talking about the material or any other transfer, nor about the employees. This is said to be likely to be discussed and discussed further. The State allows the decentralisation or establishment of this same possible library at another location, which, as I mentioned earlier, is preliminary as well as that we have given support because we have some open issues and could raise a constitutional dispute in closing and non-supporting. However, please, other matters and the definition of libraries and the performance of public tasks remain unchanged by law, as it itself speaks of what are central libraries in the territory of Slovenia and also their role.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	I have to say, I still don't understand my colleagues so uniformly. Because look, Article 2 is very clear. One of the regional libraries provides an increased and more difficult selection of library materials and information. So it's not that the library in Murska Sobota is going to clear up what it has, but the ministry will have to decide whether this increased volume will ensure, in this case, the Lendava library or the House Library. That's one thing. Given that a minority lives in the area of both communities, the infrastructure is trained by this library on Saturday, and the other does not live to that extent, it will be difficult to carry out this task as it would have been carried out throughout Slovenia. Unless we make one more exception, it's better to do it twice as once, which is why I don't see a special reason, because it's a similar story to having two NUKs, but that's another story. The second indent discusses the provision of professional assistance to all libraries in their area. This would be done in a way that would just be one for the other, but both of them would be higher than bird, bitter, novomish, and not listing other libraries, very quickly in a subordinate position. The third indent speaks of coordination of collection, processing and feeding of household material for its territory. That would also mean that we have two central libraries. If a minority were to be bound by Article 23, it would not be agreed on. Nothing else, we'd have two. I think it's unnecessary and not rational. If you'll listen to me. And the last thing to do is to direct the isolated library material out of its area, the only one that's in some way harmless, redo means once again that it's necessary to train people in two libraries. And that is why it seems to me that this benevolence to nationality, which I also support, must be directed at other things, but not actually to work in the Pmurje de facto area with this potentially two central district library, which I think we consider to be rich in these rights, and also rather wasteful. So it's not true that anyone will know each other. Whether it will be known to the state budget or whether it will be known to one of the libraries.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Does anyone else want the word “amendment” under order number one to article 25 on page 10 of the review? [[Yeah.]] First my friend Jelinčič and then my colleague Moga.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to come by, but after all, this debate is already a little funny and de-laxed. It seems to me that we are ready in the National Assembly to solve the problems of the Hungarian national community and forget about the Slovenian word. After all, let us ask ourselves how many Slovenian books are in Sombate and how much and how much the Hungarian state cares about these books. After all, the cultural home in Lendava for Hungary was financed by the Republic of Slovenia and now again something is wrong that is not enough. I would like to ask how much money the Hungarian state has paid for Slovenian homes on the side where the indigenous Slovenian minority lives. I think that's something to think about, too. We're ready to take care of all minorities as one seems to know. We usually take care of these minorities in the way they sound and call out to the one who demands the most. However, when we talk about the rights of the Slovenians, we must kneel again before the neighbouring countries, and all is well and all is enough for our Slovenians on the other side. I think that this amendment simply needs to be rejected and we move forward with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	My friend Mogo!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much, President! It seems to me that someone is looking through the optics of the general model of culture in the Republic of Slovenia, and there are plenty of us among us who have already sat here; I know that two original sins have been committed. Both concerned or the law on the financing of municipalities, where he tried to build such a model, where he also tried to localize the territories of certain, as Ašič said, regional institutions and this district library is. If we want to take one consistent cultural policy in Slovenia and I, the Minister, the Secretary of State, place it on my heart, give it for God's sake to make a national programme in at least four years, or to make changes and supplements to the basic law, because this "murder" under special laws, without looking at the whole picture in front of us, is spiritistic and repulsive in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	Then does anyone else want a word? Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you. I just have a question for Madam Secretary. She has opened a whole new dimension, a new solution, about which colleague Školč spoke. Is it true that the system of the provincial and study library in Murska Sobota remains completely unchanged and completely funded? If it was to understand what I don't mind, not at all, at any point when you said that a second part or parallel system had to be built in Lendava for the purposes of nationality. In this part, I don't mind, and I'd like anyone to interpret things differently. But if that's true, or you're making sure that the room system stays and goes all the way it's set. This has been agreed, covered financially and the matter has expired. The co-financing by the affected congregations was not complete due to the confusion that exists in Lendava. The breakout that will take place on Murski Sobota will this state cover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Please don't disturb the speakers. I suggest you don't talk during the session. Would you like a word, colleague Pozsonec? Do you allow the Minister to answer the question raised? Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Your Honor! Mr Anderlich, I see you've already answered everything, even though you haven't heard my answer. I have mentioned that, according to current legislation and the status quo, libraries remain, as defined, according to the system that Mrs Majnikov said. We also have the status of central libraries, municipal libraries, etc. We very much need a national cultural programme, especially in the area of culture, because we have also defined and we have already dealt with ourselves in a substantive way twice on our law on the implementation of public interest in the field of culture or the law on the financing of municipalities, which will define and determine what the powers of the State and what are the powers of local communities and what are also the duties of the founders, that they also cover their responsibilities financially. The Constitution also tells us and binds us to what it is that we must pay or finance for our minorities or national communities. The Ministry of Culture is also one of the financiers of the national communities and, on the basis of the invitation to tender, also finances the activity every year. Here is also the issue of financing the development of the central two libraries, as I am listening to or giving an opportunity here today, which you will either vote on or not vote on with the amendment. It will also define how funding can be financed through certain budgets or through its programmes by means of an instrument adopted by these libraries or by a new library. Of course, something is likely to increase, a certain budget, but in agreement with the founder at all levels, both at the municipal level and at the national level. With these content here, I'm going to say, we're changing or not changing, we're complementing, and we're probably solving some other questions. But it is certain that the central library in Murska Sobota retains the same status it has so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	Colleague Pozsonec first, then Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I amend my amendment by entering before the word "procurement" the "certain tasks referred to in the second paragraph".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Then you must give it in writing, Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	You can do it orally, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	You have to give it to me in writing, but it doesn't have to be divided into benches. But I would like to get your proposal in writing. Can you get him ready? My friend Jelinčič wants a word. Please, colleague Pozsonec, hurry up so we can proceed with the adoption of the amendments to the law. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister did not answer my colleague Juban, who asked to what extent financial cake or money would be redistributed. All she said was that the library in Murski Sobota kept its status. And nothing else. And I'd like an answer to how much less money the library in Murski Sobota will get. And one more thing. If we have a central library, it cannot have two central libraries or three central libraries. We can only have a central library and other libraries. Unless the Ministry of Culture invented another mathematics, where there are several central points in one environment. Which, for the time being, except for the dissertation of Brian Josephfson, who won the Nobel Prize in the year, I don't think 1987 is possible in different segments. I think that if the Minister insists on this and if we adopt this law, it will actually collapse. The funding system will be broken. Undoubtedly, it will be contrary to the establishment of the adopted and coordinated budget, which you have adopted in coalition coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	My friend Spindler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. On the basis of my reply from the Minister, I believe that the agreement between the municipalities in Pomour is no longer valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then yes, Comrade Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	In the Liberal Democracy Group, it is not possible to provide support, not for the basic amendment, nor for this amended amendment. It was simply not said here what should have been said by the government and by the Ministry. This is only if I limit myself to the questions that Mr Juban has asked, and some others that I am not talking about all the other content - that an agreement has been signed between the State and the municipalities for a specific programme, for a specific volume of the library and for a certain status. Of course, by doing so, you are amending this agreement and, speaking also of ensuring, or making it clear that the State will ensure, which, of course, without the budget, I believe, you cannot do, the future, and will decide that the State will ensure what was signed with the agreement without co-signers, but which cannot if you are amending the rules during the implementation of the agreement, they can no longer participate in final financing. Since the answers were incorrect and, in my opinion, completely overturned the questions raised, we cannot guarantee the support of our Group of Members, not for one, not for the other amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Buddy Bevk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sorry that my fellow Members from the LDS are not prepared for any agreement. Colleague Pozsoncheva said she would change her amendment and add the word "certain" to her task. In fact, the ministry, or minister, Mrs Richtareva, responded perfectly to this dilemma. Nothing's going to change for Murko Sobota. However, something will probably change for Lendava, so that a few more funds may have to be provided for the library in Lendava. The Minister will just assign her a specific task, for example, to collect indigenous material from that area. Now I'm going to go to the museum. I'll just say one comparison. For example, the Gori Museum collects indigenous materials for the entire mountain area. The Idrian Museum collects indigenous materials only for an area covered by it. This is about the same question as the relationship between the Murskohodo library and the Lenda library, only that we are talking about Hungarian national territory. I think, like the Minister, that at the Murski Sobota, in this central library for this area, nothing will happen in a negative way, but that it will probably be necessary for certain tasks that the Minister or the competent minister, as stated in this amendment, will provide to the library of Lendava and will probably need a few more resources for this activity in the 2002 budget, for example, to collect domestic material. This is not so much a means to question the entire cultural and library activities of the country. That is why I think we could certainly support either this amendment originally proposed by Mrs Possonchev or the possibility of giving Mrs Possonchev some time to correct her amendment in writing and then such an amended amendment, which says that the individual tasks referred to in the second paragraph of Article 25 are also transferred to the library of Lenden. Thank you very much. I think that Members of the LDS colleagues and colleagues could also consider this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	Comrade Andrelich, then colleague of the School.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	I thank Mr Bevk, who has supported and justified the position of the LDS Group, why we cannot provide support for these amendments. He just said, no, nothing's going to happen to the Murcoho library. Of course not. But there will be a need to ensure that what we transfer from there is additional funding elsewhere. And in the 2002 budget, the Minister will arrange it and will finance something more there. Yes, Mr. Bevk, but that's not how it's done! We've probably got some kind of program, there's been an agreement on certain things signed here, and now you're undermining this agreement, you say, of course, because you're afraid of the Murzophos regional library, we're not going to change anything, we're going to add something to it, and we're not going to tell you how much it's going to cost, what part of how the minister's going to take under what rules he's going to take. These aren't things we take just like that. These are things that I think need to be based on numbers, on the program, on changes in the program. That's all I was talking about. For me, the program was acceptable, which was signed, the agreement was sufficient, you want to change it, and thank you for supporting us in our arguments, despite the fact that you will vote differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	Comrade Andrelich! It seems to you that any additional toll on the development of culture on our national territory is a waste. I have previously suggested that we consider until the third reading, that now the amendment and then by the third reading you will also be able to get all the numbers you are interested in, including how much more money may need to be given for the library of Lendava. But I don't think it's such a big deal that we can't agree to this amendment. If the library system in our country is to be dispersed for those few million tolars that will require additional annual provision to the library in Lenda, then it is indeed over.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	First of all, my fellow schoolboy. First of all, I'd like to warn someone that his phone is ringing. Good. A fellow school, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Of course, I hope that Bevek's colleague listened very carefully, especially Mrs Pozsoncheva, because if she listened very carefully to him, then she will see that everything we are saying now for two hours and what he is selling as much as he is providing the basic text of the law. I associate this with her remark that certain things are just a dead letter on paper. This promise, as fulfilled as Mr Bevk said, is a promise that is a dead letter on paper. In this case, the central library will continue to be a two-bedroom library and we have not advocated anything other than that there should be one central library at one end, while other things will be provided in one part via the booth, in the other part via the Lenda library. Now, I'm gonna say, he's showing off the full face of these empty promises. The whole time, it was offered to see in Article 23 whether there was any other way to ensure these things. From this point of view, I firmly believe that for the national community and, above all, for this district library and the system of regional libraries, we should do our best not to drag this dilemma, as Mr Bevk says, into the third reading, but to clear it with arguments that are sufficiently on the table at today's session. About how much money and how this money works, I think it's a waste of time again. This money is given to additional municipalities for this activity and must then be transferred, as in other cases, to institutions covering the specific needs of the community. This isn't about any special invitations. They're just competing for programs. However, certain funds are allocated to the municipalities for what is called bilingual business. One part gets school and so on. So it would be very good for people who have so much concern for the problems of nationality to really know this system. I have happily led this government committee or commission for the questions of these national communities for some time. I must say, such questions were not raised there either. It seems to me that it is good that this discussion has been so long and exhausting that Mrs Possonceva can see that her closest friends are not actually offering anything more than what we are telling her that she is smart in a clean marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	I have become accustomed to any amendment of the law, or to any adoption of the law, to foresee the consequences, to justify them properly and, of course, to assess them financially. I'm really surprised that you can say, for a few million, for a few tolars something will increase, we'll double something, we'll have here and we'll have a little bit more there and the minister will do something. It's just that, in my firm belief, the laws don't work. Tell me how much this is, how this will be done and so on. It is necessary to base any amendment on the consequences it will have for the implementation of this law. In the final stage, you have a mandatory component of the law at the beginning of the law, financial implications for the state budget, with one or the other arrangements. If you are changing the matter that you yourself have proposed, then the government text was just the way it was and you predicted the financial consequences, you can anticipate them for the changed regime and we will see what it really means. Besides, it's a promise I can't make. That's all this is about. There's no third treatment. In the second reading, when you propose an amendment, the amendment must have all these ingredients, as the ingredients must also have the basic text of the law. Besides, I'm really embarrassed because I don't know what I'm really taking. However, I know, and at first glance it seems clear to me that if I ignore the substantive discussions about librarianism and so on, it is a matter of doubling some of these things, at least one part. However, in order to ensure that things or standards for Hungarian nationality are provided within this second level of the organisation of libraries, I am sure that we have already arranged this in Article 23 and that there was no special need for change. So please, if you are so vehement and promise that it will cost something small and that will be redistributed to justify explaining and assessing what this means.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	I absolutely agree with you, and I must say
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Madam Minister, you can stand up for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	I'm sorry. I must say that I very much agree with you and that all the consequences that also follow from the adoption of laws are, of course, defined and said at the time of adoption. According to our calculations, according to the proposed amendments and the law, there are additional funds to burden the 2002 budget, about 450 million dollars. In view of this amendment, I cannot answer you, because we have now seen that they are changing, what tasks and whose tasks they are performing. This is very difficult for me to define and answer today. In view of this and also of this debate, then there is a reckoning and a reckoning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	That is the problem, for neither the tasks or things that are to be transferred are defined, but what is to say, part or some, according to some judgment, by some arrangement. That's not how I feel about the laws. But if it's said, it's arranged for this level of this, for this level of this level of this, whether it will be transferred through a national programme, as you said, or whether it will be transmitted with what I don't know. But I would rather see that this is predicted by the law, which things will move and define them, evaluate them and make an amendment in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would only warn you that when we received the parallel, I drew the money for culture, the law on the financing of municipalities, I said that there would be such a hole in it that it would be terrible. Minister, don't you now have a 4-billion-dollar hole created here due to the adoption of this law? Now let us compare the order of magnitude and how we judge who we share our rights to. If we say that we have now bogged down the issue of central district libraries and the question of ethnic minorities in this article only on those 150 million tolars, as you say, it seems to me that such a discussion here is not worth this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Anyone else want a word? First of all, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Baskovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd just like to talk to you about the number. When the law was committed to this respected National Assembly, it was clearly stated in the chapter, which is a mandatory ingredient in the interpretation, that, in itself, such as, without the progress of librarianism, introduces annual additional obligations for the state budget of 150 to 200 million, exactly as a result of the 25th Article, which introduces additional coordination functions in the four of those areas for probably 10, someone has previously used the term of future provincial libraries, now we say central district general libraries. This calculation, in the form of a fairly reliable assessment, was clearly made by the Ministry and presented to the well-respected assembly. How exactly this is going to be divided between these 10s is hard to say. But I would hope to help myself with simple mathematics. Mr Moze has used it before. It's probably going to be roughly adequately divided into ten large, not exactly the same. If 15 million were to fall on the mural, central area, which is and remains, at the expense of a possible amendment, that would be the decision of the respected assembly, to this Article 1 million, 2 or 3, in accordance with the provisions of the Minister, to determine what of the central functions of hungaristics could possibly be transferred to Lendu and the other 10 to 12 to Mursophos. This is the closest thing the Ministry can do right now. Only to the extent that there is a clear answer at this point and that there will be no bad taste that things have not been calculated up to this level of assessment. They were.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd go a little bit into this account when Mr Secretary said it would go to Lendava because of this amendment 1, 2, maybe 3 million. Yeah, for a month. A month. If we take the central district library, we should have all the employees, which means about 10 employees, and on average, if we just take the gross salary of 300,000 tolars, even though I know that, for example, the head of the library currently has about 320,000 tolars net, that in gross amounts to about 3 million per month, times 12, that amounts to about 36 million dollars per year. I don't mean to challenge what the Ministry says, but it's a purely simple account that shows a very different number than it's been shown right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Peterle, you have a colleague named Pozsonec in front of you. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	I was sorry for some time, so I did not follow or hear everything that was said. What I've been listening to for over an hour worries me a little bit, but not because of the coalition's announcement, which has failed to discuss the matter. I find it incongruous that this is how debate breaks on the back of a minority, if I say so, while I think that the amendment of Ambassador Pozsonchev is also misinterpreted in a financial sense. If it says here that they're being transferred to the general library, I don't know why a cost could be incurred if it's taken somewhere, but somewhere. This does not mean that the number of employees is doubled. It may be possible that someone, working for 30 miles, may be disturbed by the method of learning after two hours about some millions that no one at first wanted to say anything about. And if we talked for another two hours, we'd find out something else interesting. So I do not want to be rooting here in this regard and asking this basic question: Why seek solutions or see solutions that require more money. I do not think that there is a need for more money under such an amendment, so our Group sees no reason not to support one or another version of the amendment by Ambassador Pozsonchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	Let me inform the National Assembly that colleague Pozsonec has tabled a new text of the amendment to Article 95, and I therefore understand that colleague Pozsonec is withdrawing the previous text. The difference is that you stress that the individual tasks referred to in the second paragraph are transferred. Is that right? Can you tell me about this? Please. Mrs. Possonec. You can join Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	During this discussion, a variety of masks fell off their faces. [[...]] We are also taxpayers of this country, and our money is also in the money that goes to the congregations. This problem of being subject to our development in principle to lower what happened last time in Mr Anderlich's last debate, I think it is below the level of this Parliament. [[...]] Mr. Skull was talking about my friends. I am sure that in all the parliamentary groups, not me personally, but the nationality has its friends, and I am sure that their voice will be enough for the amendment to be adopted. I'm gonna do it again. But if only someone votes by letter of law, it also requires you to support the amendment, because Murska Sobota is not in the national mixed area and nationality is subject to its development and we do not want anything else. All those who support the amendment, whatever the outcome of the vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	Only to Mr Peterlet, because this is, I will say, one of the things that is gladly overlooked in this discussion, and we all act very nice when it comes to money, but if someone has to measure it, then it is not. 25. The article only speaks of this and nothing else, that the Ministry, by contract, should conclude a contract with the central libraries to carry out certain tasks that go wider. This contract, of course, has a financial part and I don't imagine it's any different. What I would like to say to him is that, on the basis of this amendment, one or the other, two contracts are likely to be concluded for some territory, and that is not justified. If he holds what the minister said and what Bevk said, which is a messenger for culture, that there is only one central library there, then it means that something has been given that cannot otherwise be given. This is what we are talking about all the time, not about increased funds for the national community, not about increased funds for the library of Lendava, but about this. That's, I'll say, the subject of my challenge, which is in principle. I am in favour of increasing funds if it turns out that the resources available to the Lendava Library cannot satisfy all the needs of the population, both Slovenian and Hungarian. But this is the second discussion. Using the central term to redistribute money, I think it's wrong to argue with the logic of the law. Of course, someone will be able to come and say, if they can, who have such a fund and such qualified people, then I will tell you that of course you have libraries on the edge that they perform, as you will see, even the borrowing tasks across the border. It is said that the Tolmin library in one part helps to solve the cultural problems of the Venetian Slovenes, the Goriška library of Franceta Bevka over in Gorica, etc. From this point of view, the reptiles of all these additional things will immediately come out. But since they don't have their friends at this point in time, don't get me wrong, I also consider myself a friend of this Hungarian national community, but it seems to me that we have to keep our accounts completely clean. This amendment, I'm sorry, these clean bills are off, so we're talking for two hours. There's no way to say it's going to be the same, but there's going to be more. That's not the same. I'm sorry, it's not the same. It means doing something small to make peace in the house and to be generous. But I think there's something about the saying: Clean accounts, good friends. This amendment, however, places these things in a different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Anyone else want a word? I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate. I have already informed the National Assembly that colleague Possonec has tabled a new text of the amendment to Article 25. You got the text of the amendment on the bench. We will decide on the amended or replaced text of the amendment to Article 25. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There are 61 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 17 votes in favour, 29 of whom were colleagues and colleagues. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 29.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We must now vote on the text of Article 25 as a whole. I'm putting him to the vote. 61 colleagues and colleagues are present. The text of the Article was fully declared 45 and of them 3 opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] On the 11th page of Article 27, we have two amendments tabled. I'm asking if anyone wants a debate. Please. Procedural? Procedural proposal or question? Proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I, Mr President, if you don't mind, would go back a little bit to the vote on the amendment to Article 20. There, as you know, we repeated the vote at the request or at the request of Mr Kavticnik, who said that he had made a mistake in the vote. I have both voting lists here. In the first vote, Mr Kavtičnik voted against and the same in the second vote. I think that the use of such methods, which is twice against, requires that the vote be repeated, I do not think that these matters belong to this National Assembly. But it's only been two minutes and 19 seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Comrade Kavtičnik, just for an explanation, I give you a chance, there will be no discussion about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	I'm just explaining. I wrote something down, I wrote something down, and I didn't know how I voted. I assumed I was wrong. I'm sorry. The vote was repeated. I've asked for a copy myself, and I have one myself, and I apologize, and I'd apologize otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	We therefore return to the debate on Article 27 and the amendments tabled. You want a word on this? There is no debate on the previous discussion. We, too, have acted contrary to the tradition of the past. If the Member considers that he has made a mistake, he shall propose a vote. The National Assembly shall evaluate and vote. If he wasn't mistaken, his colleague apologized, and so did his colleague Kavtičnik. We vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 27. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 27. 33 for 2 versus 62 present. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The second is irrelevant in this respect. We are voting on the whole article. We vote on the text of Article 27 in its entirety. Of the 59 present, 33 Members and Members voted in full for the text, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 29. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] First, I am putting to the vote the amendment under order number 1 of my colleague Tank. We're voting. I ask for peace and obedience so that the votes will not be repeated. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 10 for, 25 for. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 25.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment under order number 2 was voted against by 32, 2 against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 29 in its entirety. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make a procedural proposal at the request of my colleagues from the LDS who do not have croissants. I mean, they're asking that because Giro d'Italia starts to have a 15-minute break and we go out and take a look.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u133	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking my colleague Jelinčič, are you giving this on your behalf? I don't think anyone else needs a lawyer, they can tell their own story. Otherwise, I would suggest that you do not do so because I suggest that the National Assembly work until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u134	Mr. President, I did this on request. But if it was wrong, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u135	I suggest that there is no such thing in the National Assembly because there is no need for it. I think colleague Anderlich has the right to answer. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u136	I distance myself from this statement and appeal to the Members that we are working until 6 p.m. today in this plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much, for that explanation. All I ask is that in future such things do not happen in the National Assembly because there is no need for them. We have remained at Article 29 and are voting in full on it. We are voting on Article 29 as a whole. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There were 58 colleagues and colleagues present, 37 against, 2 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] The text has been adopted. On the 12th page of our review, we have a review of the three amendments to Article 31. Anybody want to talk about them? [[He doesn't want to.]] That way we can move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 56 colleagues and colleagues were present, 29 were in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 29.]] [[No one.]] The first amendment was given the necessary majority. Could you please contact your colleagues and their ballots - if they are not in the hall, I would ask you to remove the cards from the voting apparatus. Please do so before the next vote. We can proceed when the National Assembly is concluded. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Before we know the conclusion for the first time, I think my colleagues are close to the hall and I invite them to join us in order to continue our work, otherwise we will be able to determine the conjunctivities twice before the 10-minute break. But I won't wait long for that. If there are no colleagues and colleagues, we will be forced to do so. Please, if you take your seats, we will continue to decide on the amendments. We are at the second amendment or amendment under order number two to the 31st. Please insert the ballots. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 45 Members of Parliament present at this moment, although I can say that there are more of us in the Hall. I would therefore ask that I propose, colleagues and colleagues, there are 48 Members and Members present in the Chamber and we can decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 31. [[...]] We're voting. So there are, as we say, 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 35 votes in favour of the amendment of the Committee on Culture, 1 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against two.]] The National Assembly can now vote on the text of Article 31 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 32 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against one.]] The text has been adopted. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. Two amendments have been tabled for Article 32. Anybody want to talk about them? The amendment is being ruled out. If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, there will be no need to vote on the amendment under number 2. There's no debate. That is why we are moving to a vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 32. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. The amendments were voted on by 16 and against 19. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support, so we can vote on the amendment under number 2. We're voting. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. 31 colleagues and colleagues voted against the amendment, 3 against it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment got the required majority. We vote on the text of Article 32 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present, 32 in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] The text received support. Two amendments were tabled under Article 34. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] First, we will vote on the amendment under order number one. At this very moment, it appears, there is a lack of attendance. We decide on the amendment under order number one to Article 34. An explanation of the voice? I'm breaking up. I noticed a colleague of mine earlier. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I will not support the first amendment because the first amendment to Article 32 has not been adopted, and this relates to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u139	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on the amendment. It is not large enough. [[...]] I will wait another minute if the assembly is adjourned, if not, until the second vote is in place, we will give 10 minutes of rest before the third conclusion is determined, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. But I don't think that should be necessary. I think we can end the marriage in this reading today. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. Because no one wants to say the word Someone is I know there are enough colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. [[...]] [[...]] I think we'd do ourselves a bad favor if I said college now, if we waited for the third conclusion. Without this, I think we can ensure the necessary presence in the Chamber. Now there are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. This is an amendment under Article 1 to Article 34. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. For the amendment under order number 1 there were 41,1 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] He's got the required majority. We decide on the amendment under order number two. For the amendment under order number 2, out of 46 colleagues and colleagues present, 30 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] He's got support. We can vote on the full text of the article. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. Can I ask everyone to report their presence? There are 46 of us in the hall, so now the number of people reported and we can continue to make decisions. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 for a new Article 34a. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment for the new Article 34a. There were 32, 2 against, 46 colleagues and colleagues present. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against two.]] We have an amendment for a new 34.b. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting him to the vote. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 33, 8 against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The new Article 34b is adopted. We have two amendments to Article 35. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the amendment under order number 1 on page 14 of the review to the vote of Article 35. We are under the first amendment to Article 35. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. 17 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 22.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 37 votes in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the full text of the article. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 35 were supported by the text of the article, one objected. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 38. Anybody want to talk about him? Nobody wants it, so I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 35 of them voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 38 has been adopted. We can now make a full decision on the text. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. On page 16 of the review we have a proposal for a new Article 38a. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. For the new 38a, of the 47 present Members and Members, 33 votes in favour, 1 against him. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the new Article 38a has been adopted. We have three amendments tabled for Article 41. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] The first amendment shall be excluded with the second and third amendments. We will vote on it first. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The amendment under order number one was voted 19 and 9 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Second and third thus become irrelevant. We now vote on the text of Article 41 in its entirety. We vote on the full text of the article. There were 47 Members and Members present, 28 of them voted in favour of the text and 3 opposed. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against three.]] The text has been adopted. I am informed that the text of the amendment is withdrawn, irrelevant, as of Article 42. This way we can go to the debate on the amendments tabled in Article 44 - these are the four amendments. Anybody want to talk about them? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one to Article 44, on the 17th page of our review. We're voting. 48 colleagues and colleagues were present, 33 were in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment under order number one has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 48 Members and Members present. The amendment under order number two was voted in favour of 32, against no one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] The text of the amendment is adopted. We're voting on amendment number three. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The amendment under order number three was voted in favour of 31, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the last, fourth amendment to the article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present; the amendment under order number four was voted against among the 48 present 29.3. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on the full text of Article 44. We're voting. There were 48 Members and Members present, 36 of whom were in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This is how the text is adopted. We have one amendment to Article 46. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on this. We vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 46. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present, 30 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 46 as a whole. There were 48 colleagues and colleagues present, 36 of them voted in full for the text of Article 46, one against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The text has been adopted. Two amendments have been tabled on the 18th and 19th pages of the review. If an amendment under order number one is adopted, an amendment under order number two will become irrelevant. Anybody want a word? We're making a decision. We vote first on the amendment under order number 1. If adopted, the amendment under order number 2 will be irrelevant. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 34 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how he becomes the second meaningless. We vote on the text of Article 47 in its entirety. We're voting! There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 32 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 48. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment under Article 1 to Article 48. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 38 for, no one against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 48 in its entirety. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three for it, no one against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have an amendment to Article 49. Anybody want a word? Yes, he does. Please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u140	Dear Mr. President! I cannot support this amendment in any way, because I am convinced that the amendment to Article 49 essentially imposes sanctions on the entire system of financing libraries, which is distinctly inconsistent with the law on the financing of municipalities and the very affected 130 municipalities which emerged after 1.1.1995. Now I'm gonna try to justify it. I have in my hands an additional report to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financing of the Communities of 17.6.1998. This report has been prepared by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent of the labour force. In this report, which essentially replaces three categories of municipalities in terms of funding, namely municipalities with a coefficient for calculating the appropriate consumption of 0.7 - these are all municipalities that have been formed since 1.1.1995 - then municipalities with a coefficient of 0.74 - these are the municipalities where the municipalities were established prior to the entry into force of this law and for 11 municipalities. With this in view of funding, this National Assembly has passed three categories of municipalities, I will say: one pure, some ordinary, one slightly more privileged - by 4% more privileged - and the other by 8% more privileged. However, I would like to draw attention to the justification given by this working body when adopting the 20th Article of the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, and I now quote: "The sum of all coefficients is 100, but as a result of an additional increase in one category of municipalities, it increases to 104 and 108. The proposed increase in coefficients is intended to allow municipalities based in places where municipalities were established prior to the implementation of the Law establishing the municipalities and setting up their areas, and for the municipalities, to provide smooth funding for additional costs in the field of public consumption, headquarters libraries, sports institutions." If we look at the second document that we received this year, namely the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities and the amounts of financial compensation, it is clear that these 60 municipalities, which are second and third-rate or more and more privileged to participate in approximately 100 billion budgets in this way and that this 04 or 08% already commits to this 20th section of the Law on the Financing of Libraries, after such a rough calculation, close to 10 or some over 10 billion tolars. I submit that this law, which we have just adopted, does not take that into account. This difference is not taken into account, and as a result, this law, the 130 congregations, is grossly unfair or favored by 60: 11 city halls and 50 other congregations. I am convinced that the people in these 130 municipalities are smart enough to know what this is about, and that they will also know, because of the arguments I have said, to reject or "dispute" this marriage. Look! These congregations are, at a distinct margin, in principle and sanctioning in the way that we will now write in Article 49, the failure to comply with the obligations of this law seems to me to be extremely unfair. And I'm going to use my predecessor's word, I heard him earlier from a speaker who said, "we're dead," and I literally agree to "we're dead." There's something else I'd like to ask the Ministry. What sanctions have been provided so far by the municipalities that have had funding for libraries under Article 20a of the Law on Community Financing and have not done so? From the review we received today, we can also see that they did not even put in the units of libraries the material they were supposed to buy from the funds the Ministry of Culture has earmarked for the purchase of library material. I didn't make that up. I read it in today's supplemental material. Look, we take it where it's not, and we put it where there's something more -- I'm not saying that's enough. This law, thus the way in which the financing of the necessary library activity has been established, is extremely unfair, as I have already said, taking into account Article 20a of the Law on the Financing of Communities and the explanation of the committee responsible. I would like to, in fact, have an answer before we vote. If you are and why you are not, at least I could not read from this law, where the previously established differences in the financing of municipalities clearly say that the coefficient is 4 percent higher or 8 percent higher, because this money is intended to finance libraries, sports establishments and so on. That's how much I wanted to say. I hope you understand. Once again, I would like you to be convinced that they understand the dissimilarity that this creates, including the people in all 130 congregations affected in one way or another, and that they will not see the injustice that is being done by the application of this method of financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Member Majnikov has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u142	I would like to stress once again what I am already doing in my opening remarks on the presentation of another reading. That is, we did not interfere with the basic concept of librarianism, which speaks of library activity as the original competence of the local community. That is why we did not transfer this activity to state funding. Major problems in libraries began with the change in previously guaranteed spending at the appropriate spending institute. Since I come from practice, I would be very happy if all congregations once fulfilled all the duties and obligations they have under law. In some parts of the world, the congregations were able to reach an agreement. In some environments, the distribution balance has been signed. In some environments, precise calculations have been made as to how much of the municipalities must cover the total costs of the library, the purchase of materials; how much it has to cover for the tenants in its territory, the units of the library in its territory; and in many areas there was no agreement. And since we cannot build a system on an agreement and on the fact that there are no protectors anywhere, our Group insists on adopting this amendment, which gives one guardian in the event that the congregation does not only exercise its rights, but also does not fulfil its duties. If I'm not mistaken, your colleagues spoke to Article 16 about the rights of the municipalities. The rights of the congregations are also the responsibility of the congregations, not just of justice. And in proportion to the extent to which a congregation has rights, it also has responsibilities. If we have decided on the concept that this is the right and duty of the local community in a share that is calculated according to the legacy of the breakdown of individual municipalities, I think that is the case. You were talking about the deprived position of 130 municipalities. I would say, over the last three years, about the deprived situation of those 60 municipalities that had to assume the obligation to finance several municipalities and therefore cannot invest their resources in, cannot invest in, cannot invest in, and cannot invest in, infrastructure. If it is the interest of this country that complete life in Slovenia will be put on a single denominator, then we will adopt such laws that will continue to favour the smallest and the most backward, and to all others practically by law order that they stand in their place. But I think it's the interest of the state that we all move forward together. It does not seem fair to me that in those municipalities that have been carrying this burden for the past three years to maintain the full activity of these public institutions, we do not allow libraries to obtain financial shares in any way from all those co-founders or co-contractors who have to provide them with these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of niggers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u144	I don't want to repeat myself. Only if I understood your debate, Mr Sušnik, did you talk about the injustice that will happen to all those 130 congregations in one way. I think that this injustice has, in fact, been committed to all those congregations that have been fairly, properly and regularly fulfilling all their rights and duties and obligations. These are the cardinals. But you can see from the annex you received today which congregations did not fulfill these obligations. You know, these obligations have not been fulfilled to libraries and thus the citizens and people of those municipalities have not been able to obtain all the material and information they are entitled to receive. This means that all municipalities have created a relationship in one way or another that has reduced the equality of all people in Slovenia. So I think that the only way to bring the law on how to finance local self-government to an end is by one way and that, in fact, the matter is also transparent, clear that we are also going to apply this law in one way. If the primary and exclusive function of the municipality as such is that of the local community, that it also satisfies the rights of all citizens, let it do so. Otherwise, if you feel that guilt has been committed, then go and change the law on local self-government and not this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We've got some reports. First my colleague Partljič, then my colleague Kremjar and also Mr State Secretary. First of all, Comrade Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u146	I apologize, Mr Sušnik, although I am not gossiping, I did not listen very carefully at first so that what I am about to say is not really a controversy with you, but I would somehow like to attract both colleagues who spoke before me and who are both coming from the Librarians' Library Council. So, I came by because there are a lot of people from the library -- I remember writing an article about the ancient library, where they sealed the door because they couldn't agree with the mother library in Celje, how much share would there be in Storrah for the unit they had there. When I wrote this, I may even have wronged the mayor partly because he then called me and said that he also had credit for this fund now. But I got mail from many places in Slovenia, from library directors, who thanked me for reminding me of one problem because they are actually waiting for the same because many municipalities do not want to participate. I can see that, if I am not mistaken, Comrade Kremjar, who is one of the bright exceptions in Maribor - his congregation, because he dared to say that some congregations have secededed from the city's congregations also because they knew that they could ignore certain duties, that they would not - for example - for some cultural institutions, because the law did not force them to give their share. Because of this - say - the Maribor Regional Library cannot have an act on the establishment, because it is simply not the municipalities that are gravitating, which were previously established in an integrated Maribor municipality, that they want to take these steps. But I came by more for one pathetic reason. Now they were - say - a week of Slovenian book, here we opened the Bologna Fair on Bologna. We all keep talking about the Slovenian book, about the Slovenian language, about Slovenian identity in the future Europe, and we all show from publishers to librarians, bookkeepers, writers, to the country what the state should do. I'd take the country here for protection. How many books does anyone read, how many books someone buys, how much does he have to do with the book - ergo and the library that is in his environment? This responsibility, however, is the responsibility of all Slovenians. If I don't read books, and if I don't give a fuck, the library is in our congregation, then I'm not just pointing at the minister and the state, but actually - all of us are responsible for one part of Slovenia, Slovenian words and Slovenian books. So I don't know if this article is just right to be punished, but it's going in some way to maintain one standard. In fact, we have the same thing in education or in kindergartens, and this part that the congregations carry out is prescribed by some law, at least the basic minimum. Because of this - although I did not fully understand your objection - I did not feel so far that these congregations, which were formed later and which do not have concerns, would have been treated in any way further unjustly; on the contrary, part of the municipalities and parts of the centres were left alone with their institutions, which are not only needed by their people; and I support both colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, that's actually the way it is. I can agree in part with Mr Sušnik's debate in that substantive work, but in fact this is another story and we cannot solve in another law a matter that is problematic in another; which means, of course, that if the issue of community funding is problematic; this Mr Sušnik is also problematic in this regard. Of course, this may be some problem and the problem must be solved where it is solved; it is said, in that law. This supplement speaks only of the regulation of certain things and therefore I think it is right to accept it as it is. Since we cannot, because something is not arranged or is not well arranged, of course, leave the disorder in this law as well as the possibility of someone interpreting each one in his own way, whether he will pay or not pay or not pay for it because the injustice is done I don't know when and so on. This causes confusion and causes what has actually happened recently that no one has financed cultural institutions. In the end, the country had to take over. The state is now again looking for options on how it will and who it will take that money to finance. In short, we have one completely untransparent assorted strange position; and this needs to be arranged and this is, of course, regulated in several different laws. One of these, which speaks only of this work, will be addressed in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, as regards the problem that Mr Sušnik is talking about and some others which are interfering with these areas. In every area, let the matter be settled. That is why I support, and if you look at the basic text of Article 49, of course this has been added even more precisely and it seems more appropriate and useful to me, of course, than the basic text of Article 49, and therefore I think it is appropriate to support it. Because even if we did not, we will not solve the problem that Mr Sušnik is talking about. That's why I think we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u149	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I would only support Mr. Sušnik here. I think that, I would say, the burden we impose or the way that this is supposed to be taken to settle small congregations is not the most appropriate. This article is also not the only one regulating relations between local communities. Previously, I was there at the amendment, when we talked about consensus, I said that with all these elementary minds, such as the appointment of a director, the composition of the board of the institution and so on, we are building all these relations and situations between the individual constituent municipalities, the contractual partners in this system. In many cases, there are also contradictions because, in a particular case of libraries, the directors of public institutions rely largely on the largest libraries. Often, with their left hand, they remove all those small congregations that have the same right or even the duty to regulate these matters. I think that there is no congregation that has no ambition to take a step forward in the fields of culture, education and other public matters. I think they have a lot of ambition here. However, if we do not provide them with equal conditions of cooperation - and here we go in the law with our left hand passed, it is difficult to ask these municipalities to cooperate or cooperate solely with their financial work. And in the end, if these little ones don't bow down and simply lay down by law that we take these funds away from them. I come from a congregation where we have a central library or a general library, which also governs two other congregations, and I am in favor of the way I said it. Thus, we must be surprised at all those who are involved in building public interest in the field of culture as partners. We all need to know what we contribute and how much we contribute. I don't think it's appropriate for us to incorporate into the law, I would say, such exclusive solutions, which in some way completely alienate the directors of institutions from those smaller peripheral parts, on the other hand, we are causing such a revolution. And at the end of those we have revolutionized, we take the means to ensure this standard. I don't think the consistency of the law is in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u151	I'm a colleague of niggers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u152	I must object to Mr Tank because, in fact, the directors are only one member in the library management chain and we are all responsible for the functioning of public education libraries. Under the current legislation, the law on local self-government and the financing of local self-government gave this to the municipality. It is the funds the municipal councils give them for their activities through financial plans that they manage and, if they are not well done, the municipal council has the opportunity to sanction their activities. But the directors, most of the directors of Slovenian libraries, did not have the opportunity to manage the funds because they did not come from a large number of municipalities. Not only for the purchase of library material, but also for the bare functioning of libraries. Even for -- what do I know -- the payment of electricity, material costs and so on. So you know, I mean, just give weight to one, and that to the director, I mean, it's not exactly the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u153	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u154	Respectable National Assembly. Mr Sušnik, Mr Tanko, I would like to say that the drafter for the second reading in the text and with the amendments has followed the concept approved in the draft law at first reading in this national assembly. This concept follows the good practice of North European and Western European countries, which have a well-developed general library - they do not have everything to understand - and, of course, also the actual practice of life in Slovenia itself, where general librarying has long been in basic municipal jurisdiction. We are aware that, in particular, smaller municipalities are, due to the diversity of needs in a difficult situation, financially taken, but we have considered that it is not appropriate to deviate from the basic concept, which burdens somehow by a harsh criterion on the head of the population. The truth is, there have been many reasons why I do not go to others, and we can make sure that every present new congregation, such as the smaller congregation, would be a rental facility and so on. However, we know from the Librarian Council that many citizens go to those nearby, including the central tenants that are available to them and that the users of librarian services are actually very involved and so on. We believe that the problem that you have rightly pointed out is to be asked elsewhere in the field of regulating the financing of local self - government or municipalities, so that the strategically long - held municipalities can guarantee their original obligations. I think that Article 12, paragraph 21, of the Law on Local Self-Government is precisely the one which imposes general libraryism and concern on the congregations here, just like this moment. I would also like to say that if we went to see numbers, for reasonable reasons, larger or large congregations, of course, they were paying significantly more money for the operation of libraries. And these libraries are at the same time, a little bit more difficult to reach here and there, also open to the citizens of the municipalities around them or many smaller ones. So I would ask Members to support this consistent solution in this law, consistent with your decision in the first reading, so that, of course, the question of the development of municipalities, their financing in more suitable places and in other more appropriate texts will then be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u155	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u156	Look, I've been here for six months, and I'm used to things that someone doesn't like to hear; just like you, Mr Secretary, you haven't answered my question. I specifically asked whether, in Article 20th of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, those 4% more than one category of municipalities or 8 other categories of municipalities were intended, as it says here: this is a document which I did not invent, which I received in the Lotus Notes computer network, which was produced by this parliamentary committee for monetary policy and finance, and on the basis of which was amended the Law on the Financing of Municipalities in Dictation, as I said, and which has enacted three categories of municipalities. In accordance with Article 20th of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, is anything intended for libraries, and at what level is this now intended to finance library activities? 'Cause I read it like that. How is Article 20a of the Law on Community Financing taken into account or taken into account in the Law on Librarianism? Just those two questions, all right, I'm pawned. I hope you understand me; if you didn't, you did now that I've said it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u157	My friend Trofenik wants a word and he's got one, and everyone else doesn't. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. I would have tried to answer my colleague as the author of this. In 4% or 8% of the supplement there is not even a tolar for libraries. The mandatory financing of libraries is at the base office, where in all the 1989 balance sheets on 1990, 1994 to 1995 the obligation was always transferred to the municipalities on a balance sheet basis. At the time we had changed funding 1989 to 1990, 1994 to 1995 and it was always for libraries - they are cultural institutions, but they were not meant when they were different supplements. 4% were other cultural institutions and some other activities. Not for the library, in any case. Librarians are at the primary level, since all 192 congregations, or earlier, 147, have as a result been cofounders of the former or have taken over the institution’s rights. It is true, however, that this dramatisation of the case is not appropriate that the failure to meet obligations on the part of certain municipalities’ funding, of course, constitutes savings, unjustifiable, and the allocation of these funds, in particular, to infrastructure and certain other purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I conclude this debate by Article 49. We will vote on the amendment under order number one. Comrade Sušnik, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u160	I have asked two questions to the Secretary of State and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u161	Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I apologize to the honourable Member that I have not responded directly to him. The first part of the answer was just made public. I have nothing to add to that. All I want to do is add that some of the larger congregations have paid for libraries from this kind of money, and that's what's been said before. But I haven't answered your question of sanctions, and that is why I apologize. To date, according to my behaviour regarding cultural institutions, libraries, general ones also belonging to them, the municipalities have not been subject to sanctions which allow for certain provisions of the Local Self-Government Act. Article 49, the amendment to it, is in fact trying to rely on the provisions of the above-mentioned Law on Local Self-Government and is more clear in this regard, relying on a system which is already known in legislation in Slovenia. In practical cases where the financing of general libraries has been interrupted by certain congregations, at least one has been mentioned by name today and allow me not to repeat the name of the congregation because I believe that this has happened not strategically, but by the way, we have gone into discussions. And I must say that, in the present cases, it has been possible to settle matters only by talking and trying to clean things up. Of course, that can't be a systemic answer, I'm aware. The systemic response is this: by the head of the population - an obligation, this is proposed by this special law and to regulate things in the financing of municipalities, which this law cannot and cannot regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u163	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will now decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 49 on the 19th page of the review. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 41 votes in favour of the new text of the article, 2 against. This is how the text is adopted. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] We have four amendments tabled on the 20th page of Article 50. Anybody want a word about them? Five, sorry. Five. [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide first. If adopted, the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant. I'm putting it to a vote. There are 52 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. There were 37 votes in favour. No one was against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Thus, the amendment under order number 2 became irrelevant. Therefore, we decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. This one's been ruled out with the fourth. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment under order number 3 received 32 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against one.]] He's been admitted. That's how the fourth is meaningless. And we can vote on the amendment under order number 5. We are voting on the amendment under order number 5. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. The amendment under order number 5 was voted 10, 26 against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 26.]] He didn't get the required majority. We are now voting on the whole article. There are 55 Members and Members present. 33 colleagues and colleagues voted in full for the text of the article, 4 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against four.]] The text has been adopted. We have one amendment to Article 52. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall! There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. It was 35, 1 was against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. Of the 54 colleagues and colleagues in total, 35 voted against for the text of the article. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the Article is fully adopted. We also have one amendment to Article 53. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm putting him to the vote. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 53. There are 54 Members and Members present. There were 35 votes in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We vote on the text of Article 53 in its entirety. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-one of them spoke for the text, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. On page 22 of the review we have an amendment to Article 55. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 55 on the 22nd page of our review. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment was opposed to 38, no one objected. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the full text of the article. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. 35 Members and Members voted in full for the text of Article 55. No one objected to him. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a proposal for a new 60. Anybody want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u164	This article is to some extent understandable, but it is not consistent, of course, with other solutions where it is expected that provisions, let's say for, you will look at the article back, from that article just prepare within six months. From this point of view, I would call on the Government to tell why this article came only now and why Izuma does not force it at the same time to harmonise its founding acts and provisions with the text of this law. Otherwise, I'd say we got in the last round served some story that's, I'll say, ten years old and more.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u166	Your Honor! As a proposal, we would suggest that the honourable assembly adopt this amendment. At the same time, we commit ourselves to eliminating this apparent deficiency until the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Closing the debate and making a proposal for a new word? [[...]] A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u168	At this point, I would like to point out the direction in which these solutions will be made. Otherwise, I think it's more prudent to oppose it than it is not. For a simple reason, because we have said a few minutes ago in some way how to - let's say the information system for school libraries is provided by someone else, and in this case this amendment by the government is not even aligned with that earlier I think it is worth clarifying and reconsidering. I apologize for just looking at these things and it wasn't on the board. If it were on a committee, it would certainly not have been accepted in such a text, at least one would have been added to that one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u169	What is your position, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The position is such that we will specify the missing provisions roughly in the same direction as for NUK. This means that the deadline will be set and will be necessary. For the NUK, this is already stated in Article 60, so that I would ask the Member whether this is satisfactory or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u171	Okay. A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u172	These things are very small, but on this basis, I'll say, a good part of this library activity. Will this also apply to school libraries?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u173	Mr. Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u174	The answer can be very short - yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u175	The answer is yes. A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u176	Then it means that the article that talks about school libraries will have to be amended. Because this system is more complex than the school libraries can provide at this point. Is the evaluation made, I shall say, the consequences associated with the professional staff, the finances and the relevant service?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u177	My friend Peterle!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have a question for the government. In view of the fact that [[...]] [[It's not understandable, the president's calming down the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u179	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u180	through the law determines the carrier of a business, or this, I would say - on what basis this is determined through the law. [[...]] Whether this is a general practice in this area or, I don't know, I don't remember any similar amendments or articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u181	Do you want to answer? Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u182	Your Honor! In Slovenia, there are two load-bearing institutions for the library system, covering much more than just general libraries, which have been discussed today. It covers a very large number of schools, from the lowest to the highest levels, special ones. One institution, undoubtedly national, is, of course, the National and University Library, which is dealt with separately by this law, thus replacing the need to regulate the NUK by a separate law. Another such institution, which has actually been developing and working in Slovenia in the last 15 years, is the business of the information backbone, which connects all libraries into one system, and this institution is mentioned here. In fact, in the transitional provisions, we only recognise the reality in the transitional provisions. Behind this institute is 15 years of professional work to develop a system that is comparable in Europe to a similar system called Pika in the Netherlands, or we do not see such large ones at national level blindly. Of course, you will decide whether this should be recorded in the transitional provisions of the law, such as the national function with the name of the National and University Library, or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u183	Three reports. First a colleague of Shirtz, then a colleague of Kremjar and then a colleague of Peterle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u184	I would like to point out that, as far as we support the so-called amendment to the new article 60a as proposed, it is then specifically addressed to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, then uniformed and reduced the entire information activity to be carried out by the Information Service of the Institute of Izum in Maribor for the entire library system. We know that a quarter or most of the information service is performed by Izum, and education has partly built its system. Thus written an amendment means that the entire information activity in the field of the library system is carried out solely by Izum. That's the lapsus, I'm guessing a lapsus you probably haven't even noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u185	A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. So it could be, but it might not be a lapsus. I would support such an amendment as this, because if the Izum does this - and certainly does as the Secretary of State has said - of course, it has been doing this for 15 years, of course then it is necessary to admit to this invention that it is doing so and that it can do so. Of course, if he does not do some work, he will probably not do it in the future, or he will be given the opportunity to do so. In short, if such an amendment is adopted, such an amendment, as it is written, does not prejudge anything, but just essentially points to something that is, and sanctions it in a positive sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u187	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Now, if, as the Secretary of State has explained, there is no problem in terms of competition. If he's the best and the only one, then he's going to take over this business anyway, and I think it's a little bit odd that the carrier's law determines. And I imagine what that would look like in other areas, too, with the amendment of the government. It is not even in the basic solution to this matter, and I am surprised that the government has seen the need for this type of determination of the carrier of this business. So I can trust the Secretary, and I don't know why I wouldn't, but at the same time I'd rather see that we're here representing the rules of the game, not going to trust that this is the best one. I've already heard good references to this house, but I just don't think it's the best thing for our house, so we can rule out the origin of a business carrier by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u189	Representatives of the government, did you want a word? Response to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I thank you for these initiatives. In fact, there are transitional provisions. This is Article 60a in a transitional provision and I assure you that the education of the parallel system does not build information. That means he's using Cobiss right now. The invention is a public institution set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and has the possibility, by means of an act establishing it, to define and adapt its activities at any time. However, the fact is that this article lacks a time frame within which to do so and I guarantee that we will respect this period and activities and correct it until the third reading. At the moment, however, transitional provisions are simple to legislate the existing situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u191	Good. Dr. Gaber's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. I personally have some problems with this attempt to legalise this institution as the only possible institution in this area. I'm asking where exactly is the need for us to legalize it now. I would like to point out that he's been doing that part of the job he's doing for years, and that's why you had to have or have had to have this country somewhere. This foundation is likely to be good enough for the future as regards the legal framework. The introduction of this institution into this law means that other options, as spoke of by colleague Peterle, are excluded at the level of the law. This area, however, is not so immobile, so rigid that it would be healthy to do so. I would not draw any other comparisons, but I still vividly recall the times in which some believed that Slovenia would build its software for very large areas. They just happened to be competing, which is what we know today, with Microsoft. It kind of looked disproportionate. We may find providers here that will be cheaper, more efficient in five years, in four years, able to perform such operations. Why do we have to write this down in law? I don't have a problem. Let him do what he does well. Therefore, I suppose this country also has a legal basis at this point. So let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u193	Does anyone want to explain their position? Otherwise, we'll vote. A colleague of school, then a colleague of Majnik's and a colleague of Moga's. And a colleague of Shirtz's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u194	If we returned, of course, for illustration in the text of the law back, then we would see that this was complemented in fact unnecessary, because the law says what this library information service is and then the next article is the one talking about the founder of this service, and, I will say, even for my concept of extremely unusually written and I wondered what it really means. It reads: "If a library information service establishes a state, it exercises the founding rights of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." I understood it as an open opportunity, and that's why I didn't trouble myself. And I think it's a good thing. From this point of view, I'd say an awkward diction if it did, but that's what it is. Therefore, there is no need for any transitional and final provisions, where this is destroyed and it is said that this is because it is not even for a period of six months, when, perhaps, it has changed its mind on this 40th article, nor for a longer period of reflection. But I suppose this will happen in a way, and it would make more sense if this 40th article were to say that within six months the government was looking for the appropriate solution in Article 40. But if you take it, like it's done now, then of course it means the law of some monopoly, in fact, I'll say, depending on some system. You will remember that it was never possible to standardize the costs incurred in unit processing and that, with the help of the former Ministry of Science at some point in time, Izum shut down the entire system for general educational libraries and tried to force some money over it, but for this he had no basis. This, I will say, the adoption of the monopoly is dangerous and, after all this discussion, it seems to me that, despite everything, it is more wise for Members to reject this provision at this point. However, it will still be possible in the transitional and final provisions if it turns out that any other article in need of these temporary solutions is to "point out" in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. First my colleague Majnik, then my colleague Moga and Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I was hoping that this amendment really wasn't a mistake, but it was a conscious decision. More than 200 libraries are included in the single library-information system in Slovenia, including the general educational library, all libraries in universities, universities, national library and a large number of special libraries include primary school libraries and secondary schools. If we have written down in the law what are the competences of the national library and recorded what are the competences of the national information service, we have now written in the transitional provisions who is taking over the tasks of the national library and who is taking over the tasks of the information service, and we have also written down who will take over the university tasks. If we are now opening a debate here, whether this is unfair competition against anyone, then we must also open a debate on who will be acting as the national library. The National Library has a really long tradition, the invention has a shorter tradition, a shorter history, but the invention is linked to a complex system of library-information activities. And this isn't about choice between competition, one way or another, but it's about one system that's been built for 15 years. And that is when Slovenia decided to go to WAX computers and to service by the Institute of Information Sciences, which then covered the whole area of Yugoslavia, but the state of Slovenia decided to support this segment for libraries. Later, when Izum lost influence in Yugoslavia, he focused mainly on the construction of this spine and this road. And the libraries depend on this information system. I said on Friday that this is a system that Slovenians can be proud of. And it's a system that we could sell abroad, but we're ashamed of it, and somehow we're afraid of letting go of some competition. In some matters of national importance, it is almost very difficult to talk about any competition. And the invention is one of those institutions where it's hard to talk about competition. We had this debate in libraries 20 years ago when we decided whether we would go to closed systems inside one library and equip them with personal computers and networks or build a single system. And in Slovenia, the great advantage is that we have a single system, that every schoolboy in primary school and every pensioner at home or every student in NUK can watch at the same time where they will get a certain book with a specific address, in which the library is free and where they can rent it. This is the system that allows us to make Slovenia at least very much the same in this area. There is no difference between the developed and the underdeveloped. It's just a computer and a phone connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u197	I propose that we close this debate. You have a replica, Comrade Peterle. Then he's got a colleague, Peterle, and then he's got a colleague, Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u198	I would like to rephrase or explain that, as far as I am concerned, I did not question the role of Izum and supported him several times in various functions. I think I know what this is all about. But I'm a problem with this way of putting it through the law. It's already a fact that obviously it can't be otherwise, but I don't think marriage is the place to put it that way. I also speak as President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u199	My colleague Mogo. A colleague of Mogue, then a colleague of Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u200	I'm going to be very brief because people have already said what I meant. First of all, I support what the government is proposing, and I also intend to support it in this supplement. I fully agree with Lydia and with my colleague Peterlet, who has also said that he is a bit surprised by the way these institutions are introduced into law. We have debated and spoken for an extremely long time on the committee itself, and if you think about it, what should be the heart, but the substance of the library material, that is, the national. It's basically set up here with three articles. This is from the 31st, 33rd, which says it is established by the State, and 60th. The exact same text as in here defines the tasks and competences of the National Library, carried out by the National and University Library in Ljubljana, which must harmonise its acts and so on. So, with this law, we deal with a nationalist with three short articles, and no one thinks of discussing it. And it seems to me that these runaway things that run us have at least been convinced by the former Minister Gaber, who did this, the former Minister of Education, that we have also landed on these solutions and taken them as our own. It seems to me that these concerns raised here in the debate have been sufficiently complemented by the government and it seems to me that if the National-University Library was subject to such arguments, similar arguments should also apply to the institute defined in this Supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u201	She's Shirtz's colleague. This is the last debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u202	I just want to point out some misunderstanding. In this article, we are not dealing with the issue of better, worse or more generally on the functioning of the Inventory. Not at all. In doing so, we do not, nor do we, make analogys with the NUK in the transitional provisions. I would ask the government or the representative of the Ministry of Education in particular, once again. If we vote for such an amendment, then it means, if we literally read it, that all information authority in the field of librarianship, the Institute of Information Sciences in Maribor is said to be the school, university, general, central and other libraries. But we know it isn't. Because the invention carries out part of the activity, indeed, the majority, almost 80%. But 20 percent, Mr Secretary of State, is still doing someone else, as Mr. Gaber has already said. And if we vote for this amendment, it means that we take over those tasks of information activity within the school system, which someone else has been doing for so many years and so many years. In short, let's pull one action out of another. If this is your intention, then you will answer with yes, if it isn't, but with no, and I would like to hear it before we finish or possibly vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u203	First of all, Comrade Kremjar, in the end, I'd like to ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Look. Nobody wants to trouble anything, neither do I. But just as my colleague Moze has already said, we could discuss other things in a similar way and look for some other things that someone else is doing, and of course we are all quite clear that this will basically be done by NUK, and so written. That's right. Nobody bothers with that. The same is true in this case and why, of course, now the question that does not prejudge anything and which, of course, does not prevent anything, does not give anyone additional activities like this. We can't have double criteria. I really don't. And that's why I think the government probably came from this point of view when it wrote it down. You know, we're very quick when it comes to taking a matter on a strange path and in the final stage, reaching, reluctant or willing to let some matter step up and destroy some of the work that's already been put to good use. I don't think that's what anyone wants, but it can happen. That is why I propose, of course, that if something else has to be added, as has been said, this can probably be done, but not to rule out such a doctrine as the government has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u205	I see that colleagues and colleagues continue to be reported. It's 3:00 in the 18th. Do you want to at least end this vote or end the session? We're done. I suggest we end this decision. He asked his colleague Jakič for a word. You're giving up your buddy Jakič. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Shirtz, would you like to hear the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u206	My answer will be as brief as possible. Two ways. With this amendment, we have tried to achieve about the same situation as with the national. There is a second answer; the ministry will never, ever, ever convince us of meaningful competition. And the country needs a spine. In the event that other forms of organisation are shown to be possible and better, the government has always the possibility of correcting this at any time by means of an Izum-based act. In this case, however, in the transitional provisions, we were only trying to ensure a smooth forward operation. It was the only intention, no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u207	Buddy Wolf first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u208	Given the implementation of the Secretary of State, of course, the difference is - the intention was clear. But if you read paragraphs 40 and 41, and what bothers me, of course, here I am joining the opinion of my colleague Gabra, it says, "if the library information system establishes a state" - and we have it established; it also says in article 41, last paragraph, that the government will then determine by the founding act, but if so decided. It is unusual that this dictatorship is already mentioned by this institution in transitional provisions, because this way we are doing some prejudices. Let's leave it, it's already established, but we can't put it in legal matter now, because if it happens to be different because of rationality, efficiency and something else, the law will have to be changed. Yeah, that's how I understand the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Comrade Wolf. Comrade Skolcz, then colleague Jakič. Excuse me? I see there's still a lot of reports. I propose that because of the obligations they have, clearly in line with the agreement, here Members, we are not now trying to conclude discussions quickly at all costs - five other colleagues have been reported. We'll continue the debate tomorrow at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u210	Because we're inconclusive.
