ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! It's 10:08. I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups, or their deputies, and all the colleagues and colleagues who are in the offices or near the hall to join us to find out, however, the conclusion that we will first identify in a few minutes. Dear colleagues, Members and Members, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Victory Jelinčič, Bogdan Barovič, Zoran Gračner, Dusan Vučko, Feri Horvat, Milan Kopuzar, Sašo Peče, Janko Weber, Villa Trophynik, Leopold Grošelj, Janez Janša, France Cukjat, Bogomir Zamernik, Franc Čebulj, Anton Partljič, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Jožef Kavtičnik, Jožef Špindler from 12.00 p.m., Bogomir Vnučec, Jaša Zlobec Lukič, Andrej Gerenčer from 10.50 to 12.00, Alojz Peterle, Alojz Sok, Ivan Kebric, Majda Zupan, Ivan Mamić from 12.30 p.mić from 12.30 p. In addition, let me say that in these pre-festive days there are a lot of commitments and a lot of events at which they are or are somehow obliged to be. It is, for example, a consultation of the historical society in Brežica, where some of our Members are, and so on. So this list is a little longer today; I guess that's why. Ladies and gentlemen! Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. Put your cards in. We're detecting a presence. Please, if you can press "quorum" or some other key. If I counted it right, there's over 44 of us. There's got to be enough of us in the gym. Some of them are still here, so now I'm going to consider this a technical error. Let me also point out that our experts, under the leadership of Mr Jermol, checked all these devices by midnight yesterday and made no attempts and never once did what happened yesterday afternoon. So we simply can't explain why these problems occurred yesterday in the vote. I hope this doesn't happen again. But I'm asking you to understand in case it happens. Now, I'm asking you to really start to determine the conjunctivities. We're voting. Please press "quorum" if possible. It's not gonna work without a card. I note that 52 Members and Members are present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. I invited representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the meeting, which I welcome very much. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 10th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits. The assembly will then move on to the 12th item, this is a proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union to carry out regulated professional or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia, and then on a regular basis. So I'm going to move on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on the protection of the elderly and the family benefits. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I ask representatives of the Government whether they want a word. Please. Secretary of State, Mrs. Kovšca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, President, welcome! I'd like to say a few words at the time of the marriage. The rights governed by the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits are only part of the measures of the entire family policy, which has been set up in our country by a number of other policies: housing, school, health and social. The binding Article is a resolution on the basis of the formulation of family policy. This is based on a global family policy based on the idea of the country's social role and the fact that the country is obliged to provide material assistance to families, especially families with children and those families that protect children in need of special care and protection. The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits has been under review since the beginning of 1999 and has been supplemented several times by various quality suggestions. The new text of the second reading amendment law also provides some different systemic solutions which the government considers justified, both in terms of the policy of the State to the family and in terms of the interests of the beneficiaries. Thus, the new text of the law brings the following proposals and solutions as compared to the existing one. Right to paternity leave for 90 days, of which 15 days with a refund and 75 days with a payment of contributions. It increases and prolongs the leave for care and child protection by adding new rights to the next beneficiaries for two or more live births, by already two or more children up to the age of 8 years of age for 30, 60 or 90 days, for the birth of a child with disabilities in physical and mental development and at the birth of an infant, thus covering approximately 4 thousand of the population per year. It introduces adoption leave, for 150 or 120 days, according to the age of the child. It introduces the right to pay contributions to mothers who decide to work part-time and pay them full-time contributions for children up to the age of 3. The rules on the implementation of active employment policy measures will also subsidise the opening of new jobs for unemployed persons caring for one or more children under the age of 15. The nominal amount for the parental allowance shall be increased from 23,000 to 35,000 SIT. The nominal amount of assistance for the birth of a child increases from 30,000 to 50,000 SIT. By 10% he raises the bill the height of the child supplement for children living in single-parent families. 20% for children not enrolled in kindergarten. He's re-introducing a big family allowance. It nominally increases the amount of the child care and care allowance, from 13,000 to 18,000 SIT. It introduces a new right of partial payment for lost income for parents who terminate the working relationship for the protection of the child with the most serious impact that needs special care and protection at the level of the minimum wage. Parental rights are made new from parental protection insurance. All rights under the new law are decided by social work centres. Thus, the Government proposes a series of new rights and measures that are complementary to the present, including for Europe the high right to parental benefits and family benefits, and thus implements that part of the resolution on the basis of family policy in the Republic of Slovenia concerning the material situation of families. By 2005, when the beneficiaries are finally able to exercise all rights, the implementation of the law will have to be provided with a budget of 99 billion tolars, which means an additional 13 billion tolars compared to the year 2000 at 2001 prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, Madam Secretary of State Alenka Kovšca! The bill, as we have today on the table, was considered by the Committee as a parent committee for the family, work, social policy and persons with disabilities at its 7th regular session. The introductory explanation of the bill and its contents was given to the members of the committee by Minister Vladimir Dimovski and also Mrs State Secretary Alenka Kovšca, in the same content as you had just heard, so I would not repeat it. In addition to the written opinion of the secretariat, the members of the Committee also took note of its oral updates, which concluded in their opinion that the applicant had taken into account the views and conclusions adopted after the first reading of the draft law. The Secretariat has drawn up specific comments on Title 6 of Chapter 53 to Articles 58, 114, 117, 118, 119, 123 and 124 of the Act. Following the meeting, the members of the Committee identified themselves in their constructive approach to work to the amendments tabled: they supported a number of amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as follows in the review of the amendments you have on the bench, of 19.6.2001. They also received the support of the amendment of drafters Janez Drobnik and Francet Tsukjat to Articles 20 and 67. The members of the committee did not support the amendment of the Government to the 26th Article, the amendment of drafter Janez Drobnič and Francet Cukjati by 18, 26, 41, 69 and the amendment for the new 70th Article and the amendments to the 80th, 84th, 117th and 119th Articles. However, with the support of the amendments of the governments, amendments to Articles 47 and 88 have become irrelevant for the decision-making of the Committee. In the course of the consideration of the amendments, the withdrawal of the amendments was also announced, namely, the Government to Article 105 and the amendments of Stanislav Brenčič to Article 70, Article 117, Article 121 and Article 122. As part of the definition of individual amendments and the drafting of new ones, the members of the Committee also adopted an amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 47 and an amendment to Article 84. All these decisions of the Committee are, in fact, misled in the review of the amendments, so please, fellow Members and fellow Members, to follow the course of the meeting through the review of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't have any applications, so I don't know. Yeah, something's gonna happen. Mr. Vizjak. Then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Social Democratic Party, we will be pleased to support this proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits in other readings and, of course, we will also support all those amendments that build on solutions and also coordinate the amounts arising from rights. However, it is important to note here that two of the key problems in these amendments are, above all, and that is why we have applied for the word. First, a rather pressing problem is that the government, through the amendment, deletes from the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act the right to grant parental employment subsidies. It follows from the Government's opening statement that the rights to a parental employment grant will be regulated by the Rules of Procedure on Active Employment Policy. Of course, I agree that it is logical that all measures of active employment policy, or all measures promoting employment, fall within one provision, but I believe that it makes the sub-legislative provision insufficient in the face of such a pressing problem. This is especially due to the fact that certain measures of active employment policy are already legal, and I am thinking mainly of Article 48a of the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, where it refers to refunds on employers for social insurance contributions. We believe that parental employment subsidies are such a powerful instrument and such an important instrument that promotes the employment of unemployed parents with young children to be part of this law. And only when a different solution is envisaged will these provisions be removed from the law. In short, in the Social Democratic Party, we object to the deletion of the right to a subsidy for the employment of parents under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. We believe that this is an important instrument that affects a very pressing problem in the area of unemployment, namely the unemployment of young parents, says parents with young children. It follows from the logic of employers that employers are reluctant to decide on the employment of parents with young children, especially because these parents are more often absent from work than others due to caregiving and caring for young children. We are convinced that we need instruments in the form of subsidies to encourage the employment of unemployed parents with young children. We estimate that the rights to subsidies in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act are adequately resolved and that it is absolutely unnecessary to delete the provisions on parental employment subsidies from this Act. We believe that when another law is drafted, which will fully and systematically regulate active employment policies and all incentives for employment in one place, it is possible to talk about the transfer of these subsidies from this law to another law. We cannot agree, however, that we are now deleting this from this proposal, but at the same time we are not immediately replacing these subsidies in another regulation and in another way. This, in particular, is because there are no sufficient funds or items in the adopted budget for 2001, which would guarantee these rights to a subsidy for the employment of parents. In short, the set of amendments relating to the deletion of subsidies is opposed and we will vote against it. However, another key issue is the revalorisation of the amounts of all aid, subsidies and compensation resulting from this law. We estimate that the amounts have been raised by around 15% to 20%, and we need to know that the law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure in mid-1998. We are now in the middle of 2001, which means that three years have passed since the postponement of the law into the parliamentary procedure. We are convinced, however, that the price of living needs is increasing significantly, as are the amounts proposed to revalue these amounts, these compensations and aids. That's why we think these amounts are too low. At the same time, we see that all these articles are amended, which set out the amounts that will be possible to amend the amounts also in the third reading. Therefore, we will also make appropriate amendments based on the calculation of the consumer price index, which will revalue the amounts of the basic amounts in line with the rising prices of living needs. In short, in the Social Democratic Party we will support the solutions and amendments tabled by our Members and some amendments from the government. However, we will not support the amendments of the government relating to the deletion of the parental employment subsidy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Petty Officer, Nova Slovenija. Then Mr. Germić, Mr. Brenčič, Mrs. Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	First of all, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Have a nice day! Allow me to speak a few words, a comment on the proposed law on parental protection and family benefits in the new reading. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the same as in the Social Democratic Party, as a colleague stated that we have decided to put this law into consideration. The proposed law is a good starting point. However, it is not yet composed in such a way as to regulate best parental protection and family relations, in a way that would really implement the resolution on the formulation of a fundamental policy or the formulation of a family policy in Slovenia, which was adopted in 1993. We have therefore also tabled a series of amendments to improve this text. Indeed, this law introduces some new instruments that will make family policy more coherent, more pleasant, more appropriate in Slovenia. This isn't some new invention in our country. This proposal and the law itself are also based on other documents, either the United Nations or, above all, the General Declaration on Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights. It is right around this last pact on economic and social rights that an intensive debate is currently taking place in Slovenia. I would also mention the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we have often cited when adopting the OBMP law and, of course, with a view to implementing a decent family policy and protecting children. I hope, of course, that this time other parties will also respect the Convention, so that it will not be as Minister Keber mentioned that declarations and conventions, although we have signed them, stick to them or not, are a matter of our judgment. Such statements are, in my opinion, unworthy. After all, our constitution also requires that the country protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this. Despite some attempts to relativize the importance of the family we have been tracking, the family remains a fundamental institution of human life. Now I would like to touch on some of the solutions contained in the law. In particular, the law contains economic and fiscal benefits and instruments. Of course, for a comprehensive family policy, this law is not enough, and there will be a number of changes to this law, including in the Income Act, and then in employment, as already mentioned, in the housing economy and in the organisation of public and public services, either in health, housing policy and elsewhere, not to mention. Well, then let's go to the individual instruments that are in marriage. I will also comment on them in the context of the amendments tabled by the Government. In Novi Slovenija, we re-emphasize or re-emphasize the importance of the universal child allowance. The universal child allowance on the basis of justice, but not all the same, makes it possible to take into account the socio-economic situation of the family. This is another element of regulation, the principle or principle of solidarity. So we stress the principle of fairness and the principle of solidarity. Why are we further advocating a universal children’s allowance? Because we have looked at a coalition contract that expects a change in income and relief. By interfering with this law, it is even more important that we implement this principle than we represent in New Slovenia. A large family allowance is a new instrument. It also has a symbolic meaning, not just economic significance. It also means social recognition for those parents who decide for more children. And I think it's also the right time for us to introduce him, because there are a lot of families with us that are even ridiculed. Parental leave or maternity leave, we are talking about parental leave between political parties, has already reached consensus in the previous National Assembly, that the holiday should last 305 days. The government is reintroducing the length of leave 260 days, so we are going to go lower than the consensus has already been put in place. Why do we not further agree here to shorten this? Because it is expected in the Labour Relations Act to be unable to use regular leave. As a result, this would mean that we will go to further reductions in parental leave at the time of the birth of the child, which we now have. If they benefit from a parental allowance, fathers will receive only 15 days at the beginning. For the remaining days, only health insurance or insurance. If we are to exercise a decent fatherly responsibility, I think it is necessary that the instrument be set up in such a way that it can also be used. But it's not like he's gonna stay as a marriage declaration. Because otherwise, I doubt that my parents will be able to use it. Especially in weaker standing families, they simply won't be able to afford it. I will not mention the subsidy for the employment of parents, because colleague Vizjak is proud and very extensive and precise in front of me. Maybe that's all. This instrument is very important in terms of positive discrimination and because it is also neutral with the employer. So he's not the type to commit the employer to anything. Obligations are primarily in the country. Its effect on both parents and employers is therefore favourable. The reconciliation of benefits will only take place once a year. In view of inflation and price growth, the proposal for double coordination should be considered and supported annually. Really. Especially since there are no signs that inflation will stop or even decrease. Accounting and data collection have been substantially complemented by the government, which we welcome. It is likely that citizens will be relatively well described. If the aim is not to duplicate or abuse rights, that is a good purpose. The entry into force of certain rights is moving in 2003, 2004 or even 2005. According to our little Balkan practice, it is very likely that when the time comes for this law to enter into force, we will quickly find a reason that there is no money, that there is no will, that technical conditions are not such as to allow enforcement, and we will again demand or enforce the transfer of this right. The law on safe and healthy work has already done this to us. We have passed a law that is very good, it introduces high standards - this has been confirmed by our colleagues from other countries - but what I have mentioned has happened: the postponement of enforcement. Thus, if we have most of such provisions, the law remains as a general declaration - it is beautifully written, citizens read it, but if they look at the transitional and final provisions, they cannot do much to help themselves with it because most of the rights are exercised so late. In addition, some compensations or transfers are fixed and, depending on inflation, we can imagine what this will mean in four or five years when that instrument or right actually comes into force. So much for this law. We will support all those instruments and measures that will constitute a coherent family policy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We also view the law on parental protection and family benefits as one of the most important laws in the parliamentary group of liberal democracy, as it governs a very important part of social life. We believe that the Government's proposals in the form of amendments in the second reading have taken into account the views and proposals in the first reading and, as has already been said, introduce very important new instruments that would be very satisfactory and well regulated in the area of parental protection and family policy. We also assess that in the amendments tabled, the applicant has followed very well the European directives governing this area. In deciding on individual amendments, we will support the amendments tabled by the Government, paying particular attention to the amendments that exclude from this law the chapter of the 'parent employment grant' for a simple reason: it is impossible to treat the area of employment discriminatoryly in individual laws. We estimate that the Government's proposal, which in the specific rules on active employment policy, systematically regulates this whole area, since otherwise some could be in a privileged or other less privileged or different position. Because in employment policy, it is necessary to address all those groups whose employment is problematic or difficult. At the same time, we will support an amendment of the government that the Committee has not supported. So, the government's amendment to the 26th Article, which speaks of the duration of the leave for care and the protection of the child. At the same time, we will not support the two amendments supported by the committee. So it's about the amendment of the candidates Janez Drobnik and Frances Tsukjati. This is an amendment to Article 20, which refers to the father's right to maternity leave and to the amendment to Article 67, which deals with child support. Why don't we support the first amendment? Because we believe that the proposed solution in this amendment interferes with the law on health and health insurance rights. However, we will not support the amendment to Article 67 because we believe that a solution is allowed for parents to choose between a package or financial assistance, good and left to parents, at birth, so that they can decide for themselves. Finally, I would just like to point out that we are assessing that the amendments of the government have very well presented the content regulated by this law and that we will, of course, act in the parliamentary group as presented in my presentation in support of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič, SLS + SKD has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you so much again, and thank you all for saying good-bye again! Well, through the consideration of the proposal of the Parental Protection Act and on family benefits, both through the first hearing, then a second reading hearing and through a discussion that was present on the parent working body at the time of the drafting of the law for today's decision was so much said that in the SLS + SKD Group, we have no intention of having some long discussions. We accept the bill, together with the amendments adopted by the committee, in the SLS + SKD Group as a good one, including the amendments that this proposal introduces or introduces. It is true that the scope of, say, paternity paid leave, as well as the extent of leave for care and protection of the child, is slightly reduced on the basis of the first reading proposal, but some other measures, such as the possibility of using a much longer paternity leave, are somewhat reduced on the basis of the first reading proposal, are taken by the State, while the payment of work-based contributions is taken by the State, as well as by mothers, for the possibility or use of reduced working time and for the new remuneration of parents, both in the case of single-parent families and multiple-child families, and, lastly, additional financial incentives or support for parents in the event of protecting and raising children after the end of their leave for care and home protection, and are not included in organised childcare, but in the sent-out group of the Slovenian People's Party, we need to be aware of the importance and necessity of as comprehensive treatment and support of family policy as possible, if we do not want to become more people than the future. However, we are also aware of the reality and financial capacity of the country, which, in addition to measures in favour of the family, which, after all, are fairly well brought about by this proposal for a law, must also take care of all other public infrastructure related to the family and children. As in this case, for example, the setting-up of an urgently needed pediatric clinic or the establishment of good health care for the mother and the child before giving birth and so much more after the birth of the child. It is in this sense that we also support the starting point of parental income according to the proposed law, which also preserves the pre-appropriation of family property and income and takes into account the necessary reality of the new economic order, which cannot, in relation to employers and employees, which certainly includes many young women and mothers and thus their employability, over-derogate us from comparable European economies. Although the introduction of some new incentives and family benefits following the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been extended in our opinion for a little too long or too long, taking into account the real situation and financial needs and the capacity of the country we accept. The SLS + SKD Group supports the amendments of the government and, of course, all those amendments that improve the content and purpose of the law in the context of the options and current state of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Danica Simšić has the word, the combined list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, which is before us today in the second reading. However, it probably does not make any particular sense to list once again all the rights or opportunities it brings, upgrades and also new justifications for the law, as this was done very precisely, clearly and at the same time by the State Secretary, Mrs Kovšac and before me also by some colleagues on behalf of other parliamentary groups. However, let me remind you that the basis for the modern concept of family policy was defined in the resolution on the basis of the family policy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted by Parliament in July 1993 and in this resolution stated that family policy in our country is based on the inclusion of the entire population or on the orientation towards all families, taking into account the plurality of all the different forms of family and the different needs arising from these various forms of family. Even in respect for the autonomy of families and each individual in this family, as well as for the protection of children's rights, both within the family and in society and giving priority to the quality of life of children, to promoting equal opportunities for both sexes and to the partial contribution of society to the cost of maintenance of children, if I only mention some segments. And these definitions have their own application in this bill that we have before us. Of all the definitions, it may still be the most remote on the universal child allowance, but in the UK Group of Social Democrats we agree with the proposer that in the current situation it is definitely more necessary and more appropriate to provide a selective child allowance that gives more children from socially weaker families, fewer children from socially more stable families, and so far nothing to all those children where income per family member is equal to or above the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, the numbers show that the children’s allowance, however, receives the vast majority of all children in our country, out of 520,000, this child supplement receives 420,000 children. As far as universal rights are concerned, in the parliamentary group we support the preservation of the only universal right so far in the child protection system, this is assistance at the birth of a child. We support that option, which provides parents with a free choice between the cash amount, which will be after the new $50,000, and the possibility of equipment or, as we used to say, the so-called package for the newborn. With regard to parental leave and its various forms, we believe that the length, conditionally or on working terms, of maternity leave should be maintained at the current level, i.e. for a total duration of 365 days, which are, of course, divided into different forms and periods. We are convinced that the extension of this right, which is, in fact, the most pleasant in all of Europe already, if we take both into account, is the length of one year and 100% of the remuneration for the whole year, and this does not make sense to amend or extend these provisions, since it would actually make it difficult for mothers to return to work or complicate their return to the labour market. Therefore, under Article 26, we will support the Government's amendment and we will not support the amendment that has received support in the home labour system, which would actually extend this leave for the care and protection of the child for a further three months. Well, if I can get back to the children's allowance for a moment. We support a 10% increase in child allowances for children in single parent or single parent families. We also support an additional 20% increase in the child supplement for preschool children who are not in kindergarten. Well, here it is worth stressing that the proposed solution is significantly beyond the definition set out in the resolution, which states that the allowance for the protection and upbringing of children not in kindergarten will be a new form of monetary benefit for those children from 11 months to 3 years of age who are not included in kindergarten or other socially organised and subsidised forms of education and protection and will be introduced gradually. The supplement introduced in this law will apply to all children who are not included in kindergarten, until entry into school and not just until the third year, which is of course particularly eloquent. Of course, we also support the special introduction of a new non-transferable right for fathers, a so-called 90-day paternity leave, including that provision that the father must spend fifteen days of this leave at a time when the mother is also on maternity leave. Well, in doing so, of course, we hope that the use of this right will rise faster than the percentage of those fathers who have exercised the legal right to spend 260 days of maternity leave and child protection over the past 20 years. Slovenia is one of the few countries that has had this right for so long. But this percentage has always moved there between a good half percent and not a full percent, which, of course, places us in those countries where father's leave, if we can call it, is used in the smallest possible percentage. Well, there are, of course, a number of other good solutions in the proposal that we would not be particularly particular about now and that we will also support. We also believe that the subsidies for the employment of parents will be properly, appropriately and well defined in the rules of active employment policy. At the end of the day, this increased concern for children and different types of families may be displayed and illustrated in numbers. If we have dedicated 1.2 per cent of gross social product to this area 10 years ago, if we can conditionally call it child protection, this amount is already 1.9 gross social product this year and may still be slightly higher next year. However, when the marriage is in effect, it is likely to be even more important. As it is said, a real 60% increase in the share of gross social product for this purpose is eloquent enough and shows that caring for the child and family in this country is not a letter on paper, but that it is significant progress. As it is said, we will support the amendment of the government in the Group of Members and some others, which I will also mention in particular if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Any of the other MPs? [[No one else.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. Here, I can see in my eye that we're not concluding. The leaders of the parliamentary groups should provide two-thirds of the participation in the meeting. If I look around the hall, I see it's not like that. So I'm afraid the first procedural decision now on the table will be in trouble. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, it discuss and vote jointly on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please! I note that 42 Members and Members are present and that we are not in agreement. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are near the hall to join us in trying again to vote on this procedural decision. Otherwise, we're going to go to the detection another time, and then, of course, the interruption, then again and so on. Do we wait a minute or do we go to another? [[...]] Well, I hope you don't mind this departure from business regulations, but in this way we may make this decision without a break. Good. Please, if we can now re-vote on the proposed procedural decision. Let's vote, please! I note that there are 44 present, which means that we were not final in the second vote, so we will continue the meeting at 11.11 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. We are moving on to the next attempt to vote on this procedural decision, this is the third time. We can go to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits - second reading - of 19.6.2001. This is a 30-page material. We've got a lot of work to do. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 2. We have an amendment here. Anybody want a word? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. From the outset, I have pointed out the set of amendments relating to deletion, in our view, a very important right to a subsidy for the employment of parents. The amendment to Article 2 practically deletes this right and, of course, the amendment to Article 70 and many more, and then the whole amendments, which delete even the chapter of these matters. In principle, I agree with the government's views, as well as with the views of the LDS fellow Member, that employment policy and subsidisation are a complex issue that needs to be addressed comprehensively. But that is not what we are witnessing today. Today we are witnessing that various forms of subsidies and active policy measures are covered by a number of laws and regulations. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we believe that, pending the comprehensive preparation of the legal basis for the systematic promotion of an active employment policy, these rights must be preserved in partial laws. Only when there's a complete arrangement can we delete it out. For things remain inconspicuous, voids and we believe that it is not good that such important things as parental employment subsidies are not as important to the preparation of appropriate government bases without financial and formal support. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we will not support the amendments of the government, which foresee the deletion of parental employment subsidies, and we also call on other Members to join us in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We can go to the vote on this amendment. So we are voting on the amendment to Article 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 37 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are voting on Article 2 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 37.16 votes. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 16.]] Article 2 is adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 6. There's an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We can go to the vote to the article. Let's vote. Of the 54 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 45.2 votes. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] Article 6 is adopted. We also have only one amendment under Article 7. Anybody want a word? Yes, please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So this amendment refers to what we have actually made a very critical comment earlier on the elimination of the subsidy. So apparently, the ruling coalition has decided not to support parental employment subsidies and, in my opinion, Taamandma is even now a regular one, and should be deleted in order to harmonise it. It is only sad that we have accepted this in the previous vote or that you have accepted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. So I would just like to make clear the position that the LDS Group will support by supporting this amendment. So it is not that we do not want to allow more employment for young people with children, but we just want to settle this in a way that will, of course, be dealt with evenly within the framework of the active employment policy of those groups which already have less employment opportunities. And within these groups, of course, we feel that subsidies will also be needed for young families. And, of course, here is the decision in the parliamentary group why we will support the Taamandma, that this is being deleted from this law and that, of course, we expect, as the Minister has also said on the Committee itself, that the rules of the active employment policy which must be and which will be presented already this year, this is being dealt with in a complex way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I came by mainly to stress the importance of these subsidies. These subsidies are not just an instrument of active employment policy; they are also an instrument of family policy. In Slovenia we are faced with a decline in births and, of course, also with some phenomena that will have very bad consequences for us as a nation in the long term. Surely all instruments aimed at promoting and facilitating the birth of children are the right instruments, and I am therefore surprised to see these subsidies as an instrument of active employment policy. This tool strengthens and promotes family policy and stimulates young parents to increase the number of children, saying that we will make these problems easier for them, which young parents have in employment as well. Therefore, take these subsidies as an integral part of the law, including as an instrument of family policy and not just as an instrument of employment policy. The comment that this matter is part of an active employment policy would also hold as long as these active employment policies are before them, as long as this regulation has already been applied and does not apply and, of course, in particular, as far as the budget on this item would provide funds. Unfortunately, this is not what we have also found in the debate on the adoption of the budget. This means that we are leaving this part again to some uncertain future. We do not agree with this, so we want this very important part of the family policy and active employment policy to remain in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Replica, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	I'd like to replicate Mr. Germich. I don't think the promise of a rule is enough, it's not appropriate, it's not worthy. This promise, if given, should at least be on the level of the law. We know what it's like to have an active employment policy with this rule, and they have to have a basis in law. That's the first one. Secondly, the rules of those things that are in the discretion of the government can be defined. But this is exactly what, if it's money, it makes it possible, if there's no money, it won't, it can't be done. And given the design of this regulation and the law, there is no way that this element of active employment policy will come in. That's it. So there are no guarantees for doing this. Once again, I would like to point out that this measure is extremely important. Because he is positive for employers and employees. It's not like he's doing something to the employee, and then he's trying to get rid of the burden. We therefore stress that this element of active policy or family policy must be in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. I think it would be a shame for the National Assembly to accept this amendment from the government, especially because of the following. I am convinced that the basic text in the law was intended primarily in this context, that the positive movements in Slovenia in the area of length of maternity leave as well as leave for the care and protection of the child, in some way also in the case of increased employment of both parents, and also that they are prevented to the greatest extent possible or in a positive way to prevent possible abuse by employers. However, in particular, the idea that the legislator or the government will resolve this issue by means of an active employment policy rule, I think it is actually a little misleading. First, it is likely that the law on unemployment insurance will have to be amended, and then the solution is likely to follow in the relevant regulation. Of course, there can also be a question that is before us, when it will be done, or if it will be done. I therefore think that in some ways it would be very positive to hand over the legislator if he already defined this right in this law, the right to a subsidy, and then actually to specify it in the system law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Respectable. I think you should say bob beans, though. This is a matter of coordinating parental rights with employment rights or duties, professional duties, and it is not an active employment policy. It's not about the unemployed, it's about the employees who, when they enter family life or get a rise, are at risk. And if they want to benefit from the rights of parenthood, they are actually losing interest and are in a worse position in the labour market. It is also for those who are supposed to have the right to work after four hours, at least at a certain time. So it's a real family policy and I think we don't have to say here that this problem will be resolved in another legislation, in the whole, in the long run, I don't know how, you can tell journalists or the media, but here we know that something is going negative because we know that this element is becoming one of the main obstacles or one of the main motives that we have again and more single-child families. That the birth rate is stagnating because of the employer’s attitude toward the workers who are increasingly grave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mrs Kovšca, for answers. If you could please join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	I would just like to explain so much that the Regulation is already in place, a promise made by the Minister that the Rules of Procedure will be under consideration in the third trimester and that, even in Article 46 thereof, we are regulating these rights. Now, of course, the government's opinion was, as you know, already in the introduction, that it deals with family policy in many areas, that it is only one of the areas. However, for the sole purpose of monitoring the implementation of payment records subsidies, it is the competent employment agency. This would only add to the burden of this law and in fact the mechanisms of infrastructure are much more in place there and it is possible to solve them faster and more effectively than through this law. Therefore, of course, it is necessary to believe that the intention of the government is so. If this regulation already contains Article 46 at this time, I think that we do have a guarantee that the policy of hiring parents with children will be subsidised.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. Germich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Cuckati's statements. I don't think they're entirely accurate. For there are two indents in Article 49, where we are talking about the enforcement of parental employment subsidies, where it clearly states that there is a new application of subsidies, i.e. that the employer employs a new unemployed person. I think this is an exact dictatorship in Article 49.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	I'm surprised my colleague was able to read only the first indent, but not the second. Also, "where he works short hours, no, "to a new job." The first indent speaks of subsidies in terms of active employment policy, that is to say, encouraging employment and the second indent, which employs part-time employment. So let's be correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you. Can we close the debate? I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 34 votes in favour, 12 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 7 as a whole. Of the 46 present, 34 voted in favour, 9 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. However, since it is also related to Article 48, please see Article 48 on page 10. We would now turn to the debate on the amendment to Article 48. Did you find it? I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 48. This is essentially Please, if you don't repeat the arguments because things are connected. [[...]] If there's anything relevant, please, or I'm appealing to you. You have a right, of course. There's no debate. Can we vote on the amendment to Article 48? Then let's vote please. 44 are present. I think it's just a little patience. [[...]] If anyone's around, please come to the hall. In the meantime, we'll see how many of us there are. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Can I have a procedural thought?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Not right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	When?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Let's just finish the vote and then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	We're in the middle of a vote and we're done. Now I've counted and we've had enough. So, please, I'm going to the vote next time. Now! I'm sorry to put it that way, but I don't want anyone to be too early and too late. Of the 47 present, 33 were against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will not now vote on Article 48 because there is still the right to propose an amendment. Excuse me. Mr. Kremjar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I apologize for the speed. I would suggest that, in the event that this is happening to us, we have a vote statement to identify and read, why not, who did not participate in the vote. He did not participate in the vote, but he is present in the Chamber. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	There's no procedural reason anything special is going on here. Members, we are here to vote. There is no mechanism to force an MP to press the button. There's only one. If there is no third ballot, there shall be penalties. Yesterday, however, we spoke about the fact that KVIAZ would prepare a report or analysis on the presence. Mr. Gaber. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Mr Vice-President, I would really like to propose another approach to this issue, as proposed by my colleague. It seems to me that it would be very good for the College of the National Assembly to give serious thought to what is happening to us by such a vote. Personally, I believe that it will be possible to enforce, most likely even now, a system of voting is in place in these days, when the number of votes in this national assembly will make sense. This National Assembly is voting on, essentially, the average number of votes if you look at other parliaments across Europe. When we have a new Rules of Procedure, the number of votes will likely fall to about a third of these votes that we are currently making. We turn ourselves into a button pressor. More than perfect reasoning is that if someone believes that this is the way we have now introduced it, we have increased our concentration in decision making. That didn't happen, and that's the way it can't be done. Therefore, my proposal would be for the College to consider implementing such an arrangement as from the date of the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure. I know that some people don't agree with this, I know that they know that there have been situations in this National Assembly where they've put more pressure on the keys, but I'm sorry, I don't think that's any reason for this. There's no real need to do that. It's obvious that there's more than 50 of us here, and we don't make decisions. It is not true that there is no presence in this National Assembly. Where it is not, I believe that the President, together with the services, can identify this and prevent a vote that would be concluded. I would therefore suggest that the college consider this rather than how it will hunt those present but who have not pressed the button. This one seems a little hairy to me, and I don't believe it's based on anything special.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for the in-depth justification of the procedural proposal. Really, I'm warning you, this is not a part of the agenda. The procedural proposal is a procedural proposal and is not being discussed and so on. So please. Thank you for the warning, but as long as the Rules of Procedure are as they are, the vote must be taken. And I can't accept you talking about unarmedness and these things. I'd like to see that we didn't hear that, but unfortunately we did. So we move on to article 11 where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 11. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 11 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 11 has been adopted. We're at Article 16, where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 16. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. Of the 48 present, 46 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 16 has been adopted. We move on to Article 18, where we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. We tabled an amendment or an amendment with a fellow Member to correct the unfair regime concerning the use of leave. In fact, if you were to impose a diction, such as in the basic text, a mother who would die on her child the next day after birth should return to work after ten days of maternity leave, when for any reasonable reason she is still unable to work. That is why this doctrine is appropriate and corrects the basic text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	This article should be read as a whole, and this article provides that no mother may have less than 42 days of leave. As set out in this Article, it is even better regulated than your proposal because if the mother dies after the 42nd day, she has an additional 10 days of leave. We therefore propose that you support the Government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you. Please, Mr. Tiny, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	It's a replica. Actually, I agree. In fact, your proposal corrects this text. It's just that we've written in full, but you've fixed this thing in a short way, that you've only added it, and we've fixed the whole text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you. Can we close the debate and get to the vote? Yes, you can. So we are voting first on the amendment under order number one, we are at article 18. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 41 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 16 voted in favour, 30 against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 30.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] Article 18 is adopted. We're at Article 19 where we have two amendments. Who wants a word? Nobody wants a word? I would like to point out that if the amendment is adopted first, the second amendment is irrelevant. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote first on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 37 voted in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment has been adopted and therefore the vote on the amendment under order number two is unnecessary. We are only voting on Article 19 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 Members present, 47 voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] Article 19 is also fully adopted. We have two amendments to Article 20. Who wants a word? Nobody? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. So if the mother is ill, it means that she is unable to care for another member, she cannot perform this task. Therefore, we believe that it is justified to obtain this opportunity to use the leave of the father, quite logically, and that is why we have tabled these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Article 20 provides: The father shall have the right to maternity leave if the mother: 1. dies, 2. leaves the child and 3. on the basis of the opinion of the competent doctor permanently or temporarily unable to live and work alone. This right is said to be reasonably embedded in Article 3. But if you want to get a father who's at home to compensate for raising his mother, then it's a new right that we can't regulate with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. We conclude the debate and move to a vote on the first amendment to Article 20. Let's vote please. Of the 48 present 11 for, 33 versus. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote please. Of the 48 present, 44 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 20th Article in its entirety. Let's vote please. I'm sorry something's happening again. A little patience, please. We will now have to make another vote. I propose that we repeat the vote because of some technical difficulties. I guess something's going on. Please, you're so kind and once again. Good. We apologize for this unloving thing, but we have to vote again. So we are voting on Article 20 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 46 present, 46 voted in favour of Article 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. In article 23, we have two amendments which are substantively identical. I don't know, I think we should put such things together in a single amendment in the future, if it's a substantively identical thing, so that we don't have to vote twice on one and the same thing. I therefore propose that both amendments, because they are substantively the same, be discussed and voted on together. I do not see any opposition to this proposal - it is logical, I hope - and I am opening the debate. There's no debate. We move to a vote on both substantively identical amendments to Article 23. Let's vote, please. Well, we're out of some right now. Please present who are near I find that there are 44 of us, no more, no less. [[...]] Now there's 45 of us if I count it right. Yeah, there's more cards. There's not enough of us in the gym to count right. Right? Good. Then please, once again, we are voting again. We are voting now. Of the 46 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is now a full vote on Article 23. Let's vote, please! Let's re-vote; obviously someone pressed the button too soon or I don't know what happened. So please, once again, be careful when the bar shows up, you can press it, and as long as you see it on the screen, you can press it five times, because of me, but you can't press it until you see it on the screen. Because I've seen that when I say, "we're going to the vote," you press. Unfortunately, when I say "now," I don't know how else to say it. I'm sorry for this instruction. Let's do it again. Well, we're voting now. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 47 voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] I note that Article 23 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to Article 25, where we have two amendments that are being excluded, as you can see; if it is adopted first, it will be unnecessary to vote on the second. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. So our proposal is an intermediate solution. The government has proposed a more liberal, freer use of leave, i.e. by the age of eight. Ours goes to the age of three, the basic text only at the beginning. Why do we support such a solution? Because it still allows for the allocation of leave, but not too freely. Because it happens that parents then benefit from a holiday in later periods of their child’s age, when there is no longer so much need, as it is necessary for parents to be with a child, for care and then, of course, to benefit from this holiday either for building a house, for farming, etc. Therefore, it seems to us that the solution up to the third year is appropriate, which is also supported by the ordinary people with whom I have spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Kovšca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	I have to explain. Of course, this proposal may not be wrong if at least 90 days of replacements were given to the father. However, since the following text provides for the father to receive 15 days of compensation, this would mean that we have to force him to benefit from unpaid leave, and such leave could be a serious coercion for a lot of people. This is how it is decided for those 15 days during maternity leave, and for the rest of the days it will be possible to distribute it by the age of eight.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Brenčič and then the replica. Is that a replica? I'm sorry Mr. Petty Officer replicated. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	You are partly right, therefore, if we have adopted a provision on compensation - we have not yet decided - that even a father can benefit from it, then our proposal is perfectly consistent and appropriate. However, I believe that this article should be amended, so that this solution can also be improved. Now, our amendment is made on the basis of this concept, that it is full of compensation for all days and, of course, then this limit is also consistent until the third year of age.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Look. When the mother ends her vacation, the child is at best one year old. At that time, Father was to use two-thirds of his leave. But big problems with a child arise when one year into child care, such and different, and I think that one third of the time off for a father from one year forward is, say, not enough to go to school. I think it's a shame that we're going to concrete that it has to spend two-thirds already in the first year of the child's age. In practice, those who have given their children into kindergarten after one year or a little while before then have a whole series of problems, and how good it is that two or three days a father can get in and stay with the child at home before the child adjusts to the new situation in kindergarten and also get over all childhood diseases. In any case, it is good that the article remains open and it is reasonable that the government amendment is supported and can rule in the third, then perhaps the matter has been settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We can close the debate. Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 25. Let's vote please. Of the 47 present, 39 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Once this amendment has been adopted, the vote on the amendment under order number 2 is unnecessary. We are therefore voting only on the 25th article in its entirety. Let's vote please. Of the 47 present, 44.1 voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 25 has been adopted. We're at Article 26. We have three amendments here. If the amendment is adopted under point 1, the vote on the amendment under point 2 shall not be necessary. I am opening the debate on Article 26 and the amendments. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	The National Assembly in the previous assembly has reached 305 days, now the government is proposing 260 days, we would, we would decide for, that is, 1 year. If I had made an amendment to the government, this would in fact mean an additional reduction in leave compared to the current situation. Why? Because the proposal for a new labour law limits the possibility of using regular leave in this case. In fact, it would be shortened to impose a provision or a proposal by the Government's amendment in relation to the Labour Relations Act. Therefore, it would be appropriate to keep it for at least 305 days. So our proposal is one year. Every person decides how much they have. It can also shorten it, but that's the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We will vote first on the first amendment to Article 26. Let's vote please. Of the 49 present, 13 voted against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We therefore move on to the vote on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 32 to 9 voted in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are still voting on the third amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We still have a full vote on Article 26. Let's vote, please. Something's going to be wrong with the presence. Or with concentration. We repeat the vote, please. So we will re-vote Article 26 in full. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 43 were voted in favour, up to 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 26 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 27. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. There's only one amendment. Let's vote on this amendment. Let's vote please. Of the 48 present, 40 MEPs voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on Article 27 as a whole. Let's vote, please. 45. We'll re-vote. I have not noticed that the number of Members and Members would change in this room. So, I repeat the vote on Article 27 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 27 has been adopted. Article 31 shall have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 31. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 31st article as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 31 has been adopted. We're at Article 34, where we have two amendments. I am opening the debate on Article 34 and the first amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the first amendment to Article 34. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 45 voted in favour of the amendment, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 34. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 47 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 34 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 34 has been adopted. We move on to the 40th article, where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 40. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 Members present, 43 voted in favour, 4 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Furthermore, the vote on Article 40 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 41.6 votes. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] Article 40 is fully adopted. Article 41, here's an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We move to the vote on the amendment to Article 41. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 9 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the article. We therefore vote on Article 41 as a whole. Of the 46 present, 35.4 votes. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] Article 41 is adopted. We're at 43rd. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we can close the debate and get to the vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 43. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 47 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. It's all about 43nd. We're voting, please. Let's vote! Of the 48 present, 46 voted in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 43 is fully adopted. We're at the new 44a. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the new Article 44a. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present were 45 for, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 44 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	We're moving on to Article 46. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to a vote. We're voting. We vote on the amendment to Article 46. We're re-voting. We're voting. I'm adjourning the session. Proceed to 12.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 46. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the article. We're voting. We'll vote next time. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 43, for one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are considering paragraphs 47 and three amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 40.7 vs. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. Please. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 for, one for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The third amendment thus became irrelevant; the article is completely amended. We have already adopted the amendment to Article 48, which is why we are voting only on the article as a whole. We're voting. We'll vote next time. The vote failed, we continue in 10 minutes - 12.41.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	We're continuing our session. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to concentrate. This is the third time we have voted on Article 48 as a whole. We're voting. 47 present, 43 for, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Article 48 is adopted. We are moving on to Article 53, which is the amendment to the title. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing up. We're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 47 Members and Members present, 44 for, against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted and the address was completely amended. We are moving on to Article 55 and an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing up. We're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 48 Members and Members present. For 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 55 as a whole. We're voting. Unfortunately, there were 45 or 45. Given that there is a much larger number in the hall, I would like to request appropriate concentration. Repeat the vote, another time. We're voting, please. Present 51, 48 for, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Article 55 was adopted. We have an amendment to Article 56 in our consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. We're voting. Please, we're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 56 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that paragraph 56 has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 58 in our consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please! There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 58 has been adopted. We are voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 51 Members and Members present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I assure you that Article 58 has been adopted. We move on to the amendment to Article 62. Anybody want to talk? Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd have a question for the government in particular. Look, it's an amendment that revalues amounts. And also all the amendments in the following additions and assistance and this 62th spoke of the height of the parental allowance, which the government amendment raises from 30,000 to 35,000 tolars. We know that the law was introduced into the National Assembly in mid-1998, that today, when we consider it in second reading, in mid-2001, that is to say, there are three years in between. I see the government has proposed between 15% and 20% of the increase. In these three years, we believe that the increase in prices of living needs has been significantly higher and not less than 20%, so I ask the Government, on the basis of which arguments and on the basis of which supplements this increase has been determined, or how does this increase argue: Has it knowingly reduced these supplements according to the 1998 Act? For today, if we compare the real value of this supplement with the real value of the non-amended supplement in 1998, we see that there is a significant difference in the view of prices of living needs. So I ask once again where is the basis for just such a raise in parental allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	The Secretary of State has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	The bill was drafted in 1998, but was due to enter into force on 1.1.1999. These amounts were used as a basis as if they had entered into force since 1999. The government took into account the increase in living costs: for 1999 6.1% and for 2000 8.9%. Total growth was 15.5%, and amounts are even higher and rounded up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Regrettably, this answer cannot satisfy me in any way because of the following argument: if the government had foreseen in mid-1998 that the law would enter into force as of 1999, it is probably true that today it expects the law to enter into force as of 2002, for example, or later, and that it takes into account 2001. However, it is noted from the State Secretary's or Undersecretary's comment that this is not the case; it is said that 2001 is not included here. And if, in 1998, it took into account the entry into force of the law and the application of the law, it would be appropriate to take these amounts into account when the possibility of the law entering into force is real and to take this period into account until then also in this price. However, I have heard from the comment that growth in 2001, the projected growth in 2001, which is clear and well-known - how real it is, is another thing - but it is not included in this. And I want to know why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you. I explained that we have rounded the amounts up, that some amounts are even about 20% increase. Now, whether we can calculate it or not this year, it would be difficult to assess how the cost of living will grow this year; these are nominal amounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	I don't think it's hard to predict what's going to happen this year because a good part of the year has happened and we have clear indicators. And those who deal with the economy know what will happen by the end of the year - so that at best the movements can be the same as they were in the first half, and it is very likely that they will be worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We vote on the first amendment to Article 62. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 62 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 50 Members and Members present, for 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Article 62 was adopted. We have Article 65 and the amendment to Article 65. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting, please! There are 48 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please! There are 50 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Article 65 is adopted. We have paragraph 67 and two amendments that are being excluded. Anybody want to talk? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. There are several reasons why we have tabled such an amendment. So if we decide on the package, then for the same value we get significantly more than we would buy the equipment in retail. In fact, it is the only right substantive duty on the part of the State, but all others are monetary duties and therefore at least one material duty would be imposed to keep or keep the goods. That we have not put up an alternative, but that - between the package and the money - is an additional reason. Above all, in economically weak standing families, it is good to see that the money that comes into the family budget is also spent on other things and not so much for children. This is also, in fact, the characteristic of some of the duties imposed by countries in order to provide for the welfare of the child a commodity duty which is material in order to obtain it. Well, it happens that this money that is supposed to be for a child, because of family disagreements or between parents, because - let's say - of the necessity of other needs that are placed in front of a child so that this equipment is not obtained. That's why we decided to make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you. Member Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'm afraid the amendment proposalr had no family in mind where more children are born. From my experience, I can tell you that a third child also had enough diapers and similar things to buy at the first birth of a child in the family. That's the first one. Second. I think that, especially when it comes to socially weak families, it usually comes to the rescue, at least in my family, it was the custom for the family to move in with children's equipment, so to speak, which is impossible to rob in this short time when it is appropriate. That is why I think that the regulation that is now in law and as proposed by the government is the only quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	I would just like to make it clear that now that parents have a choice, 60 percent opt for a package and 40 percent for a cash refund. I think it is right that parents have a choice - Mr Lavrinc has explained, probably on their experience too. And I would like to add only to this the thought that you have expressed regarding the purposeful use of these funds that parents receive. In cases where the Centre for Social Work considers that such funds would not be deliberately used for children, it may decide on a functional basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Come on, please, calm down in the hall! If the amendment under point 1 is adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 2 shall be irrelevant. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting please. 49 Members and Members present. Ten, 34. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on amendment number two. Let's vote, please. There are 48 Members and Members present. For 42, against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I assure you, the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 67 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Vote, second time. I ask for proper assembly, because there are several Members in the Chamber, as shown on the monitor. This is the second time we have voted on the whole article. There are 46 Members and Members present. For 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 67 has been adopted. We have Article 69 and two amendments that are being excluded. Anybody want to talk? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to make an editorial comment on our amendment. In order to flip the table from horizontal to vertical, columns 2 and 3 have been replaced, so that this is essentially to be replaced. So we have submitted these corrections through Lotus Notes, and now I do not know whether the Members have received this correction or not. With regard to content, once again, I can stress that we are proposing a universal child allowance, which is combined, which takes account of the economic situation of the family and, in view of the intentions of the government coalition in amending the Income Act, our proposal is all the more justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	It would only point out that this proposal has the nature of the intervention law, as it regulates the payment of child allowances in a completely different way and directly enforces the universal child allowance. Given that we - this debate on the level of the child supplement and selectivity - have already decided, when reading that law, how we will resolve the policy of the children's allowances in the future, we do not think that this proposal is appropriate. However, I would also warn Members and Mr Drobnič that their proposal also represents major financial, material needs or calls for large financial resources. In the first option, an extra 30 billion tolars, and in the first one, where you say you brought a correction, 28 billion extra tolars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	I can say the following about the universal children's allowance. In the previous National Assembly, parties who now strongly support the selective said they support the universal children's allowance [[We can go look at the MRIs.]] . Colleague Školč says that this is a sign of progress, that these are advanced customers because they change the policy of child allowances within one year. If that's it, then - I don't know. I have seriously justified what the advantage of this form is in fact - so only that upper class opens for the minimum amount of the child supplement, the principle. It is true that we are now instituting - given the level of average wages as an instrument, so that we do not need to be valorised. It is only ad valorem in terms of average wages, which we consider to be a suitable instrument, rather than being subject to the harmonisation of the growth of living costs. We know how the cost of living increases and how the wage guarantees are coordinated: at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, wages guaranteed and minimum wages are less than the cost of living. This means that they are getting more and more real. We also introduce these instruments in this regard. Yes, of course! In coordination, in the final clauses, this is it! It's all hidden in these principles, you know. People will figure it out. Now this law is written as a beautiful declaration, and in two or three years, it appears. The guaranteed salaries have clearly demonstrated what we have done in the last eight, nine years; no one needs to be explained. Look at the statistics! The difference between the average salary and the guaranteed salary - what happened. Clean wine needs to be poured, and that's why we're warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. The word has been given by the Member of the Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Well, selectivity is equally preserved in our proposal, the ratio between the lowest and the highest is one to three or one to four; so this is solved. The other thing is height. Taking into account your suggestions and ours building on average wages, there are no significant differences. However, substantial differences will arise, of course, once the revalorisation does not take place as it should, once the law is not known when it will be adopted and so on. This is actually where numbers are built, including on your side, in a variety of ways. The question is then only this universal supplement, which exceeds the quota of more than 75% of the average wage per family member, which is extremely small. I didn't check your calculations myself, but certainly the numbers you're giving me don't convince me. This is true: to protect the height of the child supplement without valorisation manipulation, as we see in other sums.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Member Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. My view is a little different. After all, our society is not rich enough to afford, I would say, a child's allowance for families, children when income per family member is over 100% on average. This is incomparable to another situation for the family than if income per family member is 25 or 15%. You can't compare that at all. Because I said that in addition to this law, we need something else in this country, which coincides with the child, with the family, etc. Only if the allocation of children's allowances according to the table, as proposed by a fellow Member, differs so much in money that only one year can we build a paediatric clinic and an oncology institute. Whoever saw this and saw the situation, the state of our public infrastructure, which also concerns the family, is quite clear to him. In this case, I say one thing: we are not yet such a wealthy society that we could afford a universal children's allowance and that we would still maintain sufficient servicing of the most vulnerable, I would say, exposed families, as far as income per family member is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you. Replica, mag. You little rascal!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	I'd like to replicate my colleague Brenčič. Yes, you know, such measures must follow the country's liberal measures. Citizens are increasingly paying for health services, so we will not do anything about building hospitals if we cannot cover these costs that occur, not in children alone, but in adults. We are moving in this direction as a society. With regard to these budgetary expenditure, I can say that in recent years we have lost - and children or families have lost - some of the benefits. I mentioned earlier that this law reduces the actual possibility of these parental leave benefits, decreases in real terms, then makes it easier to buy a car for larger families - that was also two billion and a half years earlier, now the state has saved in not mentioning other things. Well, family policy needs to be fully viewed. Now, if it's being liberalized elsewhere then - and obviously we didn't have an impact on that under other laws - we're trying to compensate here for what blew away what you blew away. It's all the art of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	I apologize for perhaps prolonging this discussion, but I would not like to see wrong interpretations in public. You know very well, and I have already said in my reasoning on the previous law that there has been a real increase in children's allowances from 0.5 to 1.1 GDP. Therefore, we cannot really talk about reducing funds for child allowances. That's another thing. I'd like to explain to Mr. Sugar. If you don't believe me, my colleague calculated it on specific numbers. I can give them to you. I say, however, that what the real maximum additional burden means is the beneficiaries below 99 per cent of the average on the family plan, and that would be at the annual level of 14 billion. And I think if you're here in this regard we won't believe it - this data is accessible. You can get this information and operate on it. However, the third point I would like to mention in this respect is that all state revenues, all transfers, are aligned with the growth in living costs and are linked. And it depends on each other. Sometimes even higher than salary growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Only a brief replica of Mr Petty Officer and in my own way I fully understand him. But we cannot help but overlook the fact that this law brings a much richer scope for the family: both leave and parental benefits. It is said that this law does not apply to a liberal principle, that we also have a different approach here and that we are squandering funds. The law is rich and I know that it could possibly be even richer when the situation at the general level, public finances and state capacities are improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Anybody else want some? Mag. Squirrel please, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Replica State Secretary. If you look at the harmonisation provisions, i.e. the final provisions, and the transitional provisions, how it is with valorisation, and above all the government's amendment, where it says that they will be coordinated in the same way - that is to say, some benefits will be coordinated as the guaranteed wages are aligned. As with the guaranteed wages, we did, the amendment came in, now I don't know if you're gonna take it out or not. [[...]] However, the guaranteed salaries were discussed at the last meeting, or earlier, how they would be coordinated. Not to be up to 100 percent of the cost of living. But you know, it's all connected. This could be the story of the goat snake. At that time, I warned Parliament, colleagues: when we adopt this tool for harmonising guaranteed wages, we are not just coordinating guaranteed salaries, we are coordinating state transfers. And if that's how the unions bargained for their wages, I won't argue with them. In this case, the country would have given us a different instrument of coordination!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. It's a replication of Ambassador Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Well, I'm not impressed with the first or second solution. I'll tell you why. There's a similar story in child care. If you remember, there are provisions and restrictions on family income. In fact, every child is subsidized with food and child care. I ask you - and of course we have adopted these laws - how the family, who barely survives, "knocks," to say the end of the month with the beginning of a new one, when they see that the exact same addition gets the family, that is, the father or the mother, who brings a modern car accident there and gives the child protection. This base, therefore, has one defect in family income. And I would remind you of the law on free legal aid, where we arranged this thing differently: we went to the property and that's right. That's the first one. Second. I ask you how - here you should be written down for the last group: 75% of the income per family member - with what face should people like us as Members or those who are above us on wages walk and demand this supplement! That's delusional! This, of course, is the position of the opposition, where it can bid on unconsciousness. And because they're worried about who's gonna fill the budget. But, gentlemen, I warn you, this thing is short-lived. These budgets also fill those poor families.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you. He's replicating Ambassador Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	First, I would like to point out once again that the relationship following this proposal is between the lowest and highest supplements 1:3 and 1:5 and 1:4 respectively. In terms of the 14 billion that the state would lose at the expense of the children whose income per family member is above 100% of the average wage, somehow I don't have the money. Look, I'm proposing a baby supplement. For these children, there are 5,000, 6,000 tolars there, no more, which is 3 to 5% of the average wage. If we take 14 billion into account, I shared with this amount of the child supplement, we should have 2 million children in Slovenia. I'm kind of not getting along. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. He's replicating the MP, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Mr. Lavrinc, what you've said is misleading. The income of the family includes different incomes, not just wages. Of course, you have to ask yourself what the government has done to really record all the family’s income. Is there any desire at all? What is included in the income is well known. I am alone in setting up order for capture. And this instrumentation that we have mentioned relates to the income of the family. However, height is, of course, like that measuring instrument, but it is the average wage. That is why all those Mercedes and so on are inappropriate comments; the relevant comments are that the state is realistic and that it really begins to see what income is and only for that purpose must the wish be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you. It's a replication of Ambassador Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Here's what I'm going to say: it's right that you don't agree with me, it's your opposition position, but don't make me cheat. In this case, you're talking nasty, rude, lying! Sit down with one of your mayors, talk to him about the problems we're having right now, and you'll see! I'm talking about exceptions that are exquisite and make a mark for everything that is. It is that tradesmen today - of course, in the care of as much business as possible - report as, I don't know, workers at the utility company, as far as wages are concerned. What is income, you know - you say. Then don't tell me to push! The fact is, in the last indent, you wrote, "over 75% of the income per family member," which means everyone is in here. If the president had a small child, he would be. Don't speak up, shamelessly; and beguile that I have deceived! That's not true! I have said as an example that both one and the other bases in such matters do not seem right - not right, best. I think that if a little more effort were to be made, it could be found; I even gave an example. And don't move anymore! And I won't replicate any more, whatever sir says.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would ask Members and Members who intend to replicate - of course they have the right - to limit themselves, however, because in fact there has been a lot of this already said. Member Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Now I have to replicate to Mr Lavrinc, and I'm not going to call again, so it won't last forever. But it's right to say something, because there are also wrong statements - I say, wrong statements, not replicas. Mr. Lavrinz, I must give you the right. It is true that poor families also fill the budget, and I will say that, above all, poor families fill the budget. And that's the important difference, and that's why I'm replicating you. Last year, when we had the honor of even being able to dig up that list, who owes something to the budget register, and when we came up with those fabulous numbers, so many billions, of which 50 billion are real expendable, we found that they are three, four and two billion tolars and they didn't pay. So you're not poor. And now we're at the core of what I'm replicating. When you said that it was necessary to fill the cash register and that the opposition had no intention, no will or sense to determine how to fill the cash register. Yeah, it's gotta be recovered where there's a lot. But obviously there was no will for it, and then it didn't go in the direction of figuring out how we're going to recover those billions, but it was about who put that list out. I'm sure that list that was long -- I was looking at the first 200 -- and they were still over half a billion. How many more are then those who went on to one of these, quite a nice amount. You would probably bring the 50 billion as real as it is real. Probably those who are in charge of a brand or something like that, when the tax administration is asking for them - I'm not saying that you're in favour of it, because I know it seems stupid for you that tax administrations are getting at the one who forgot to pay 100 tolars or forgot to announce a few hundred tolars. But the fact is, the government has done nothing to make those who still owe billions what these billions have contributed to the state treasury. Therefore, please do not encourage us to have no will or sense of how the state treasury would be filled. Yes, we do! It's just us who say that when taxes are to be paid, not only those who pay less, those who are small, but also those who are big. That's what I wanted to tell you, and first of all, I'm not gonna replicate as you said. But I think it's right that we find out. This happened last year, when it was real, trying to minimize quite a bit and make a smile, I'll say. This is the biggest problem of our society! It is said that even the ruling does not have the greatest hearing to recover where it is most possible to recover; where there is the most money, but you try with those smaller ones who may not even have the money to get a lawyer so that you can find a right - but here, of course, I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you. A representative of the government, Lidija Podkrižnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	With regard to the coordination of the amounts. In fact, there is no indication in the law that any family income or remuneration is aligned with the guaranteed salary. Family benefits are aligned with the Life Needs Price Index, while benefits are aligned with the base salary for non-economic activities and not with the guaranteed salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Member Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would say, however, that we are not at this point of debt recovery, which is very important, but at the point where we decide on the way and the height of the children's allowances. To talk about the proposal put forward by two Members is, of course, a proposal for a universal children's allowance, because it is still a selective children's allowance and is not a universal child's allowance. But it brings a lot, and we have heard that 14 billion a year to those families and those children and those parents whose income is higher than 75 percent of the average wage per family member. That's not universal. Universality was decided by this country in 1993 in a resolution which we have already mentioned several times today. At that time, it was the full consensus of all political parties sitting in Parliament that the ambition of this country was to introduce a universal children's allowance, which would be divided so that it would be the exact same amount for all children, no matter what the property situation of citizens or citizens or families would be divided into three groups, according to age periods. It's a universal children's allowance. Not what we have here. And we have found, and also political parties, from the Social Democrats to the United List, the People's Party, Christian parties and others, that this moment, as well as the past few years, there is no time in this country when this universality could be introduced. And that's why we insist on being selective. And even in this selective way, those with an average income of the average wage per family member do not need to be further assisted by the state. Make it more helpful for those who have this lower data. And that is why, of course, we support in the parliamentary group, as we have already said at the outset, a government proposal that compares this. And to Mr. Tsukati, kind of, about his mathematics and his calculation. He had previously said that there were then 2 million children strong in this country. Yes, if you'd given them 6,000 dollars a year. But I understand that children's allowance is met every month. And if we get it every month, then the number of your 2 million and a few children is lower than divided by 12. And that's about 200,000 kids. So much for this math that we wouldn't give each other numbers that don't hold and that I don't think are correct and that it would be wrong for them to come to the public like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Replica, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	I thank you for the warning that the secretary has already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. It's a trifle. Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	You're probably embarrassed to hear from me, but some people are just insisting on it and faking the facts. If you look at this scale, this is not a children's supplement, universal for all children equally. This is a combined supplement that applies to all children but depends on the economic situation of the family. That's clear to every primary student. Therefore, the ratio between the child additive is also the highest and lowest categories 1:5, 1:4 and 1:5. Thus, in essence, we retain what we have written down in the resolution, sticking to what the parties have already decided to stick to one year ago. And, of course, it is slightly different than some parties decided this year after the elections. That's the whole difference. And that's what's coming out of it. Of course, the resolution on family policy sets out other benefits to be provided by the State: school meals, textbook purchases, transportation allowances, and others. What are we insinuating? Free school, so you have to pay every month or two for school supplies, for material and so on, not to mention. That's what you should be looking at in full. Families are becoming more and more recipients of all services, not only health care, but also educational, cultural. Thank you. I won't be answering now, now I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	I can see there are no more applicants, I'm concluding. Before voting on the amendments, I would like to point out that if the amendment under point 1 is adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. I am also asking for due diligence because I have noticed that some Members have left the Chamber. So we're voting on amendment number one. We're voting, please. There were 51 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. 11 for, 39 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are still voting on amendment number two. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 69 in full. We're voting, please. 51 Members and Members present: 46, none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] Article 69 was adopted. We're considering paragraph 70. Two amendments. Anybody want to talk? I'm sorry, the other one's been removed. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members present. 44 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 70 as a whole. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members present. Forty-seven, one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] Article 70 was adopted. We're considering a new 70.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We are voting on the amendment for the new 70th. Please, we're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 13, 33 vs. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the amendment for the new 70a was not adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 73. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. Please, we're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 73 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 73 as a whole. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members present, 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 73 has been adopted. We're dealing with paragraph 76. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on the article. Please, let's focus. We're voting, please. Vote, second time. Please, we're voting. Unfortunately, the vote failed. We'll resume in ten minutes at 13.46.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-22-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	I would like to inform everyone present that I have been informed that some Members are in charge of certain other obligations and that we are hereby adjourning the meeting. But please listen to this message. We will continue the meeting on Tuesday, 26.6 p.m. at 2 p.m. with the consideration of the 52nd item of the agenda - elections and appointments; then we will move on to today's closed 10th item of the agenda, then to the 12th item and in order to proceed. For the sake of the festive meeting of the National Assembly, I ask the Members and Members to take the material with you. Thank you very much for attending, I wish you a pleasant holiday and invite you to attend the festivities of the National Assembly on Monday. This concludes today's session. Thank you.
