ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Bogomir Vnučec, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič for the morning part of the session and Pavel Rupar. Please note the presence in the hall by inserting cards. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, I find that we are not concluding, so I respectfully ask you to re-check our presence by inserting cards. We're rediscovering presence. I find there are 50 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We also invited representatives of the government to the meeting, whom I welcome very much. Today's continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 32nd item on the agenda, elections and appointments, namely the adjournment of the debate and the decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint the Director-General of Radiotelevision Slovenia. The assembly will then move on to the 28th item, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine, noting that a report by the home working body will be prepared for consideration of this point. The assembly will then move on to the consideration of the 4th item, this is a proposal for an aviation law, and in order to proceed. With the agenda cleared, you were informed that the meeting was scheduled to begin today with a 26-point hearing, this is a proposal for a bill to pay compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has informed us that they are Minister Dr. Tea Petrin and Secretary of State Dr. Edo Pirkmajer are absent due to their business trip abroad. Therefore, we will discuss this point on Tuesday, 27.2.2001, after the end of the "question and initiative of Members and Members", when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia answers the questions of opposition Members. We're moving on to break 32. It's on the line of day, it's on love and naming. We continue with the adjourned debate on the proposal for a decree on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The debate of representatives of the parliamentary groups is open. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! The Slovenian national party I think yesterday was the only party who had no opportunity to present its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	I apologize, Mr Sašo Peče, we still have an open presentation of the opinions of the Group of Members if you speak on behalf of the Group of Members, or after an open debate for Members. We have interrupted this point in our work when not all representatives of the groups of Members have presented their opinions. That is why, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Sašo Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm trying to explain. Yesterday, the Slovenian national party was the only political organisation in this national assembly that had no opportunity to explain its position at this point due to the late 18th hour, although Mr Zmago Jelinčič proposed that the matter be dealt with until the end of the vote. We do not intend to support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party, as we have already said in Kviaz and the public. But I want to explain what led us to this basic motto. And if we leave an argument to the Court of Auditors and any doubts that arise at this point, that is, whether the operation will be legitimate or not legitimate. And on the other hand, what was happening in the world as a legally elected body of this public institution. Our decisions have basically only led to the fact that we believe that the intellectual work of the public service Radiotelevision of Slovenia is represented by journalists. The press union has informed us that they disagree with the proposal. We don't believe that the so-called movies that were purchased would represent the part that we would rely on. And because the basic motto of the public service Radiotelevision Slovenia is to inform people and the information is created by journalists, and if they have decided that it is not a suitable candidate, then we will support it in the Slovenian National Party. Then we will support their proposal in the Slovenian National Party. So we will not support the proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Janez Podobnik and Mr Franci Rokavec, who are able to discuss the debate in writing, submitted themselves to the debate. The following is a limited discussion of Members who have not applied in writing. A written application may be made before the debate of Members begins. If you wish to apply in writing for the debate, then please kindly, if you can fill in and we will consider that you have also applied in writing for the debate of Members. This means that they want to discuss Mr Janša, Mr Pukšič and Mr Jerovšek, without restriction. I give my word to Mr. Janez Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Although I signed up in writing, my performance won't be long, but I think it's right that I signed up in writing. After yesterday's performance of the parliamentary groups, even after the performance I myself had on behalf of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party, I also further examined the report of the mother's working body and I would particularly like to discuss the views of fellow Members of the groups, very carefully, which are the reasons why you did not support the proposal of the RTV Council. A very important reason that could have its weight was mentioned in the performance by colleague Diacia, and in part it is now taken by colleague Peca. From his performance, it could be seen as if there was a breach of procedure in the world of RTV. This is an important issue with regard to secret balloting. My colleague Diaca said: "We are convinced above all by the fact that journalists have expressed their opinions clearly and loudly..." - this is entirely legitimate and no one disputed - "but the members of the RTV Slovenia Council have decided twice to vote in secret." I would first suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that for us it is a merciless first vote when the RTV Council, on the basis of its Rules of Procedure and the secret voting procedure, decided on the candidate. Then colleague Diaci continues: "The next we understand as the fact that they did not want to take responsibility for the business plan...". This is a misunderstanding because they did not vote on the business plan. That's the wrong way out. For the business plan and operation of Mr Čadež as Director-General of RTV Slovenia in the future. Today you have also received the business plan from all Members and Members of Parliament and you can look at it. I would like to point out explicitly the correctional record of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. In accordance with its powers, the Commission, bearing in mind that the Council of RTV Slovenia has taken its decision in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law, invitation to tender and the Rules of Procedure of the Council of RTV Slovenia, by secret vote. Thus, the working body of the National Assembly found that the procedure was irrefutablely corrected. Colleagues and colleagues! I propose that you therefore do not state this argument as a reason not to support the decision of the RTV Council because it is illogical because the procedure has been corrected, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this has also been found by our Commission, and it is right that it has written so, because I believe that many misinterpretations have actually opened up to the public about this issue. An open question could have been when the RTV world decided on the V.D.E., but today we're not talking about it and it's not our jurisdiction at all. So, as I would say, you've expressed your point of view, but somehow we express the view that this cannot be an argument - if someone rightly, after the procedure, decides something, it's not an argument that you're rejecting something. And, of course, the following misunderstanding: the RTV world did not vote on the business plan. This could really have been just a lapsus on the show, but since that was said, I'd like to say it here in public. I also looked at the views of other respected colleagues. No specific direct reasons have been given why your parliamentary groups will decide as they choose. And if I understand you correctly, you will not support at least some of the RTV proposals. The lines could be understood as being some unconfirmed charges at the expense of the candidate for this function. Now we should say the following here. Here I would appreciate the position of fellow Member Anderlich, who specifically said, "It is not important for us to have a partial report from the Court of Auditors and does not affect our decisions." I think that's the right position. As for other charges, irregularities, rumors, and so on, the question should be raised here as to whether a police indictment had been filed or whether any judicial suspicion had been expressed. Therefore, these unconfirmed accusations may be the reason for the parliamentary failure of this competent authority, which is an essential institution of civil society in Slovenia, and only five representatives of the groups of Members are present in it. So I think it's time for honest words - whether there are reasons or not. I would be very happy to hear such specific statements. In the debate, however, it was also seen as if we were making only a temporary decision today. On the contrary, colleague Kebric says that the discretion of Members and Members will prevail in order to take account of certain reasons that speak against calling today Mr Chadjez the Director-General definitively. There's a misunderstanding! V.D. is the authority of the world of RTV, and this has done it. Today, however, the National Assembly may decide on a proposal from the Council, and also on the basis of a report from the parent working body, whether it decides to postpone and postpone the decision, but today it is not possible to appoint a candidate for this responsible function. For it is said, the time is sufficient; within six months we will be able to clear everything up, and then or before, at the time of the requisition. I do not think that we need to make a final decision today. However, if the proposal for a decision to be taken today is to be decided, it is necessary to define until when - our Group of Members is also ready to discuss such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, Mr Sašo Pece first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Mr. Squirrel! You are debating the position of the Slovenian National Party. Our position. You want to tell us, i.e. a completely completely different political organisation, how to vote that you are not satisfied with our arguments. No one on our side would allow that. And maybe just an explanation. I believe you're the only one who didn't understand what I was going to say. Even if it is not important for our decisions, let's say the fact that the Court of Auditors plays a role in the game, even if we have a different view of the world of Radiotelevision in the Slovenian National Party, these were not the main arguments in our decision. In our decision, the basic argument was the intellectual work of Radiotelevision Slovenia. And because we believe that this work is primarily behind, I stress, particularly the press union, and because we have received such an opinion from them, we will support it. However, we will certainly not allow ourselves to try to convince another parliamentary group through this booth because of our own or that due to the likeness of a candidate. I would ask you not to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. They also have a replica of Mr Maximilian Lavrinc and then Mr Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	No, Madam President, I'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Then later. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. My friend Peca, you've got me all wrong. If I have intervened in any way in your position as a member of the Group, I apologize. I understand your performance, but I have not heard your performance, that you have also mentioned developments in the world of RTV and I understand that you could also challenge the appointment process. That's all. If I got you all wrong, I'm sorry. I only found in the performance that our commission had found that the procedure in the RTV world had been carried out in accordance with the procedure and the Rules of Procedure and that it had been corrected. But all the rest of your opinions are completely "respected" and I have no right to interfere with them. I can comment on them and therefore fully respect your views. But we can have different ones. So I only understood in your performance that you also questioned the correctness of the procedure in the world of RTV, which is why I mentioned you and I apologize if I have offended you in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Allow me to begin by actually reminding myself again, this time also in the presence of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, by protesting that it is unacceptable that I was not allowed yesterday to receive a leave of absence from the Group to prepare for this meeting, for this item on the agenda. Pointing to Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure explicitly, I will quote and then proceed with the debate, saying, "The President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if the Group of Members so requests." End of statement. I think there was an eccentric violation of the rules of procedure. Now to the point. In fact, at the election, appointment and administrative session of the Commission, I have pointed out that any other decision of the National Assembly, such as the decision of the Radiotelevision Council, will be a grave policy intervention in the independence of this media as well. Why? In the world of RTV there is already a five-member body represented by political parties, and everyone else is, of course, representatives of either the house mentioned or civil society. So, it's a very varied palette. And surely the world of Radiotelevision is an institution that is well aware of the situation in the house. What they were like and what they are now. I am very pleased that we have received today, of course, again, I regret, just before the meeting, the Members of the document, the starting point for the strategic business plan of the Public Institute Radiotelevision Slovenia by 2005. And, of course, with a comprehensive report on the operation of this institution in 2000. Over the years, there have been speeches about what major financial problems Radiotelevision Slovenia is in, and also that their business from year to year has brought more red numbers. So, I was very pleasantly surprised when I found out that this trend had finally turned into a positive direction. Now I ask myself, why such a media coup at the decision of the Radiotelevision Council on this decision. According to my reasonable explanation, the decision is clear. The Radiotelevision Council should be concerned that this house, Radiotelevision Slovenia, will act positively and, of course, also have a clear vision of its plan. And I think the union echoes are different. We have, of course, received a negative position by the press union and, of course, the positive position of the Slovenian broadcasters' unions. Mr Anderlič said yesterday in his presentation of the opinion of the LDS Group that "the Group of Members has decided, irrespective of the transitional opinion presented by the Court of Auditors". It is said that it is a political decision that, according to the elections, it is also necessary to replace the leadership of RTV and, of course, it is possible to use the soft version of Czech syndrome in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, you have this possibility entirely to do it, even with this majority. However, I do not think that there are in fact any definitive reasons at this time to justify, except for political motives, this decision. There is no legal decision on any offence, no final report by the Court of Auditors, even the fact that a preliminary report has probably come from this esteemed institution to the public. So, the public's impact on the final decision of the Court of Auditors. I think we must first of all ask ourselves at this point where this country goes or what role the so-called institutions, which we say must be independent, independent of daily policy. I'm sure the decision is already well known in this Chamber today. However, this decision will probably have no long-term positive consequences, especially for the development of democracy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate that has now opened at the decision of the National Assembly or whether or not to agree to the appointment of the Director-General of Radiotelevision is essentially a cause for discussion on many problems which are not, of course, solely related to this function. It is objective that problems related to national media in this country have accumulated for many years, that after the first attempts to solve things in a democratic state, after the first free elections, there have been many steps that have led back, and that some of the forms that, by name or by way of composition, may have little bearing on some normal practice of regulating national media - here I think specifically on the world of RTV - have completely lost the content that would have been necessary to make it work normally. Slovenian Radiotelevision is a public institution, a national institution. Taxpayers give 16 billion dollars a year to get a national product there. If we look at what we get from this institution, then we see that this institution has only 18% of its own production, Slovenian audio-visual production, and the rest is in some way the content with which it competes with commercial televisions and radio stations. If we have this share in front of us, then we can find that Slovenia does not have a national television house, but that we have a commercial that manages public funds, as we have heard in recent months, very uneconomically. There's a lot going on here. Without the Court of Auditors' report, I also know some things for which TV management could not possibly get a positive opinion or position, and at the same time, of course, this institution is still collecting money from commercial advertising. The problem is already at the heart of the status of this institution, which is by name national, and after content and after production it is national in 18%. I don't think there's a national television house in a comparable European country where it would be so small. Nevertheless, this is still the institution that offers the highest quality programme in this offer. But this is far below what should come from this house in terms of the money invested. The National Assembly in its previous composition amended the law or provision for payment of the RTV subscription, so that it now pays the RTV subscription to everyone who is the electricity customer. People now, not even by not paying the subscription fee, are having a hard time protesting what they do not agree on in terms of the quality offered by television screens or productions. And this is the question that this National Assembly, which is the "de facto" founder of this Nationality, will have to deal with because it adopts legislation regulating its status and its position to agree to the first person of this House, will have to deal with it. No matter what vote today, whether consent is given or not, this problem will remain because it does not start with Chad and will not end with Chad. We have heard the assessment of respected colleague Tonet Partljič, who was very stressed, also on the front pages of the newspapers, who said: "I watch television. I'm not happy with what I see. That's why I know exactly how to vote." Now, if there were viewers sitting in this hall who would meet by chance, that would be about the way they would argue their position. Now the Members may need some further argument. The fact is, what we see on TV or what we hear from radio receivers and what's bad is not just the result of a bad TV director. This is probably also due to the fact that under the RTV law, the director of this house also shuts down the work of programme directors. This last director didn't do it. There was some kind of silent agreement, some kind of feudal division. Just when this CEO ran the business, how he ran it, we heard a lot. But others took care of the program. Mostly the same people, who 12 years ago, when Roška happened or the Congress Market, were speeding up the footage of these events, so today you have almost nothing in the National Archive from those times. The same people who created the programme before democratic changes in Slovenia are also creating it today. Those of us who are a little older are reminded of Mr Peng's action against an alternative culture, how all the punks he has branded these young boys as fascists. Let us remember the shows prepared by Mr Lipusček and which we would hardly say contributed to Slovenian democracy. And who else could say anything about who created this program, but now in these times, the pieces were mostly about Mr. Chad, was not mentioned. The problem therefore did not begin on the day this last Director-General was elected, nor will it end when he is no longer or will not be resolved when the Director is no longer. Things escalated when the world of RTV was elected as such, which is certainly not a representative of some viewers. In this world, there are many people who have certainly worked well there all the time, who have worked hard to achieve something, but there are many who are interested, related, or otherwise bound to the operation of this house and, of course, cannot make an unburdened decision. And there are other connections. The political orientation of this body was clear when the Council elected Mr Kocjančič as its President, who in fact moved from the chair of a party with a long history which is not exactly the brightest in this country to the chair of the Council of the National Radio Television House. The Council, the body that elected Mr Kocijancič as President, will also, for the next time, certainly elect someone who I do not know if he will be much better than Mr Chadje. However, the criteria that led to the election of a body as President of someone who is sold as a civil society are more political than anyone in this country, and these criteria can bring in anyone as Director-General of RTV, or as Director-General, in the next term. It's hard to do better. Because this is somehow not in line with the orientation of this institution that calls the matter. Even a paradoxical situation has occurred to show that Parliament has even in this composition, as it is, which has not elected this world or its 5 or 6 representatives to this body, even a healthier position than this institution itself. And when the National Broadcasting Act changes, it would be very good to consider how to put this body together. We have now come into a paradoxical situation where a body that is supposed to be composed of civil society, institutions that are not burdened by politics, comes into conflict with virtually all journalists, most of the creators of the same house programme, practically with all the creative employees in this house, and this collective turns practically to that last institution that still decides here, this is to this Parliament that gives consent to this function. This paradox is far from what happened in the Czech Republic. Now the situation here is quite reversed, much more complicated, pointing to the different nature of the Slovenian transition and to the different complications that may follow. It is clear that it is now possible to say, as Mr Podobnik said before, that the procedure has been corrected. The Council voted correctly, in accordance with the existing rules, and the result is legal. Here we have a proposal that the National Assembly must decide on. It was followed by a procedure which was formally corrected and which was a little late. No one asked themselves, even after they had pointed out why the RTV Council had given the call too late, so that the authority had to appoint the perpetrator of the duty because the mandate of the previous Director had expired earlier, before Parliament had met at all. I do not believe that Mr Kocijancič has not heard about this in relation to the next meeting. This was clear without us hearing, because we have adopted a calendar of the work of this national assembly in due time. When we asked Mr Kocijancič at the election and appointment committee meeting, why the delay had occurred, he said that because there were some holidays, they had moved a little. That's a bad excuse. Someone has already planned certain complications with this "timing" call, in my opinion. Why and with what motives, I don't know, but I'm sure that's not the kind of thing that could just happen. And it is also very interesting that none of the members of the world have highlighted this. So now the problem was double. First, it was decided on by the Director, one of the candidates who applied for the invitation, and then the same body had to decide on the D.D. because there was no meeting of the National Assembly. So that's also why this whole thing was so culminating. The thing can also be positive if all that is happening is the reason for a serious debate on the status of a national, if there are some changes, if this money, which is now provided by taxpayers' funds, subscribers, virtually everyone, and if they watch television or not, only if they have an electric counter in the house, is used to provide better working conditions, but of course the programme will be better, because sometimes it is that someone has good working conditions, far from being able to do it enough for a better programme; this is just one of the conditions, there must also be a will. I do not believe that it is only the Director-General of television who is responsible for the fact that only 18% of his own Slovenian production is in this institution, which is a national institution. We are very much in favour of this or it is also the responsibility of those who regulate the issue of the subscription, systematically, that is, the legislation. With this decision, which we voted against when it comes to the electrical subscription or the power station, we gave only silence to the people in this institution. This National Assembly, as founder, I think that it has never before been a serious substantive debate on this institution since 1990, always only about certain segments or individual problems, of course even in yesterday's discussion, as it is now. At this meeting of the assembly, we have changed the law on RTV. In recent days we have also received a proposal for an asset from the company of journalists on TV. In this proposal, practically everything is in order to support, at least as far as our position is concerned, such a return of consent to the collective. By taking the opportunity of agreement in the previous assembly to appoint certain editorial functions to the collective, the collective took all the power, everything that had previously ensured some balance and had a significant impact on the approximately credibility and independence of this institution. And this national council will do a lot if it corrects this mistake. Then it will certainly be less likely that things in such an institution will be exacerbated by some form of union struggle. While this is happening elsewhere in the world, it is very rare and somewhat unusual; it shows that things are not properly arranged. Also, these provisions, which refer to or these proposals by journalists relating to the composition and appointment of restrictions on the composition and designation of the Radio Television Council, are something that should already be and is normal throughout the world. So there's no one sitting there who's in business with the house. There can't be anyone sitting there who's related to people. So it can't get to the situation that we now have in the world of Radiotelevision. Radiotelevisions, because these debates over the last days and weeks and months are mainly about television, and I think the situation of national radio is even worse. Also because this Director-General does not practically deal with the radio. Some normal balance or some independence of national radio is far from what it should be. The situation is exactly the same as it was 15 years ago. This radio was trying to balance only 6 months of the Bajuk government when, whenever a minister performed, someone from the opposition immediately appeared at the same time. Now, after the elections, we get there whenever we want, Mr Rope, who spends an hour in the studio at 17th reading the budget, no representative of the opposition has about that possibility, and even in all other broadcasts it is mostly so. You've got two sentences to put in a different position. Government positions are presented in one or two hours and are supported by many comments as well as ironic teasers on various occasions and in nominal terms of information shows. Thus, when it comes to the question of independence or some balance in this house, there is even more difficult work to do here, and we should also pay some attention to it. Yesterday's attempt to vote quickly on this agreement, one way or another, has been said by one, the importance of ending it, shows that some do not have this debate. Now you want to sweep things off the table as soon as possible, say, we gave our consent, we didn't give our consent, but it's over. I doubt that those who have really scissors and canvas in their hands with regard to the national and who have a convincing majority in the world of Radiotelevision - this majority has also elected Mr Kocijancič as President - have no plans to move forward. There's probably a candidate waiting somewhere, and there's probably some coordination going on in the coalition that's about to jump into this place. I want to know what's going to happen in the next few days. If this happens - it is practically stupid for Mr Chadje to vote, given what has happened, even in the light of how it worked. No matter what the background is, the purchase of this mandate is not positive, but I am very interested in what will happen next. If the successor, if we don't give our consent, give our non-trust to the RTV Council or nothing happens there, this world will meet next time, give a new call to the new director and decide on the new director in the same composition, then we haven't done anything. The automatic consequence of the negative agreement at today's meeting must be or should in normal circumstances be the immediate withdrawal of the whole world. It's the only thing that would make it possible for things to start to work out. If nothing happens, if only Chad is left without consent, the same body that named him twice, but now he's going to name someone else, we're not going anywhere, we're just going to have donkey ears and we're going to be wondering what it was actually about here, and things are going to go in a negative direction. That is why, of course, I expect, even from those who have worked very well in this world and who have nothing to do with various related and business sciences, that if today's decision is negative, if there is no consensus, they will resign as members of the world and thus allow the matter to begin to be resolved and there will also be a debate in this forum on how else to draw up this world, how else to shape it, so that the situation will not happen again. So as far as this is concerned, we must be grateful to the press that they have opened the matter up or that it has led to a point where this discussion is even possible. It has tried several times before and has been virtually impossible to discuss, now not only because of its views there in the centre of Central Europe, in the Czech Republic, but also because of this discussion, it is possible and I suggest that we do so. No one will benefit if the device ends only by agreeing yes or no. The first opportunity is already in this session, because the law on RTV is changing. Those who now have a mouthful of support for journalists will be able to prove themselves once these provisions in the form of amendments are made to this law, which we will decide on at this meeting. Then we will see if you will vote in favour of the collective agreement you have taken from them, then we will see if you will support all these provisions, which actually make it impossible for a world that is supposed to represent all the viewers and a balanced institution to make an extension of the former central committee. Then we will see, then, whether we really are for the independence of this house, or whether we are for it to be a national who works in the national interest of producing the programme, balanced, impartial, which is a national and non-governmental institution, as far as television is concerned, as far as Radio is concerned. I think that the matter has come to this point where even in Slovenia it will not be possible to make an easy decision by the same body, without having any consequences, to adopt two completely opposite views, because of course this is not about any knowledge of wrong conduct, but usually about the calculated consequences and the consequences that do not lead to things being settled. So I am very pleased with this discussion, which will continue when we discuss the law on Radiotelevision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Janša. Do you want to replicate as your first login? Mr. Anton Partlich and Mr. Borut Pahor. I'm just asking for an explanation, Mr. Stemberger, did you sign up for a replica or a debate? Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	I would like to thank you, Mr Janša, that in your, most of the time, in my humble opinion, a very quality debate in some detail, you have mentioned my name in the meantime and have allowed me to say something out loud that did not seem so important to me that I would apply for a word. It is true that on Queaz, as some criterion of how I will act, I mentioned that I watch television every night or so was written - I did not expect this to receive any special attention in the public. First of all, I don't watch TV every night, I have to admit, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday I don't watch it. But when I go back to Maribor - that's why I don't have it so I can read or do anything else - and I look at it quite greedyly, precisely enough and I get angry all over again, because I watch all these weekends, how a young man or a young woman learns to run entertainment shows and nothing else, and I can see very little actually quality. Already in this session, I was warned by President Kviaz, Mr Školč, saying that it is also a radio, that it is also an area of broadcasters and that it is not just so superficial, through television, that I abstained from this announcement in the decision-making process at Kviaz - which is visible there because we are voting by raising our hands - because it somehow seemed incorrect to me. But through this statement - I also know that he is a television editor and that the director of television - I just wanted to say metaphorically that I wasn't personally interested in the procedures that run against Mr. Chadje, nor in the political opinions that are being discussed here so much, but that there is one thing that you are now also really interested in - I hope we will use in these discussions - that we, in some way - the country is the founder of this national television - but it doesn't matter what the program is. And we're really gonna have a chance now. I think that, unlike you - although I do not agree with some opinions, it is not essential, although it seems to me that you have said just the right things - I think we do not vote on the world of television, whether it is a discharge or not, but perhaps they should think about it themselves. We are voting on one decision of this Council. I just miss what national television is supposed to do. Mr Čadež has told me many times - with him I have always had a very good relationship - so he complained that he can't do much more because it's a big hole and he has to fix this hole first and that he can and I think that he's doing it in some way and that he doesn't have time for other things. I had a lot of experience myself, and even to my home, I had a van with ten people on TV taped a few minutes of conversation, and I didn't know what they were doing there. After all, the one who was supposed to have a conversation with me was gone and had already gone back to the van to get back to Ljubljana without doing anything. I didn't think he was going to get away with it, either, or what he somehow thought he was going to do on that little detail. But it's different, because I just imagine national television completely different. I think that in many countries the program should look different, and at least I think about the political part, even what you think is biased, on the other hand, it seems to us that they are biased in some way. On Sundays, I'm looking at these conversations. The last one was with Mrs. Cerarov. It seems to me that Mr Drobnic also had enough opportunity to say what he was judging, so that I am not interested in this political part. I think we should be more demanding to institutions than we are to universities to our institutions, so I think we should have the highest criteria. And when I go to Paris, for example, I see how the French public and politics represent national television, where there is no danger that it is only necessary to build civic consciousness, national consciousness, etc., so I don't think much about propaganda. I mean in particular the artistic program in the Slovenian language, which is simply absent from films, television and is always just a money problem. And if I only say about the replica, what kind of revolutionized me, that I disagree, and I don't think the CEO can be irresponsible for these things. Also the famous sequel that we just had and written by my excellent friends, which I respect very much, ends in some holiday year, by just loving this grueling Slovenian people. I am such an approach to national pride when we want to go somewhere to Europe, I simply do not imagine. And who covers it with their name and their apron? This is how I said that the programme, and otherwise I am aware that there are other areas of work and that others are concerned about the programme, but I would not be responsible - and now I will not explain how I am going to vote. Otherwise, I was gonna say it in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	I agree with most of Janša's comments because during his performance he also wondered whether I had consulted the President of the RTV Council. I have to tell him and everyone that I did not consult because I did not see any need for it, nor do I have the authority to do so. That would mean that I have some personal interest in this, and I don't have it. That I have a political interest, and I don't. My interest, as one of the 90 Members and Members of Parliament, is probably the same, is to judge today in this way in our decision to benefit from the function performed by this public institution. Things aren't arranged there and they're not good. It's clear to everyone now. And I think this may be one of the arguments in the decision. I wish that today, or when the National Assembly decides, it is my decision to start to regulate things with all the sequences, including the Council's consideration of its mandate. That's how I'm gonna vote. This decision will not give rise to the position of the Court of Auditors because it is not definitive. It would be unfair if that was an argument for a decision. What worries me, as one of the '90s, is the situation in this public office, on national television, which must be autonomous from politics. Today, politics has only this responsibility to enable the public institution, in accordance with its competences, to play its role autonomously. And when we discuss this law - here I agree with my colleague Janša - we also need to pay much more attention to the things we are going to discuss for this situation. By explaining this, I felt that it was necessary for someone in this room not to think that there had been any political complaints about how we would solve this problem. I wasn't interested in it, it's not my personal interest, it's not my interest. Comrade Janez Kocjančič is a representative of the Olympic Committee, not a party, in the world of RTV. Our decisions are taken autonomously and are taken autonomously by us in the parliamentary group and must be adopted autonomously by this Parliament. I said what will be the argument for my decision today. The argument is, with our decision to help start to regulate things in a public institution, so that the information part of the public institution will perform its function completely autonomously, including from the policy, that the new composition of the RTV world will probably have a civil level function in which politics will not go down or be allowed to go down, and which will ultimately lead to national television being watched by television and, last but not least, a respected media when it comes to matters of national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	I think I was misunderstood by Mr. Pahor. I think it would be right for those who started this procedure when they called for the appointment of a new Director-General to inquire about how the meetings of the National Assembly will be held, so that the end of the term of office would not fall in the meantime and the Council should be appointed by the Council before Parliament has even decided on the consent. It was an absurd situation. Therefore, if the person who started the procedure did not know when it would be possible to decide on the agreement, then he had some calculation, but he is not so stupid as to know what he would have to do in the end. So it wouldn't be wrong for you to hear from each other, not about the content, but about the procedure. As far as independence is concerned, who is represented by Mr Kocijancič. You know, this argument is similar to the argument made by that member of the Radiotelevision Board, who was cashing from Radiotelevision's management for a matter he performed as a national, and now in the world of Radiotelevision, he claims that he is there not representing his company, but representing the society of small animals breeders. Such independence is very questionable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	I repeat to Mr Pahor or ask him for an explanation. Did he mean by talking about autonomy in the information field, which is of particular interest to us Members because of the political dimension of these content on television? Did he think that the information program was non-autonomous with regard to the Director-General? In fact, there are a lot of chefs, ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that the Director-General is one of the less influential in terms of the information programme. I have the impression that this is almost a bit of a relationship with the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Replica, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	What I want is for journalists to be able to do their job in their work, especially in the national media, despite attempts by politicians who will, will be and will be, professional. In time, a culture will be built here, in which it will be clear that politicians have their own circle of competence, even one in which journalists cannot cut down with their comments, and that absolutely journalists have their own circle of competence, where no political intervention can be interfered with. This culture is created, perhaps by today's discussion. That's what I'm fond of, my friend Peterle. I, I must be honest with you, do not deal specifically with public relations, nor do I know exactly the relationships of competence and the responsibilities of the leading people. What I do know, given the situation in recent weeks, is that things are not the most orderly and that, of course, someone is responsible. Today, the National Assembly can use its decision to help regulate matters. I mentioned, however, and because I referred here to my colleague Janša, whom I agree that we, when we take the following legislative decisions, should also be careful to take a step forward towards the autonomy of work. None of us, none of us, can say that one way or another, is trying to influence how, of course, our work will be reported. However, I think it is right that we come up with instruments that will allow those who report to make this limit very clear. That is why I am inclined to choose such a composition of RTV, in which no politicians will sit, no politicians, anyway, no one who would be able to tell him that it is biased in this regard, because it falls and stands to be the autonomy and authority of the RTV world. The problem of the RTV world today is that it is obvious to it that there are people in it who do not actually speak on behalf of civil society but of political parties. And that's bad. This is bad for political parties, this is bad for the autonomy of this institution and this is also bad for Parliament, which must end up facing such a debate in its decision. Therefore, I believe that today's debate can also help us to reach the RTV world in regulating relations within the public institution, whose composition will be such that the parties will not be affected by the governance of this institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Explanatory note, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Yesterday I also raised the issue of a principled attitude towards civil society, which, with some decisions, has been helped by this house, partly by many. I would like our debate and our decisions to lead to a stronger civil society after this. Of course, on such simple explanations that someone who has been - I am sorry that this discourse is only about the party that the Member is chairing, but not so long before that has been chaired by a gentleman who is now the President of the Council and is supposed to be completely depoliticised from then on. I don't believe in such a laziness that you take off your skin like a snake and move on with another, in some other quality. I won't be able to buy that. Apparently, the world of RTV is, even though there are only five politically designated people or chosen in this house, it is also politicized and some political innocence is probably not for sale here. People, as we have already heard, also have different interests there, and it is very important, in my opinion, to be a representative of some part of civil society and have an influence in this world on which much depends after all. As far as information is concerned, I'd like to draw attention to something, not a past fact. Look, I was particularly interested in how it is possible that a key event in the past year, as far as decision-making in this house is concerned, after the change in the law on pensions or on the TV pension system has not been made either by the Reactions or by the Surrender for or against, say. Ladies and gentlemen, if that wasn't politics! And in the house I asked myself very highly and I said how you call it that national television, which should be particularly careful - this even in the statute reads - to the individual layers of this population - was involved in the most "grieved" political way in this game, in this Christmas postcard that you sent to the Slovenian pensioners. And I said, "What do you call it," and they said, "we covered it up." Ladies and gentlemen, that was obviously a political fact! They didn't even ask, and I didn't hear the press say anything about it or protest. Three weeks later, the first broadcast was about a change in the pension system. It's a perfect policy for me, but it's the lowest kind. The complete service was also a television major coalition in this case. Some other things have already been explained in this direction. So the world up, the world down, it's gonna be here or it's gonna be politics. I wish that today's decision would not further entangle the ills of this policy because of the appetites, this time of the most powerful, who think that they have too little power in this trough.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. He also wants to replicate Mr Janša. Dear colleagues! However, given that many of the debaters are still reported, the replicas would limit themselves to an explanation to a colleague if their implementation was misunderstood. Here you go, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Well, as Mr Pahor suggested, in the world of RTV, only people with no political history could have solved part of the problem, but only part of the problem. But what is now largely evident to the Director-General and the circle around him is not so much a political link, but it is business corruption. Here are things that, of course, have a bearing on the program. Getting the state-of-the-art news car, which only serves for the transmission of sports events, and those reporting from Parliament report on the phone, of course it is not entirely unrelated to the fact that the President of the RTV Council is the President of the Olympic Committee and that a lot of money is turning there. Of course, this also affects the program. Especially in this segment, when it comes to sports, advertising and this additional commercial activity of a nationalist, there are the biggest systemic errors. Here a national competes with commercial television, even though we don't have it. That's why we pay it out of public money and then, of course, there are political connections. Now, as is happening on commercial television, it's morally questionable and, of course, it's not nice, but at least we're not paying for it from public money. When, say, a journalist like Tillen Maynardi, at the time of the Bajuk government, he criticized the government one day because it irritated the gasoline and the other day because it was cheap, and it is completely without any professional and moral integrity. And then this same journalist becomes the chief of staff at Mr. Rope, who is now a finance minister, it's depraved and a little strange and of course has nothing to do with journalistic professionalism. But that's what happens on a commercial who makes his own money. However, the national is paid from public funds. Here, of course, it doesn't matter whether an editor of an information programme constantly deals with lunches with the secretaries-general of government parties and where all these things connect and negotiate or whether this same editor carries a tape with a broadcast that has not yet been broadcast to the president of the country to better prepare for his performance. But these are things that need to be prevented by systemic solutions, people who do these things there will not even think of doing that. Not that he then apologizes for being normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Janša for a moment. In his last performance, he mentioned business corruption. These are the words that deserve attention. So, a specific question. Is the candidate proposed by the Council of RTV and the Council of RTV also obliged by law to lead, if such reasons are such as to define them and decide them "for" or "against" whether the proposed candidate is therefore somehow connected in such business corruption? Some news car was mentioned, we're more active in sports. However, in this case, with the connections or equipment of the National Assembly, Parliament and other state institutions as I know it, a number of efforts have been made over the past years to make the connection between our house, Parliament, as quality as possible with the link and otherwise with the national house. [[...]] I have no record of any business corruption involving a candidate. If you have any information, please tell them. This will affect my decision. I don't have any.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša applied to the replica. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that it is not good to operate in such an easy manner with convictions and with words that do mean crimes. But here it goes, in the country we have institutions dealing with it. Mr. Janša's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	I fear that not you, not Mr Podobnik, have not listened because I have said that what is evident to the current RTV leadership is not obvious about political connections, but rather business corruption. I didn't say it was true. What journalists report to the management - we talked to them earlier and they showed us these contracts - this is a suspicion of business corruption. If you have any better words for it, tell him. Actually, that's what this is about. However, as far as this great effort is concerned to modernise matters when it comes to covering the work of the national assembly, it is not to be seen. Maybe now they're calling instead of analogues, along ISDN lines. That's what's been going on for ten years. This national has not been able to ensure in ten years that, for example, parliamentary initiatives and questions are directly passed on, even in Croatia for seven years. Nor is this the most varied and even for viewers of the interesting part of Parliament where things are being cleared, even when it comes to the specific problems of these viewers, this nationalist is not able to endure four hours a month. That didn't happen either. But when it comes to a sports event where it's "cassified" - I don't mind that it's being tolerated, but there's no need for a double technique. When it comes to celebrations at Cankarjev's home at the Slovenian cultural festival, even the festive speaker has to point out that the matter is transported by auxiliary technique. I don't know how much that kept them around, but what we saw there certainly didn't sound like any normal equipment for the transfer of the state event. If this was commercial television, then it's okay. He has to go where he pays. This is what we pay from taxpayers' funds, which is why this institution must act as a national institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. In view of Mr Janš's explanation, which first took place, he merely expressed his position on some who raise the issue of business corruption, and then repeated himself that he had seen some documents - but this is an important issue. Therefore, if the legal culture on the presumption of innocence is in force in this house, it is necessary to ask whether there is specific information on the alleged suspicion or on the police charge. I don't have that information on my own. As I know, the world of RTV dealt with these issues before it decided. So, what's on it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	There is an appeal made by journalists a year and a half ago - this has been discussed and written at the time when we discussed the suspension of consent to appoint certain functions - and there is a report by the Court of Auditors, which is not definitive. We cannot therefore say that this is a fact that we take as a final argument. But because there are some findings, and if you read the matter, or if you read what the society of journalists explains, you see that it will be difficult to contradict, because there are contracts that are signed, where the amounts are written, and everyone who looks at it sees that things are not normal. We cannot say, however, that there has been any final judgment, and on this basis we will not be making decisions either. We will decide whether the situation has improved at this time or has not improved on the basis of what this television leadership has done in the last four years. The fact that someone says that the business has improved, that it is now more money, and to take credit for it, forgive me, this is not serious, because this National Assembly has changed the way the subscription was collected and thus the treasury has been filled. As a result, the programme should be better and the situation should be improved. As far as they're concerned, it doesn't look like anything. All I know is that what's happening is happening in a similar way or in a worse way than it's happened before. The National Assembly will decide on the agreement on the basis of a proposal from the RTV Council and should decide on the basis of an assessment of what has moved in this mandate. If the assessment that it went well, then there is no serious argument that we would not give consent, but if the assessment that it was not going well and that the irregularities were such or different, we are not the court or the police in order to deal with the evidentiary proceedings, then it is probably not possible to give this consent. But when it comes to a person, he's not allowed to accuse anyone of committing a crime if it's not proven to him. I agree with that, and I didn't do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. An assessment of what's moved over the last period. Who's doing it? Who's responsible for this? It wasn't made on the working body. I don't think it's a question of whether this is a jurisdiction when we decide on this position here, that's in plenary. However, the report of the parent working body states and I think that this is a good conclusion that it has been pointed out that the powers conferred by the supervisory committee, whose majority of members, not only part, have been appointed by the national assembly in relation to the operation of the public institution RTV Slovenia. Would it not be logical to receive a report from the Supervisory Board if we were appointed for the majority of us and would answer these questions in this report? As for the Court of Auditors' report, however, I believe that it is only right that we respect the procedure. The procedure is not over, but we also have a committee of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances in the National Assembly, and this can undoubtedly be dealt with once this report is legally, too. However, if the Court of Auditors finds such irregularities and errors and is objectively responsible for those responsible for this public house, that is to say for RTV Slovenia, then the proposal to resolve it will be credible if it is confirmed here today. It's the only correctional procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I think we can end the replication here, because it was clear, however, that the presumption of innocence is a concept which the National Assembly fully respects. We can proceed with the debate in order: Mr Aloise Peterle, Mr Drobnic Janez and then Mr Puksic. Here you go, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Your Honor! Yesterday I pointed out the question of duality of criteria. It is not only what we decide, but also how we decide and on what basis we decide. I have already said that in our parliamentary group we will not assume the role of a substitute law enforcement body, not on the police side, not on the prosecution side, and we want to do our job with all our responsibility. We do not want to be in the midst of any current interest on one side or on the other, so we also speak completely sovereignly. However, not only do we want this house to stick to the same rules of the game when it comes to events or facts of the same type. Look at this, my dear fellows. The Court of Auditors has given its opinion with reservation to the functioning of the Prime Minister's Office and I do not hear any calls for the Prime Minister to resign because he is objectively responsible for what has happened there. Also, the Secretary-General, I have not heard that he would be under any control or public suspicion and pressure to resign now. You see, once like that, once like that. As long as this is the case, of course, it will be bad in this land, and Hangek will also have rooms full of people who will demand justice because of their injustice. I expect you to pay the same attention in cases where a reservation or a finding concerns people of the ruling coalition. We have no doubt the opportunity to learn a little more about these matters, which are in public, but not yet proven. Why not use and take a look at those working bodies that have the opportunity or formal basis to discuss it. After all, the house is not uninhabited or has this time v.d. And we can take time to do that. My second part of the debate concerns once again the issue of civil society. If we are to vote in disagreement, then this means, in the first place, not trusting the Council. Of course, I would say less to a candidate, whom I am neither an advocate nor an opponent, but I would like to know that this house operates with the first principle, as it should be. Although it has to be said that the rules in many respects are not precisely defined and we have the opportunity to amend the RTV law in order to clarify them more precisely. In view of all that is in the air, I propose a very precise consideration of how we feel about civil society. In any case, the attitude towards this non-trust or consensus will be the attitude towards civil society. I really don't want us to be in the middle of some kind of interest. I would also like to know how there are two versions of the business plan. There are things going on here that are always investigative commissions. If things don't happen on the other side, then it might be possible to make the house take a closer look, given that the crisis situation is being talked about, what is true here and what is not true. I don't want to make any decisions based on fog. In one version of the business plan received by the company's world, such findings are not found in the version received by Members. I want to know where this "dated" happened, as it says on the computer, but it can only be pressed, and it's gone. I want to know who did this. Look, there's a thousand questions about this. I am convinced that the name of the former and current Director-General is not a key name in this game. The Director-General, regardless of how it is written when we are talking about the programme, must, if I am properly instructed, obtain the written consent of the editor of the information programme in order to be able to perform in the "its" media. I'm guessing there's a permit that the Director mentioned has been given to perform, I don't know, in a Turnout or somewhere else. So if he was so programmedly powerful, then of course he wouldn't need that kind of agreement from a lower level. I'm talking about being honest with the situation or with the people. It would be possible to think a lot further - why at this very moment it is such a need for things to change, why there was no such power before. I fully understand, given the facts cited by the unionists or the press union, why they want a certain clearance. I know they didn't start yesterday or three days earlier than the Court of Auditors, who then sent the report, but they started about two years earlier if I was properly instructed. And I can't judge their current interest. I would like to know how the fresh historical memory will continue to be erased before the celebration of Slovenian independence. I know that there is a very interesting debate in this house about what can or will not come down. It'll be here again, ladies and gentlemen, politics! The Director-General is here, I'd say, relatively tight. Perhaps these things should also be reconsidered, whether it would not suggest programming powers to be arranged in a different way, because, thanks to or some interpretation of some independence, some autonomy, politics is going on at levels, I would say, autonomously, but politics is happening, not autonomy, which some of you are talking about. So, I wouldn't want us to decide here on a dry, neck-to-neck emergency situation, as some of you have said, because at this point, there is some option that this matter is one, two, three offices. If it is so bad, then let us take time to see what is true and then let us make up our minds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to express my own opinion on the appointment of Mr Chadez as Director-General of RTV. Yesterday, after a strange meeting of the National Assembly, we managed to bring the matter in somehow so that it was at least appropriate for force. But I don't want to be a "fresno" Member to attend the same sessions as it was yesterday. Anyway, my word applies mainly to this point. This whole procedure and discussion shows a major problem for public television or public RTV, a public institution. The appointment of Mr Chadez and all that's going on around here is just the tip of the iceberg. That is why we will need a serious debate in Parliament. And not only that, when we adopt the Radio-Television Act, we will, of course, have to seriously consider that these things will not happen to us. Apparently, events run differently than anyone else's made a political arrangement. It's a bit of a twist. I wouldn't talk about it, so those creators who somehow put it up, they're having a breakdown, and now they're looking for new solutions. As has already been said, we as a group have adhered to the principles. Yesterday, we were told that we wanted to maneuver and avoid the decision to appoint. Above all, this has been heard from Mr Potsch. We did not propose a postponement to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly in order to obtain a final report from the Court of Auditors, we wanted and demanded that this be dealt with. That's what we're still asking and nothing changes. However, we were against such a manoeuvre that this point would have been dealt with yesterday because we wanted relevant information, professional information regarding the appointment of the Director-General. We wanted to meet with representatives of journalists, this is civil society of independent journalists, to tell them about this house, what it is to get a comprehensive picture so that we can make an expert decision. I do not object to Mr Tonet Partlič's position that he should decide on the basis of how he likes television. It's his decision, sovereign. But I do have an opinion on this. I can decide how much I like television this afternoon, too. I prefer sports events, so I'll probably look through it first. My neighbor, who likes to watch TV novels, prefers to decide on other programs and says that TV is bad. I want to make a point. In order to decide whether Mr. Čadež is appropriate, other relevant information or information should be obtained Mr Podobnik mentioned yesterday that we should look at the starting points for a strategic business plan. I took advantage of that, too, from yesterday to today. I've got a version since January 15th. I don't know if it's the right one or not. Mine is this one that I got, and it points to some of the relevant data that the Director-General of Chad himself is exposing. It is also signed under this. If we look at, say, page 44, we see how the management evaluates its own house. 9 top management assessors made this assessment. Management style: very bad=1, bad=7, medium=1, good and very good=0. The human resources substructure is rather poor as good, there are no performance criteria and there is no good staffing. The most critical element of the institution is that we have too few people with higher education, that we do not even talk about academic titles. The exploitation of experts is very poor, as it is still more important who you are good with than how good you are. The management crisis is obvious and has had consequences in the areas of mutual relations, company membership and working culture. If this was written by a candidate who wasn't yet CEO, I'd say fine. We accept this as a fact, as a result of someone who led this television before. However, if this is signed by the Director-General, who led this television, he, of course, wrote himself a bad grade. And that's what worried me. I myself, as a Member, will decide how this television works in the field of financial business, management, human resources management and, last but not least, as a Member, as a politician, also how this television is a medium that provides neutral information on political events. All these areas are relevant to me in the decision. On that basis, I will make my decision. Given what it is, I'll make a decision against it. If we look at it, we can also take a comparison between the employees of public television and the private televisions we have, how many employees there are in one, how much there is in the other, how professionally it is done, at what costs. What do we get? The stakes and the proceeds. Based on this, very much on the finger made comparisons, we get a result that's not good for this television. Do we have a choice to make about the CEO? We issue or give consent, pass it or withdraw it, do not give it. Is that what we're breaking? I don't know. Are we in conflict with the world or are we giving it an unbelief? We have the right to express ourselves. If we express ourselves according to these elements, as I have stated, then we will act primarily professionally, responsibly, even politically, because I understand politics as a good thing, which can work well, but of course it is also possible to make poor use of or abuse. In this regard, we are putting the world back in its decision to re-judge the re-launching of the selection process of the Director. This isn't the resolution of the current director. The discharge of the Director-General would also require the final opinion of the Court of Auditors and a variety of other matters. But we're not in a discharge position here, but we're deciding on a new director. When we decide on the new director, we have the right, not the obligation to have equipment for the opinion of the Court of Auditors. We have an open mind. For God's sake, in this Slovenia, we have another person who could be better and handle this situation. If this were to be a discharge within the framework of the mandate, I would vote against the discharge being decided on the basis of such information launched by the Court of Auditors. That's the difference. Now we have a chance to judge. Like any director of his company or a director of a public undertaking, he or she shall decide who he or she will adopt in the next term as Director-General. That's the difference. It's not a political lynching, it's no proof that he violated anything. Of course, these suspicions are mentioned, which, of course, will have to be determined by the relevant authorities, or he will be wronged. I told you my decision. Of course, I expect that, with the aim of resolving the situation on public television, Radiotelevision, we will speak another word and not only speak the word, but also run something. Our citizens are entitled to receive good information, that is, clear, fair information, because they pay a lot for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Reploco wants Mr. Rokavec. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I would refer only to the final part of Mr Drobnik's implementation, which he mentioned, that the rejection of consent at this moment does not constitute any political lynching. In my opinion, this means actually political lynching, from at least two facts: this Parliament is not prepared to wait for the final report of the Court of Auditors, this Parliament is not prepared to ask for the opinion of the members of the Supervisory Committee of RTV Slovenia, which it has appointed and who would in some way be called upon to receive the relevant opinion of the people appointed to supervise this house. That is why I am convinced that at least these two facts - if we go around them, they actually mean a political lynching in the event of a disagreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! A lot of this has already been said today, though. I think there's actually two problems here. In the first place, it is certainly a problem for institutions operating in this public institution, such as the Council, the Supervisory Committee and so on. Clearly, these two authorities have not done their work in this public office. That's a fact. In this public office, they did the work of a union, a society of journalists and so on. However, those who are called and accountable to the public and who are also paid for it have not done so. Firstly, the problem of these two institutes, which did not make their own in the public service of RTV, has already proved to be the case last year, in the previous term, when the legislation has been amended and when the opportunity to give consent to recruitment has been denied to journalists in this national assembly. If these two institutes were to work properly, so in the interest of the public, to the benefit of taxpayers, of course they would have advocated such support in the National Assembly, but that was not the case. Secondly, the problem of this institute is, of course, what happened in our Parliament yesterday, which is of course a great sadness. That someone who makes an argument that someone acting in accordance with the laws and regulations is taking his word. The same was true in the world of the public office, which was to the representatives of workers, journalists, trade unions and so on, when they asked questions, specific questions based on the letter, the writing they had already made a year and a half ago, took little words. Where else, for God's sake, can they get answers if not in the world of the institution? However, of course, in the style of leading the President, the Permanent President of the Council took place as in the style of leading last night towards the end of our meeting. Thank God someone else did it in the end, as much as they solved it and brought it to a different end. Look, ladies and gentlemen! It was written in a newspaper article. Now I'm going to come up with that other problem, the problem of the current director or now v.d. the director and the problem of the decision: support him or not. The Director of the Public Service isn't the Director, I don't know who else is. He is the director of the institution for which taxpayers pay. Several times it has been said in what way. Personally, I was against that way at the time, because I think it's incorrect to raise money for RTV. It is already suspected that corruption is a matter of business, but if this suspicion is raised by the employees of this institution, and if this suspicion is not only written down, but committed in the form of charges against the prosecution, at least what a person would expect in normal democracy, that such a director would, of course, give up. That's the least of it! More. See, in the newspaper, at the end of November 1999, trade unions spotted eight black garbage bags on the fourth floor of Radiotelevision Slovenia building. When they opened it, they found a shredded document. The documents were cut across and the contents could still be understood. One of the "cutters", for example, showed that RTV Slovenia was supposed to pay Despo to rent equipment 300 thousand tolars a day. 300,000 tolars per day of a colleague and a colleague, over 10 months ago, is 900 thousand marks - that's the number that talks about getting a news car. This means that the basic funds would be increased to obtain for the work of journalists in their own home, and therefore I suspect that this was done through rents, etc. In short, that must be a suspicion of business corruption. I am surprised that, in the first place, the Council of the Institute is not from the prosecution, for a year and a half already, the prosecution is also on the case, and not for the first time, but also in this House - that it did not require at least that after a year and a half by the Prosecutor's Office a case be brought forward or suspected. Once again, "paca" is also in our third, so-called independent branch of power. I don't see any reason why it's gonna take so long to get this done. The second, where I see the extreme splinter of the work of this world, is also in their statutes. Colleagues and colleagues, we decide all decisions in public. And that's right. The Council shall have a secret vote in its Statute. Why? In order to hide individuals who, of course, would not be able to make a public decision in one way or another, then hide behind this secret vote, that later when it turns out that it was wrong to lead, that the conduct was contrary to the law, that any standards, accounting standards, a good master, etc. have been violated, to hide behind it. If we were to vote in public, we would, of course, identify ourselves with this policy, which they support. If there is not so much transparency, it is unfortunate that such unprocessed material will now come upon us Members of the National Assembly. In the event that we decide against the decision of the board of institutions, it may actually seem very strange to the public. This means that the world does not enjoy our support. In fact, his decisions have no weight. If we decide in the national council to support the world and, of course, after all these conclusions, what we find is what the world of the institution has not done, what it could not have done, which it would not have done, we would have extended, but we know that it is not in the interests of the Slovenian public, to which the society of journalists and the press union are thoroughly alert. I expect, as it has been said several times today, that the world of the institution will first know that the responsibility for today's possible vote is different from that of the world's vote, that there is also responsibility in the world, and that the world will pull the consequences and, of course, everyone, from the President on, deviates. On the other hand, I expect from you, colleagues and colleagues that when the RTV law is opened, we will introduce the shortcomings that we are alerting today - and this has been heard, thank God, from all the parliamentary groups - into the amendment of the RTV law, so that we will prevent the possibility of further, first, corrupt business connections and, of course, what seems to me the most normal. See, a member of the Council, any congregation or small congregation in that country, cannot participate simultaneously in the congregation with the activity of his company and so on. However, members of the board of public institutions that are fueled by taxpayers’ money have some contracts that are cited by trade unions, which were cited a year and a half ago, for which they have filed a complaint, because of an article that is also in the newspaper, and so on, they have such strong contracts for the powerful millions, not in tolars, but even in the threshing currency. Of course, this time my decision will be different for the reasons I have stated, as was the decision of the public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janez Sponik. But before that, we will be discussing Mr Peterlet's procedural proposal, and then I would like a replica, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The 24th Article of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia reads as follows: "RTV Slovenia shall have a supervisory committee of seven members. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoints and disposes of five members of the Supervisory Board, while RTV Slovenia employees elect two members in direct elections. The Supervisory Board oversees the operation of RTV Slovenia, reviews the financial plan, periodic accounts and the final account. It examines the proposal for the use of any revenue surpluses and business reports, supervises the management of business books and the legality of business, informs the Council of RTV Slovenia in writing and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of its findings and carries out other tasks set out in the Statute." In view of this, so-called suspicion and the debates that speak in this direction, I think that the minimum standard in relation to our decision-making would be the following, and in this sense I propose a procedural proposal: that Members obtain certain positions or conclusions of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council to see whether that body, which was mostly designated here or elected here, has reached conclusions in this regard and forwarded them to us. I think we can take half an hour or an hour to get this thing. I propose that this point be interrupted, that the texts for Members and that we continue in due course, we can read these materials today. I'm saying I don't want to make a decision. I therefore propose that we obtain the material of the Supervisory Committee, which must have been forwarded to the National Assembly, that we suspend the meeting for a while and continue when Members and Members can see this material.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Given that we have received Mr Lojzet Peterlet's procedural proposal, I am putting this to a vote with the National Assembly, in the following context, that the National Assembly should suspend the work for half an hour and continue it at 11.30 a.m. in order for Members to obtain a report from the Radio Television Supervisory Board. Mr Loizet Peterlet's proposed procedural decision to hold a half-hour suspension session to obtain the report of the Radio Television Supervisory Board, I shall put it to the vote. If I did not understand correctly, Mr Lois Peterle, please form a proposal for a procedural decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	All I'm suggesting is that it wouldn't just be half an hour, because I don't know how long it's gonna take for the services to distribute it. Since it's one hour until the break, I suggest we take this watch and continue at half past three, after we look at the material.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	So, in view of Mr Peterlet's procedural proposal, I propose that we vote on this issue, but we also vote on the decision of the National Assembly to continue at this time of the hour to consider the law amending the wine law, which is next in line, and to continue with the point at 2.30 p.m. when we return from the noon break. This procedural decision is to proceed with the next item on the agenda, and this item is to be discussed at 2.30 p.m. Dear National Assembly, we vote. Of the 72 Members and Members present, 32 votes in favour, 26 against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that, with regard to this item of the agenda, with the debate of Members, we shall continue at 2 p.m. for 30 minutes. At this point, we are moving to the next item in the agenda, followed by the conclusion of the agenda. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine, the Rapid Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Gezo Juban. We are moving on to the first reading of the bill. Given that we've moved on to this point so quickly, I'm asking the proposer if he wants a possible ten-minute break in order to prepare? Mr. Geza Juban? I interrupt the meeting for ten minutes so that the proposers of this item can prepare themselves. Well, at the proposal of one of the candidates, we are continuing the meeting because there is no obstacle. Unfortunately, this is my fault because I only called for the first-signed one; there are more candidates for the law. However, if the applicants are willing to continue with the point, it is good that the State Assembly continues its work. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Here you go, President, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe it's just this break to somehow cut through this plight in the National Assembly. As rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I would accompany this amendment to the law with the next human version I have tracked. In fact, this novel of the law governs the confusion of the exercise, if I say so, and this verse reads as follows: "Dolenj'c must know his vineyard to process, if I did not know it, a drill would seek elsewhere." Well, the proponents followed, I would say, this verse, if I say so, in quotations, and this amendment to the law changes and further prescribes the protection of the geographical origin of grapes and wines, which is also the fundamental principle of the applicable wine law. In addition, the proposed solution also solves the situation which results in unfair competition between grape processors themselves, and thus has somehow led to confusion among consumers on the other hand. The Committee considered this amendment of the law below. We also had a debate on the amendments tabled by Members, and I think that all the conditions for deciding on this law are. You have a committee report on the benches and a review of the amendments, so we can make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? He's not here. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Honorable National Assembly! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to say briefly that we support this change. It is a matter of more precise determination of wine-growing environments for the production of two types of wine, namely a drill and a terrace. This amendment is in relation to a decision of the Constitutional Court which has suspended the implementation of the regulation, in particular the rules on the declaration of pixie in transport, and the Committee on Agriculture has decided and added to this amendment of the law wine terranes. I propose that the Committee endorse the proposal for a law and also support all the amendments supported by the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Is there any other representative of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Possoncheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, Your Honor! On behalf of the higher objectives, we can do something else in this law to resolve the pitch and the drill, which is justified by the speedy process and is the only reason why it is justified to proceed quickly. For example, let us walk, among other things, on good solutions from the previous law. I therefore support the fact that the rapid procedure applies only to the solution of the terrace and the exercise. And I believe that the proposed amendments to the law have exceeded the rules of business - this provision which allows for a rapid procedure - and manipulates Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! I am pleased that we have on our hands or that we have a law before us that will protect this lower one, and that is why in the Socialist Party's Group we support all the intentions aimed at protecting traditional Slovenian values, including the Dolenjska exercise. However, I must say that there are also other types of wine in these specialties, and that is why some amendments are aimed at protecting certain other traditional customs related to wine, and perhaps this law would somehow cut them. I am sure that Europe - and also the exercise - is based on tradition and that we must come from the fact that tradition here is the main argument for protection. However, the argument for protection is also a raise of Slovenian wines, including a drill, a terrace and other types of wine. In the Social Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the law. We will also support certain amendments that would somehow prevent some of the injustices that would occur with the implementation of this law. I am thinking mainly of injustices in the sense that they would now prevent the production of wine and also the cultivation of wine outside the area of the lower wine-growing environment to those traditional producers who have been doing it for 50 years. I believe that tradition must be respected, respected by Europe, so I think that we can respect it, and we allow, even though processors who have their capacity outside the wine-growing environment, while wine is obtained from their own vineyards or through their contractual partners or grapes obtained from the wine-growing environment, I believe that these producers can also market their products under the designation of CTU. I am also pleased that in the negotiations we have been able to come up with a better solution, which is in the basic text of the law, this is that the wine-growing areas of Dolenjska remain within those traditional borders as they have been before and as advocated by all professions. It's the right bank of the Sava, it's the Dolenska region, it's the Valvasor country of Kranje. I think that's right, and I think it would be very wrong to exempt from the lower wine-growing environment of the lowland area and thus create a number of problems, because farmers somewhere have vineyards in higher places, while the cellars have lower ones, and then these people with this basic text of the law would be somehow affected. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Agriculture has taken the efforts and efforts of some Members to correct the limits of the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska and remain as they have been so far and as defined in the Rationisation Regulation; it is said that the existing situation is being summarised. Of course, we will support this change of law in the Social Democratic Party, once again, because we believe that Slovenian specialities need to be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich wants the word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is known as a wine-growing country and everyone who likes grapes in another form knows what quality wine means, and even in an international context we know what it means if a particular brand is protected. I will not be long, so I propose that this law be passed as soon as possible, but we predict that we cannot agree with all the amendments that the matter is spreading beyond certain logical borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support amendments to the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine. This is mainly due to the fact that the production of wines of pixie on one side of the market has resulted in unfair competition and, on the other hand, consumer insurance, which causes long-term damage mainly to the producers of wine pixie. Therefore, with this amendment and the addition of the law, this confusion, which has arisen, has to be eliminated and in some way also - where the negotiations in Chapter VII, which also provides for two exceptions to the acquis of the European Community, are to be abolished in some way also by this amendment of the law, which will also make it possible for the cricket to become a traditional Slovenian wine, even recognised as wine in the negotiations. In the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support all the amendments adopted by the mother's working body and, of course, the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. As no one wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members, I give the floor to the Members. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	I am sorry that in some ways this law is the subject of a kind of easy treatment, but this is a matter that is important for Slovenia, which is at least as important for this country as the Lipicans or something else. This is one of the things that is actually negotiated in Brussels and agreed that Slovenia would become and remain recognizable after two specialities, two things that are something that no country in the world has. And this is a track and this is a drill, and also the chairman of the committee did a little bit of lapsus because he was talking about us talking mainly about regulating the problem of exercise. We're talking about both specifics, both exceptions, and the law applies to this. If we want to compare, say, with other countries and Europe, there is the most remarkable exception, the so-called Chianti. Chianti is so-called a Scripture in the field of exceptions and, of course, in the context of regulating the issue of wine legislation in Europe. That we have not, I am sorry that we have not been able to arrange more detailed boundaries for cultivation, especially a exercise that I would like to talk about in particular. In fact, Dolenjska is such a diverse country, from a clean plain, up to a height of almost 0 to 600 meters. And it is not true that anywhere at these altitudes, on any geological composition of the soil, under any climatic conditions, because there are different conditions within different boilers and so on. And, of course, if someone comes to the market with an issue produced in an area where there are no conditions, within this area where there are no conditions to achieve such quality, it will, of course, do the exercise poorly. But because it sounds good, because it is right to round it up within the lower wine-growing area and that this is a traditionally named area, it is right to stay at that and then the rules and improvements to the quality and quality of the additional conditions that are likely to be achieved by the government's control regulations and so on that this will actually be what has to be – Slovenian special, quality and protected as something that will not be possible to extend the border a little. See, when we talk about these exceptions and about these CTUs, as they say, it is absolutely necessary to define an area. The French have a 200-year-old wine law. Bordojec is set along the road, along the village road, on the right, on the left. It's not about any Sava, it's not about any other province. And, of course, what's a redneck is a world thing, and what's over is good French wine. That's the way it is. And if we want to do something in this country that will be especially, high quality, protected and that we will really be able to go to Europe with it, and this is the first Slovenian and true Slovenian ambassador. Unfortunately, this is so that we can't behave, we can act like we have a good chardonnay, that we have good risling, that we have no idea what else is good. But Styrian Riesling, let's say coastal and so on, compared to Chilean, Australian, French, Italian and so on, means so much or almost nothing, is unrecognizable. We cannot say, however, that it is only because it is from Slovenia. It's about things, of course, here are the stories that connect, from what is included in -- let's say, if we're talking about the drill now, because the terrain is very easy to define: it's a karst planet, it's growing inside of it, it's one vine and it's done. In the case of exercise, however, there is a special feature of the composition, i.e. varieties which are an integral part of this wine, others you will believe, before the grapevine ear in Slovenia there was a similar composition in Styria, such as now - which is the basis, for the tube is velvet black and this is the famous vine on Lent. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm a little out of line, but I just want to wrap it up. And because the vine ears then destroyed the entire composition in Slovenia, even in Styria there was velvet black, kingdom, riesling and so on, and in Dolenjska too; and only that in Lent remained because it was isolated because it was not within the wine-growing area where all the vine ears were eaten. And luckily, we still have that there. And this is the basis and I think there are many stories that can be done around this, and it is worth supporting the basic law, with those amendments that the committee has adopted, by keeping me from the amendment to the Premurje Mountains.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	So a brief replica of Mr. Anderlich's performance. Given that he gave us a lecture on varieties that exist in Slovenia; not exactly as he said about Styria and Dolenjska, but nevertheless. So he said he was very sorry that this law was a matter of easy treatment. So the speedy procedure for this law, of course, was not invented by us in the opposition, because the agenda, as I know, and you set fast procedures elsewhere. And there you probably have the main word, so I must say I disagree with that statement. Perhaps this law has been dealt with in such an extremely rapid manner at your expense. I agree, however, that setting limits on wine-growing environments is an extremely sensitive topic, that someone can be quickly affected and that such a change in law would require one thorough debate mainly on the ground, because there are the most familiar limits, not in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Peterle. Mr Geza Juban spoke to the debate earlier, and then Mr Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wines Act is set out below to be adopted in a rapid manner. At the same time, this is a replica of all those who point out what is allowed and what is not in the quick process, and what is not in the process is also in this part that the speedy procedure, unlike the shorter one, allows other parts of the law to change. As a result, we have assessed that the errors contained in the law in force can be corrected by very small corrections, as also dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture and certain solutions and rejected by some. And when we vote, we will see that these are very small parts of the law. It is true that they are important to some. The most important part is the basic part that speaks of the exercise and the terrace, which also had versions to define the environment first with the annexes, but then also with the coordination of the opposition colleagues - I think that the comments were largely taken into account - found that it is possible with the amendments to eliminate the annexes. In this way, we have also done others, who we have estimated need for some environments that are completely unchanged, but they do not change at all, but only name them so that it is acceptable for all who produce grapes and wine in that area. These are two: the Premur Mountains and the Central Slovenian Mountains, which are or are proposed one like mine, with the 27 signatures adopted by the professional public, it is supported by the business community for wine-growing, not opposed by the government; and similar to the other amendments adopted by the committee that deletes the text of Ptuj from the Central Slovenian Mountains and thus gives us a matter clear enough, transparent and acceptable for all those producing grapes and wine in these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. As one of the few Downers from wine-growing Dolenjska, it is my pleasure to speak respectfully about good wine with the name of pixie, and this is undoubtedly an honor for Dolenjska. However, it is not in honor of this house and Slovenia that the reason why it is necessary to change the law is that it has obviously been flawed, and it is not in honor of our country, especially since we want to move forward towards the European Union, that there has been a practice that I do not only refer to as unfair competition, but I call it domestically. And I don't want the drill to go on what happened. You know the exact story. Farmers and consumers are genuinely affected by this and by the exercise, and no other serious wine, of course, is done with the label, but is done with quality in an area where it is traditionally grown. And I wouldn't want a label ever to appear, as it has now appeared, for the so-called Macedonian refashion. You can get a ref, but you can put up your glasses and take a closer look and learn your origins. But naive people drink this as a Slovenian refosk, but only Slovenian imports of Macedonian drinks. Maybe there's a drop along with the seaside, so the conscience is a little bit calmer. Look, I'm gonna support what the mother's working body supported. I know that this will not all be done so that things like these may still appear. However, I assure you that Dolenjska in this regard will be very, very hard or difficult and will want to be protected and treated as a part of Slovenian identity, not only by Dolenjska. And I know that there will still have to be a lot of fighting in Brussels so that we can build this interest on us, for as good a year as last year has been, which has launched a drill in 10 degrees, it is likely that it will not continue from now on and that we will still have to fight to achieve this interest. So I support this -- I'm going to say it again -- a good intention to make order here, and I hope that's enough if not, but there's still something else to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So my head of the parliamentary group was a little offended that there was not enough attention to this law. At first it did look like this, but I think that this law is important and that it needs to be adopted, although I personally believe that it is necessary to accept it more because some of the services we have in the country and in various areas, as well as in the area of wine quality control, grape cultivation and so on, did not work as they should. And because of this there have been abuses that have essentially done great damage to the name of the crickets, because there have been wine on the market, which also insults me as a Dolenjec and as a winegrower and as the owner of the vineyard within the area, so that we are on the clear and I have no qualms that such a law should be adopted in the best possible text. Of course, at the same time, my belief that injustice should not be done to those who were of course not guilty of anything, they did nothing to blame, that abuse had taken place and that, under the name of the pixie, there was also wine coming to the market, which, in the past, had been preserved by a drill and increased by it, was not an honor. So the wine law that we passed in 1997 in this House has already had a certain debate, including on the subject of a drill and a tyrant. And we already wrote in Article 4 that the category of special traditional designation is the one that already belongs by law to the terrace and exercise, which was also right. Today, of course, we are exacerbating the conditions of processing and filling by this law, which is also right, because there are no abuses that have been reported in the Slovenian media in the past. Of course, many will be affected by this, but it is likely that the National Assembly will decide in favour of such a text as it is, and in favour of amendments, which the Committee on Agriculture has also confirmed, which is also perfectly normal. However, I also propose two decisions to this law, which I will also comment on at the end of the third reading, which also speak of the rules. The story does not always end only with the law, but continues normally and normally in the rules, which then also set specific conditions or additional restrictions on production. Otherwise, I have not withdrawn the amendments I have written to Article 1 concerning Article 4 of the current law and Article 36, although I believe that the scope of processing and filling is Article 36 and the chapter on which it relates, and this is not Article 4. However, if the law is adopted, as proposed, there will be a ban on filling outside the area provided for by the law in the current new Article. However, I believe that this instant compromise, which has been reached on the Committee on Agriculture in relation to the geographical area, also satisfies those vineyards and cellars that have wine cellars outside the rules or laws and live in this area and that there will be no harm in this part. In short, I would like to conclude with a strong awareness of the importance of the protection of the terrace and the exercise, perhaps, and the law allows this, to become another wine in the future such that it will receive the CTU mark, which may also be good for Slovenian winemaking and wine growing, and I will be the law in the final phase, of course, with the desire to make more order in this area than it has been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Personally, I am a winegrower myself, and personally I am from "the same end of the drill" even though I am on the other side and I am producing a buffalo and I am proud of it and I will never sell it under any indication of a cricket, and even less of a CTU drill - because I am proud to have a buffalo, and I am proud of the specifics of Slovenia that it has in a very small area, I would say, even a palette of different types of wine and different specialities, and this also puts us in an enviable position opposite the European Community, because we can show a lot in a very small area. It is for this very reason that I might remind the National Assembly of certain specificities of this area, particularly that it is happening, and it is not uncommon for the inhabitants of Brežica, the Municipality of Krško, who have vineyards or grow grapes in the area of the wine-growing environment in a narrow sense, as proposed by the group of Members, and also now, after the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture in the broader sense of the lower wine-growing environment. They have vineyards there, they grow grapes there. However, Slovenia is small and these differences and the boundaries of the wine-growing environment are, I would say, very rigid, but they have their homes, their cellars and everything can also be on the other bank of the Sava or outside of this wine-growing environment, and these people cannot now have a new one. I think I'd even agree with that if it were some young vine growers and if there wasn't some tradition or whatever. That is why I myself have proposed an amendment that if legal or natural persons produce grapes within the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska: they process wine, that is to say that they drag it out, that the clergy donate and fill it in the neighbouring wine-growing environment, that they have been doing it for at least 50 years; that is to say, we also stress the tradition that I think is of great importance for the exercise - that they may also produce a drill for the future. That's what I think we'd do to correct some of the injustices. However, it is also true that I do not quite agree with these abuses that have taken place so far, but these abuses, as my colleague Ashish has already said, have been the result, I would say, of non-implementation of laws and regulations by the State supervisory services, in particular the agricultural inspection. I do not believe that such events can occur in the functioning of the country being set up. However, I think that with some harsh rules, people should not be confined to doing something that they have been able to do for centuries. That's why I proposed this amendment, and I don't think this amendment is to the detriment of the exercise. This amendment is in favour of exercise. But he's not blaming a lot of traditional producers of drills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. A replica? Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	I respect the right to differing opinions. But if we accept this amendment, the law is meaningless and the purpose followed by the law is unattainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 22.2.2001, which we received today on our bench. I am putting two amendments to Article 1, the first amendment of which is proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, with reference to: if this amendment is adopted, the amendments, namely the amendment under order number two, of which Mr Ašič Jože and his mother's working body are not supported, and the amendment to Annex two, under order number one and two, are irrelevant on letter number four. Anybody want to talk? If we don't, we're going to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the first amendment to Article 1, of which the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is the proposer. We're voting. 68 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 1 has been adopted, which means that the second amendment is irrelevant and we do not vote on it. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 58 voted in full for Article 1, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on a new article 1a, whose proposer is mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go, Mr. Visac! Proposer!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	I'm sorry. I don't know. I just came here. Look. The amendment is intended primarily for the protection of wine. I'm referring to what I used to be, but I'm a farmer myself, not a redhead, but a redhead. However, in this national assembly, I would like to say that the bisque is very similar to the reddish one, both in the orderly composition and in its characteristics. However, the buffalo is a reddish wine with a slightly higher alcoholic level, with a richer extract and belongs to the quality wine class. The traditional processing and mixing of white and red varieties is also characteristic of the buffalo reddish. If this traditional feature is not defined by law, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine, the traditional production of reddish milling is prohibited. The prohibition is also laid down by the rules of the European Union. We must not allow the reddish beeswax to lose its traditional position of fresh, sour, fruity wine, and instead of the reddish bisle, we would have only a purple red, which could not compete with traditional reddish wine. The solution for the bizel-sremian wine-growing environment is therefore to ensure that the legal definition of this wine also ensures the production, care and filling of this traditional reddish wine. If this exception is allowed and defined at home, it will be easily allowed in the European Union. More than 50-year-old tradition, which is more recognised by the European Community, also applies to wine reddish. After some consultations, I also came to the conclusion that, at the moment, in Article 10 of the SFRJ regulation on quality of wine, from 1981, it was also written that white and red grapes could be used for reddish wine. This Regulation intends to replace the Ministry of Agriculture as soon as possible with the new Slovenian Regulation, the new Regulation is practically already in writing, and the comments that no white and red grapes have been adopted for a Bisellian in the future. Therefore, the possibility of continuing the production of reddish whiting is excluded by this sub-legislative act. That's the purpose of protection. As previously intended for the protection of the plant, the purpose of the protection or even the existence of this wine is called reddish buffalo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban wants the word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Mr. Vizjak, please turn off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	But very well-intentioned. [[...]] At the same time, I can see that fellow Members today have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn from the sciences of wine-growing, and it may not be too much for us to bring the matter up a bit - and I will not do so now. And here's the thing about the amendment itself. It is true that a purveyor of reddishness is something special, but it does not belong to this law, because then there should also be various wines sold in many large quantities and mixed with different varieties. And it could even be dangerous because it's written down, 70%. Look, when you're going to lunch, order a broom black you know a lot better than you do yourself. And methyl black is a traditional mix of some, I think red wines. Then turn the bottle around, and there's a blue franc in the back, which means that at the moment, if you write it down for methyl black, this methyl black should no longer be on the market, or someone should try to control it, whether it actually has buffalo red 70% of these varieties, and so on. This means that these matters are handled differently, in a more loose way, and that we also allow a little flexibility to the vineyards producing the buffalo red, and the brand itself can help them much more because it seems to me that it is very good wine, as I know it, that they can otherwise get their niche on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I thank you for this well-intentioned replica, but I notice that I was not well understood, obviously. The amendment makes it clear that this is not about mixing varieties, it is about mixing white and red grapes. That's a whole other story. And this says 70% of the red grapes. This means - see, like for a drill, because if you had exercise experts here, you could even be defined as a percentage of the composition of the exercise from which the varieties are made. And this is in the Regulation, which was also published early this year, clearly defined, with tolerances. Similarly, it is very similar to that of a whitish reddish and a bezelish red. These are wines that have their characteristics, their properties, and this is not something to be afraid to write now, that we will do otherwise and then we cannot. This is exactly what we know, and in terms of protecting this wine, this amendment is. This amendment is due to this specificity because I do not know the third case or the fourth case in Slovenia where white and red grapes would be mixed. This is not about mixing varieties, mixing varieties is a completely different thing and is a completely different controversy and is a completely different type of discussion. We're talking about mixing red and white grapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, namely a new article 1a proposed by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. We're voting. 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 15. Against 33. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the amendment to the new article 1a of the Magi's proposal. Andre Visiak was not accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1a, the proposalers' group of Members with the first signed Gezo Juban and the parent working body of the amendment supports. Mrs. Marika Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'd like to say the following to this amendment. Three years ago, a decision was taken for this area to name this area of Lendava Mountain, Goričko. And with the kind help of the opposition. It's geographical names, which are not Premur's. The Lendava Mountains are a narrow area, 625 hectares of alkaline vines, which represent the only wealth we still have around Lendava. After this area became a wine - growing environment, people became more involved in marketing. And the first successes are there. It would be irresponsible for these people in a few months, a few years later to change this environment and delete the name of the Lenda mountains, which represents a quality and special wine-growing environment. And that's why it's right to keep that name. Why don't we help develop in this way, especially in this way, especially if there's no other way to do it; so I don't ask for money here, just to keep the name. That's why I said that in this law, instead of a drill and a pitch, the proponents should solve a number of other things. I don't think it's right for us to intervene so quickly in this area. And actually, a few minutes ago, we got the amendments. Nothing else has been prepared here. Thank you. So I'm against the amendment, and I hope we don't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban would like an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Three years ago, we had before us a marriage proposal that talked about the Premur Gores. And the suburban mountains mean that Lendava mountains, Gorički vineyards and all vineyards that are not in Lendava or in Goričkem are included. And that's a third of them left. These are vineyards in the area of Kobilja, the mountain ranges of volunteers, the mountains of Peasants, the hills of Philosopher, the goddesses and other things that I am unable to list at this time. And the solution proposed was good and acceptable at the time, and we changed it to an amendment, just as it is possible in this national assembly. And in the same way and with the same right, with the same business options, I have proposed that the matter be remedied in such a way that the basic proposal is returned to reintroduce the premurks. The demand comes to me every time I meet the vineyards of other areas that are not in the Lendava Mountains, three years in a row. At the same time, the professional public supports this solution; i.e. the Lenda winegrowers continue to rewrote on each bottle "the wine-growing environment - Lendavian mountains". Very fat. This is nothing to take on Lenda Gorica. This solution is also supported by the business community for winemaking and there are many reasons why I have tabled this amendment and will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to talk anymore. [[...]] Mr. Peterle, please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. That's a question I'm interested in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	I'd like to ask a colleague for peace in the hall. Mr. Peterle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	Now there are usually problems with such, I would say, pragmatic designations if they do not have any traditional use, and as a geographer I have relatively little heard of the Premurje bitters. I've heard of the Premur plain and the Goriček plain on the other side. I would rather see, even following the arguments made by Mrs Pozsonchev, to take so much paper space, and I would like to list all these mustards in particular, as if, I would say, we should bring them into the pre-murky mountains. So to me, it would be closer to the horizon, it would seem more fair to name them by the names they have, and that no identity is drowned in some kind of roofing term, which I don't think he knows much of a history paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban spoke for an explanation first and then Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Mr. Peterle is right in his own way. And the main problem is that we have over-split Slovenia. And that we will have a lot of problems in marketing in the next period with this disintegration. And with my understanding we combine one bigger space because I sing Gorička doesn't tell you that they grow vineyards there. And the Prekmur Mountains say that these are all vineyards in Prekmurje. At the same time, the other part of the submarital acts is touched by what you are talking about: narrower environments, where exactly the Lendu mountains, Goričko and other parts are listed, and all the surrounding or narrower environments can be written on the label of the bottle in which the wine is sold without any problems. In the future, this law will have to be amended when it comes to marketing and the market, when Macedonia will not be able to set contingents, but will import as much as it wants. Maybe a little bit as much as they want it to be, but you, Mr. Peterle, may know better than I do what it'll look like when it's true. The current solution seems more appropriate to me, which is why I'm defending it. However, I think I said that this solution was signed by 27 colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Sok, I'd like a replica of Mr. Peterle. Did you want a replica maybe or a debate, Mr. Sok? It's a debate. Mr. Peterle, the replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	In this case it would seem more appropriate to say 'prekmur wine-growing environment' than to say other environments. Wouldn't that be more appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you, for your word. Look. In view of the Constitutional Court’s decision, it was necessary to accede to the amendment of the law and to lay down more precise conditions for wine bean. The Committee agreed to add a tyrant to this, because it is a problem, I would say, the same. Well, then there were some amendments in the debate, with which certain Members are trying to settle some other matters on this occasion. I'm not in the mood for that either. I've already said that on the board. I have to say, this is the first time I've heard of the concept of the Premur Mountain. But I don't want to get involved in suspense. So, Mr Juban claims that this is the case and that it has been discussed three years ago, and I wonder why, three years ago, they did not enter into the law like that. It seems that there is now an opportunity in this swift process and that some are trying to resolve the matter in this way. Forgive me, I may be thinking wrong. But Mrs Possoncheva announced to our committee that she would table an amendment and I don't know why she didn't submit it after she had announced it and that when she announced the submission of her amendment, which would keep this notion of the Lenda mountain, Goričko, in law, I was convinced that I had voted on the committee to complete it or turn it into a premier mountain. Besides, I'm not sure that's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Marika Possonec, then Mr Ferri Horvat, Mr Davorin Terčon and Mr Geza Juban, spoke in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm literally embarrassed to be here in front of a national assembly with such a problem. I'm embarrassed! It should be said that there is no such thing; the economic way we help, instead we are also doing arbitration, whether you support Mr Juban or me. So I'm ashamed of it! This is what I told you that the billers have overstepped their competence because in order to save the track and the drill, they come through a small door of such a solution. Otherwise, I cannot say as if the geographical names are Dolinsko, Ravensko and Goričko, so there are no Lendava and Prekmurje mountains. I didn't want to table that amendment for the sake of respect for the Members either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not an expert on wine or cultivation and cleavage, but I do know something about marketing. I am sure and I know that one of the problems of our wine-growing and, above all, wine-making is the problem of marketing in the world. It is true what my colleague Peterle said that quality is particularly important; it is a prerequisite; but it is also important that the other bottles are filled with these good wines, as well as the labels, as well as what names are used as trademarks. From this point of view, I think that the amendment makes sense by proposing a supplement given by my colleague Peterle to be a lecture on the "prekmurski výrodní environment", so I think that you, my colleague, have proposed. And I would like to propose to the amendment's proposer that it be corrected in this respect. Only as an additional argument would I state the following. Look abroad! There are also differences in the quality and specific characteristics of wines in small areas, perhaps even in large villages, hills and so on. However, as a rule, the areas are quite large, much larger than us, who act as a trade mark with a single name, either as a town wine from Austria, or as a burgundy from France, from the great province of Burgundy, and so on and so on could still be listed. Thus, from this market point of view, especially given that we are geographically small, rich and diverse, it is appropriate that these environments are larger than trademarks, and within this there is a possibility that where there is a very specific, specific and quality wine to be added there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Davorin Targeton, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I have a brief replica of Mr Sok, who has found that we accept these changes because of the exercise or problems that have arisen with regard to the protection of the drill, and he has said that the same problems have arisen with regard to the terrain and that we have included the pitcher. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are no problems in protecting the terrace and that this solution is a conscious decision to protect the terrain at a higher level, because we are fully taking stock of the regulation already laid down by the lower regulations of the government and the ministry as set out in the Rules and is equally taken by law. As far as this is concerned, the Teran was not a problem, but we consciously decided to protect the Teran on a higher level. That is why I will certainly support this, regardless of the fact that some Krašov people warn me that it is not right to mix the field and the drill in the same set.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	Today I am obviously benefiting greatly from the opposition's assistance and we have made quite a thorough change in this way as well. And I would also take advantage of Mr Peterlet's suggestions this time, because I alone cannot change the amendment because it is signed by 27 colleagues. But I announce a change then in the third reading to turn the "prekmurje mountain" into a "prekmurje wine-growing environment". And then the matter is also so consolidated that these good intentions are fixed and we actually have a very clear picture of what the Premur wine-growing environment is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We'll have two more replicas in this morning's work. Mr. Auschwitz first and then Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	I'll be very brief. he deals with Prekmurje and a little Dolenjska and a little Primorska. [[...]] And I am replicating to Mr Tarchoon, of course, by saying something at the expense of the exercise, which you probably all understand and of course I do not agree that this is another story or if you wanted, Mr Davorin, to say that this is so much better, it is not true. However, it should be said that the law, as adopted by Article 1, provides that we have two CTU wines in Slovenia. And that's the track and the drill. And--no. Davorin talked about it. So, Mr Davorin, I think it is right that the law is applied for a track and a drill. But it's true that it wasn't the committee that invented it, but that you made it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. And Mr. Visac. And then I want to report [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	All I'd do is replicate Mr. Juban, and I'd ask him to listen to me, too, so he won't work fruitlessly. Since Article 5 of the law or regulation on the zoning of the wine-growing area of Slovenia says that - does not talk about the premurk wine-growing environment, but says that we have the wine-growing environment of the prekmurje mountain. So, in this sense, not that we're going to fix the surrogate mountains in the premurk wine-growing environment, which is the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Given that we have concluded our debate on the amendment to the new 1st Article of the Group of Members, I propose to the National Assembly that we vote on this only and then we stop. If you allow, we are voting on an amendment for Article 1a, a proposal for a group of Members supported by the mother's working body. 56 Members and Members present. He voted 24 against no one. [[The vote was 24.]] [[No one.]] We'll re-vote. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the first amendment to the new Article 1a has been adopted. If you allow, with regard to the decision of the National Assembly, where we have decided to adjourn the discussion on the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General by 2.30 p.m., I am obliged to inform you that, in an interview with the President of the Supervisory Committee of RTV Slovenia, Mr Branko Grims, it has been found that the reports within the meaning of the fifth indent of Article 24 of the Law on RTV Slovenia cannot be delivered to the National Assembly at that time, as it is not prepared, nor has it been verified on the Supervisory Board. I therefore inform you that the debate on the 32nd item without this report will continue at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. I just want a good one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue with the afternoon session. He is further excused for the continuation of the 3rd session of 22.2.2001, Mr Samo Bevk, from 4 p.m. to 4 p.m. We're detecting presence, so please put your cards in the slot. Thank you very much. There are 63 of us present, which means that the National Assembly can make a valid decision. We're moving on to break 32. We continue our debate on the proposal for a resolution on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which is to say to Members and Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an opportunity to hold an open debate, and then, with a limitation of five minutes, we are moving to the debate of the following Members: Mr Maximilian Lavrin, Mr Leopold Kremjar, Mr Igor Štemberger and Mr Ivan Bozič. I give my word to Mr. Jozet Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss the agreement to elect the director of the public institution RTV, of course, as has happened today, we also touch on the slightly wider position of this institution in the Slovenian space. It is certain that those of the coalition who have thus moved to their noses have changed the agenda of the current meetings of the National Assembly, and this point from the end of the regular meeting fully to the beginning are aware of why they are doing so. This is not the main moment or the Director-General will win or not get it because the result has already been decided. In my opinion, this rush is not on the line for the next director to be significantly better than the current one, so that, within a public institution, there would be significantly less commercial cases than the journalists say, although we absolutely believe them. If this party were interested in being strictly defined everywhere, I would ask why the same actors are completely anemic in the case of Eles, where billions are even more flying. This, of course, does not mean that I will not be misinterpreted by anyone who advocates the conduct of the current RTV leadership. How many cases there are in this society where consistency and the will to resolve open issues could be demonstrated. I think that fear has prevailed, what will happen if this theatre going on inside RTV, and these tensions continue for a while, who will be on stage. Personally, I think that due to the future regulation of one really serious approach to this matter, it would be better if we had a point at the time envisaged. Until then, some things could still be opened. We would see which people there actually had a much greater influence behind the scenes, and more masks would fall. Now this speed is at the expense of hiding a lot behind the masks. Otherwise, we would not object to being able to talk peacefully with the representatives of the press, to have this conversation to the end, and to actually get to know all things. But that is certainly the reason. Here the question now arises how the period after Chad will be accomplished. By the way, is this really going to be a press victory, which is what we all want to make the press more powerful. What is happening today would certainly not have happened if these same gentlemen had not eliminated the agreement that we have advocated in the appointment of major management posts. As has already been said, it will be seen when we vote on the law on RTV whether this agreement is reintroduced. Their honesty will prove to be here. It can be this speed, and it is a necessity in the service of being set to make as little clear as possible, because the atmosphere now is to open up painful darkness and events and things that should not have happened. And of course you're trying to stop it. The question is whether the new leadership to be put in place will not be significantly more resilient in terms of editorial policy. Will not even those independent journalists who have now taken the initiative be the first to fly away and be welcomed? Because the politics that pushes speed here has always been afraid of them and removed them in time. Or they will succeed, say, some of the research or more open news shows, such as the Ultra that threatens him forever, and something like that. Maybe they'll be the first victims. Much of this should be cleared up before this meeting. I also agree that the issue of editorial policy and everything that is going on inside this house must be thoroughly processed before this meeting. Indeed, the fact is, as has already been pointed out, that in some ways television in the Slovenian media is almost the most neutral medium, that there is a significantly worse situation on Radio Slovenia, where everyone notices how different the approach is, say, through a very innocent morning broadcast on Val 202, when one government is in power and when another government is in power. Then, when there is one, in style, otherwise indirectly, through another media house, say, "Good day, poverty!"but human resources now that we are reading today that Mr Bandelj has become president of the world in the Clinical Center, this is not a problem; but if there was another government, it would be a rump and a pump, and it would be monitored throughout all the media all day! [[...]] I can see he's in a hurry. Of course, if this was the only problem, then we're in a great hurry. But I think, as I said before, it would be better if this theatre of absurdity lasted another week because more things were to be clarified. It would be more clear, because now I do not know who, as the president of the press union says, is in the world of RTV, whether it is the owner of a marketing company that shoots commercials for television - in the world is the director of the company that sold the house to its company RTV to be a studio in it. I haven't been able to clear that up yet, and many other things like that. Although I have heard that they are very parasitic in the RTV budget of Mr Šetinc, Mr Kocijancič with his companies, but what does this mean? Their client has now turned. Does this mean that under the new leadership, they will eat even more into the tissue? That all of a sudden, that's what suits us? So there are more questions every minute and we should actually think about them all. I don't know, maybe it would be good to have a candidate for director here as well as a representative of the press. Now that a few things are open, maybe we could go through this, along this path and start getting closer to having a clear picture of what's going on inside this public institution and what's the implications of where, let's say, the biggest customer in this place would like to have. Is it true that there will be a Commissioner here in the future who will do a lot more skillfully than the things that the current director has missed out on? Of course, the situation on RTV cannot be prolonged. There is certainly an objective responsibility for such a situation, and we do not create a illusion. But what I'm most interested in is what your interests are to protect, to convince you that the masks will finally fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	First of all, I have a procedural question. I did not fully understand you before what is now the situation with regard to our decision to obtain or obtain an overview of the findings of the Supervisory Board. I, in view of what you said earlier, Madam Vice-President, can conclude that this committee has not done anything and has found nothing and has been working, I think, for several years. I would like to know whether we can expect anything or not from this committee and why I insist on it. I say again, I'm not a lawyer, not another lawyer, not anyone in this game, but I want to be a lawyer for this house, so there's not gonna be a stain here, like we made up our minds. We as a member group have heard today after visiting the press union, representatives of the press union, if they're right, support this. In three hours, other unionists came in, from the broadcasters who came in themselves, they said if you'd listened to them, give us more. Some MEPs who were at hand also listened to this. Which union should I follow now, on what basis? Some claim so, some claim otherwise. That's why I'm saying the best thing for the National Assembly is that it follows its own institutions, if I say so, because five of the Supervisory Board have been appointed by us. I'd like to see if we have such an institution to tell us what she found out or even tell us that she didn't find anything. But I want to be calm when I press here or there. I insist that we draw these conclusions before making a decision, and I am interested in when we can obtain them. The only thing I understood before was that it couldn't be done so quickly, but now I'm wondering when it would be accessible if they had decided on matters that were within their jurisdiction under the law. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Peterle, I'd like to read again the piece I wrote earlier, and then I just got another letter from the table to introduce you to this. Earlier, it was announced that, in an interview with the President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, Mr Branko Grims, we note that the reports within the meaning of the fifth indent of Article 24 of the Law on RTV Slovenia, on the basis of which a procedural decision has been reached, cannot be delivered to the National Assembly at that time, since it has not been prepared and verified on the Supervisory Committee. At 2 p.m. and 20 minutes, Mr Branko Grims, Chairman of the Radiotelevision Supervisory Committee, notified the President of the National Assembly of Mr Borut Pahor that, by 3 p.m. at the latest, he would notify him of the conclusions of the Supervisory Committee for the period from 23.7.1998 to 16.2.2001, requesting that Members and Members of the National Assembly be made available, if necessary. With this, I inform you, we will continue the debate, and I also hope that at 3 p.m., as promised, we will be presented with the conclusions of the Supervisory Committee on the table, which is not, of course, what you wanted in the procedural proposal, i.e. the report of the Supervisory Board. However, this was answered earlier, so my assessment was that we would continue the discussions. So much for an explanation. If you'll excuse me, in the previous part, when we broke up, I forgot to allow Mr Janez Podobnik's replica of the performance of Mr Puksic, which he has now warned me about. Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I already applied to the replica in the morning after my colleague Pukšič's performance, which is not between us right now. My colleague Pukšič was also very critical in the debate until the world of Radiotelevision. Among other things, he was reading the statute's provisions regarding secret elections. I would not repeat one of my discussions today when I mentioned that such an election was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to explain to my colleague Puksic that the statute of Radiotelevision Slovenia approved or gave consent to the State Assembly at a meeting of the National Assembly a good year ago or more. We, as Parliament, have also been informed of the provision for the Director to be elected by secret ballot. I don't think there's any basis for that. He also spoke, as he himself said, about the poor work of institutions in the Radiotelevision Institute of Slovenia and mentioned the Council of Radiotelevision and the Supervisory Committee. I believe that it is only after two or three hours that we have actually succeeded in finding that, as responsible legislators today, we should have a report from the Supervisory Board on the bench. On the basis of the debate, the public perceptions, the discussion at the home labour body, the National Assembly itself should be smart enough to have this report on its hands. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to prepare it for the National Assembly on the basis of the law cited by its colleague Peterle. Since the findings were linked to the report of the Supervisory Committee, I believe this is a prerequisite for today's decision. I also propose to take a look at the fact that, over the past years, the Supervisory Committee has sent a report to the National Assembly or other materials, these have always been forwarded to the home work bodies, so that all these materials are allocated to Members and Members to be informed before the decision is taken, and for the entire four-year term of office of the candidate who is now running again on the basis of the decision of the RTV Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. It is more than obvious that there is no serious intention to conclude this point briefly, so I'm going to do these thoughts that I've done here a little bit of sketching, shortening and sneezing because I'd like not to repeat the things that have already been said. The old Slovenian proverb says there's little music for a little money. In the case of RTV Slovenia, there seems to be little music for a lot of money. So I'm going to ask my colleagues from Social Democracy not to resent me if I use their slogan, "It's time for change." For changes in the management of the institution and changes in the law on RTV Slovenia. The fact is that most of the world of RTV Slovenia behaves on the chorus of the song "Let's call ourselves good, even though you are not". This convinces me that it is necessary to listen to journalists who point out the need for both changes, both the leadership and the way we come to the world and the way the world works. I must say, Utopian socialist Thomas Moore has a lot of copycats. One of them was colleague Mile Šetinc when he explained to us how good the law was in this particular segment when we adopted it. If I use another saying, "The way to hell is pressed with good intentions." Today, there have been many beautiful words and solutions that have been offered to do so. From this point of view, some would like to make an investigative commission from this National Assembly, from a plenary session. I'm having this experience myself, especially in that it's about someone squawking right here at the barbeque. That's why I'm calling on everyone who's still talking after me, so be brief. The decisions of the world RTV Slovenia do not seem to be so politically conditioned, which was intended to attach itself to or to instigate, so to speak, as is another relationship between some members or between the majority of members and the director. This tells us that this way, as it is now, is not right and that is why we need to change it. It is a dual role, a conflict of interest, etc. And one more thing. The provision that the National Assembly should listen to the legislative body of this country, taking care of how the world works, how RTV Slovenia works, seems unrealistic to me. This is the work of the executive branch of power and, of course, it should also be given to it. Given the content and nature of the mistakes that some of you have been talking about here, I'd say so. I suggest that we leave the relevant institutions to do their work in peace and, of course, to Mr. Rokavac and others, who have incited and coerced us to say so, the opinion that they are manipulating us and that they are working according to someone's orders not to pressure them in this way, which is the police, whether it's the judiciary or the Court of Auditors. And one more thing. Those who spoke about the top professional qualifications of members of the Council of RTV Slovenia would say this. What, then, do you think that journalists who have these criticisms have no professional qualifications? Do you think they can't separate grains from weeds? My opinion is that they are, after all, the critical eye of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Leopold Kremjar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we do not judge Janez Čadež, nor do we place a political commissioner on RTV. We don't do anything - at least I don't want to do one, not the other. We are not having some debate on RTV, the Director-General, about the world in the middle of some kind of mandate. It is not an extraordinary matter, it is not an extraordinary assessment, it is a simple matter - although it is not a simple matter - an agreement to appoint a new Director-General. This national council can say yes, it can pass it, or it can say no. It's our call. This assessment shall, of course, be consistent with its current work in the event of a re-application to this post by the former or current acting director-general. That's why we're judging him through this work. But today, there could be another name here, and probably in this case they wouldn't be so excited about the results of the Court of Auditors, the results of the Supervisory Board, etc. We would just like to determine whether this person is in our opinion fit to run such a company, like the public, and we also want this company to operate or not, whether it is qualified or not. In the case of a man who has already done so, his work can, of course, be good for him or a handicap. That is why we are also assessing this work so far. We, of course, and I think that anyone who has to give consent should, however, ask whether this person can work in this collective, after these ideas of how this matter should be handled, whether he can work or not. It is only here that I see what is, of course, the views of journalists and other trade unions, such and different. We must not judge because there is a group, but I may not yet know how big it is, against it or on it. We just need to find out - at least I am determining on the basis of this - whether today we will give our consent to Mr Janez Čadež, for this collective good, or whether he can lead it, according to his work and experience so far, and whether within this collective he can have the support necessary to carry out this work. Any wise owner will, whether we have consent, opinion or anything else in the law, try to find out whether the one who is supposed to lead will organise the process, and here is the process just the program, whether he can cooperate, or whether he can have a team of people behind him, because one man alone can do nothing. From this position, these consensuss or disagreements between people within the collective must be seen - and so I see them. So it seems to me that we are going a little bit into areas that may also be later - if Janez Čadež and the RTV team have done something wrong and the Court of Auditors will find out, of course, they will not avoid the consequences of this, not at all. It's the same with the supervisory board. Today we just have to judge whether he is, in our opinion, appropriate, as proposed by the RTV Council, or not appropriate. Through everything I've said - and it seems to me, of course, that we should evaluate the matter in such a way - see what we think or can lead this matter. Of course, I agree with our group's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wanted to replicate earlier, and I changed my mind because I thought things would run faster. We got it all mixed up today. In a single country, we have also introduced a new economic order into this country, which has different rules of the game, such as the rules of the self-government system, the labour system. This economic order very clearly draws a distinction between employees and owners. This also applies to the institution, including to such a state institution as RTV Slovenia. Therefore, the control mechanism and the control of employees in the world of the institution is very clearly established. Therefore, the employees also have their members in the world of the institution. And in this sense, the Director's opinion is given by the board of directors, not by us - we, as the owner, must take into account what our body tells us, the supervisory council. The Director-General of the Institute is not the director of the programs, he is the master of the house. The results must also be in line with him. The Council of the Institute assessed its work so far and its expectations for the future. In view of that, he made his decision. We cannot act self-regulatoryly, yet it gives us much good in this self-governance. On RTV Slovenia, as a state institution, no director will succeed until we have removed the management system in this institution, which is no longer self-governance. That's the point of the problem. On POP TV, things are clear, you know, you know exactly what jurisdiction is on the employee side and what competence, according to the rules of the new economic order, is on the owner's side. There, you know, there's no usurpation within the system as such, the rules are clear. That's why we're not the arbitrator here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger is next. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I have two documents before me, the starting point for the strategic business plan until 2005 of the institution of RTV Slovenia. Here is the original document that members of the institute’s council have had, and has been circulating among them for about a month. In the other hand, I have a copy that we received from the Members this morning. Unfortunately, I was surprised to learn that both documents were not identical. The chapter on human resources issues on page 45 - I will now read two more indents from the document that members of the board of the institution have had for a month now, two indents have been deleted, namely: "The use of experts is very poor, as it is still more important with whom you are good than how good you are." And the following: "The crisis of governance is obvious and has left consequences in the area of relations, belonging to the company and working culture." This is page 45, you can look. Now it seems to me that we Members are really of such little value that Mr Chadjez does not even, I would say, provide us with the original copies of the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janez Sponik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I owe it to my colleague briefly, only in the context of the information I have myself. You got the document based on my proposal last night. But it is also my name on the front page, even on the first page it is clear that this has been addressed to the leader of our Group of Members. But all the parliamentary groups have received this document. According to the information I have, since we have spoken with Mr Chad, this document has begun to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee. And the Supervisory Committee has proposed some amendments to this document. These amendments have been proposed by the members of the Supervisory Board. However, the Council of the Institute has not yet adopted this document and has not yet considered it. It was dealt with by the Supervisory Board, but it did not complete it. Therefore, this difference is in these two data which you have given. I just wanted to explain that. That's what I have on my own. Once again, thank you very much to our Parliament's leadership for allowing Members and Members to receive this document into our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Christmas, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your word. We are talking about the decision on consent to the appointment of the Director General of RTV Slovenia. Everything else is just our thinking or our politics. We have all the Members of the KVIAZ opinion, the report. We have found that, in accordance with its competences, the Council of the Office of RTV has properly voted and implemented the proposal for re-election. Second. We have also noted here today that, at the time of this event, the Court of Auditors' report, which was not for the public, took place on a day-to-day basis. The previous report, which was also said today that there are no more in Slovenia, we have almost every ministry with such a report. I ask myself one question, because I am a little older than most colleagues and colleagues. Do you remember, 30 years ago, political coordination by the congregations? Do you remember how we trembled as leaders, or will you get the approval to appoint a leading worker? How did we do that? I myself thought that when we appointed members of the RTV world years ago, we solved our problems. Of our customers, there are five people in the world of RTV or 20%. The second thing I'd like to say is about political and media lynch. Let's put it this way. When we were talking about a member of the accounting court that we replaced, it was the same thing. Who knows now, and what report came later that this man really did something wrong? And today is exactly the same. When it was necessary to vote in favour of obtaining a report from the Supervisory Board, you were 45% against such a report. You don't want to hear it. That's why I trust the world of RTV. What would I have done when I was at work at a company to get my people to propose me as director so that I wouldn't trust their decision? But there's something else I'd like to suggest. All parties who have members of the RTV world, if you vote against their decision, bring their withdrawals to the first session of the Kviaz because you do not trust them. In the second instance, also bring a recall to the members of the Supervisory Board because you don't trust them either. I think we need to learn something. These democracies, too. Here we go, people. They're there, if they're not doing it right, they're guilty. I trust the RTV Council and I think it has made the right decision and I will vote in accordance with their decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u133	Your Honor! All I want to do is explain the position on the two-layered issue, first of all the poor management of the house and the conflict with the collective, then the poor programming policy and the conflict with the viewers. I think both things are still connected, at least as far as decision-making is concerned. Nor is it based on decision-making, since this is my position, so much on the issue of disputed cases before the Court of Auditors. Under one, I admit that I do not know enough of the events in RTV to objectively judge the guilt or inviolability, ability or incompetence of Mr Chadje. The representatives of society and the press union informed us of many strange events and decisions v.d. the director and if only half of their claims prove true, the fate of his candidacy is likely to be sealed. I don't go into the judgment and weight of these suspicions. I am surprised only to see Mr Čadež that, despite such strong opposition from the collective, he has the courage to run for general director. How can a quality house be run if it is not accepted by the main operators? These are the press. However, as a Member who is obliged to represent voters, viewers, taxpayers, this is a more important second question, this is a poor programme policy and a conflict with viewers. Radiotelevision is, in a way, really national already by paying for it all, the whole nation. But in the true sense of the word, Radiotelevision would only become if all Slovenians accepted it as their own, all of them, regardless of global, visual or political belief. Radiotelevision Slovenia will therefore become national only when its information and cultural programme becomes acceptable to the entire nation, to all citizens, including those with different worldview views and to the programme leadership of Radiotelevision. As long as a national in the most watched evening hours, for example, her "nation", under the title, is playing an extremely low profile and, for a part of the nation, such an insulting coastal comedy that this part of the nation will have to turn off the television if it wants to at least partially avoid a painful sense of self-esteem, this television is not national to me for so long. And I will not support her leadership, let it be written in any way. Programme freedom can only be afforded by commercial houses that are not financed by taxpayers and should also be culturally patient and shaped. In addition to objective political criticism, I demand from the nationalist, who I am paying from my pocket, that, even at the most important evening hours, she is at least a little fashioned and not brutally insulting to other thinkers. Mr. Chadian has probably not been able to provide for this until now. Even in his strategic business plan, it is not the will to see national television become truly national, national, ours and not just yours or theirs. A leadership that my constituents can't afford will be hard to get my vote. To be honest, I have some hope that there is an increasing number of those among members of the government coalition who represent journalistic independence within the limits of correctness. However, when they come to the conclusion that the programming policy should not be forward-looking, unilateral or even offensive, conditions will arise for the national assembly to discuss seriously the ability and appropriateness, not only of the Director-General, but also of the current programme managers. Only then will conditions arise for this television to become truly national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I have spoken to the word actually with a kind of replica, but I think I can say more than what Mr Peterle is asking, which raises the question of the accessibility of these reports, and thus, let's say, the weapons of Members and Members for decision. As you know, Kviaz had the opportunity to postpone the decision on this appointment in some way until the time when the Court of Auditors' report was final and until the time when both the Supervisory Board and possibly the RTV Council would be identified before this report, and, of course, our Commission dealing with budgetary control and other public finances could also be identified. She also has written in her work circle to keep track of these things. Today, I will say, paradoxically for the first time, we are facing the situation that the National Assembly is exercising its founding rights - that it is interested in what is happening in this public institution to lead the discussion, unfortunately, at an inappropriate time, because of course we are in a situation where we are only discussing the agreement to appoint a future director. We should, both under the law on RTV and, I suppose, also have written views on the findings of these different commissions. Unfortunately, the supervisory board, led by Mr Grims, has not done so in all the years, and I am afraid that the previous supervisory board has not done so in recent years. The debate on this is not about this again, and we are nevertheless obliged by the letter of the law to decide on this agreement and there can be no excuse that this is not here today. At this same session, we also have the law on RTV and within this would suggest that part of these discussions should be repeated and incorporated into the system of the law of RTV and in one part into the system of the law on media. Of course, you will see that the same solutions at that time will somehow cause a serious reaction to journalists. As they are pleased today that we are participating in this discussion and that, in my opinion, we are wrong to decide who is right, at a time when the discussion will take place, who is the one exercising the rights of the Founder, will have a large number of comments. Like the Secretariat, I do not believe that the National Assembly is qualified, not by way of election, not by its function, not by its staff, to exercise its constitutional rights and that this is actually part of the government's sphere. That's why we've always wanted some criticism, but I'm talking about the system. But to get back to this object. In a paradoxical way, of course, the way out of the current situation is both for those who oppose the re-election of Mr Chadje as well as for those who want things to be cleared up and then for the peaceful conscience to decide on it is only one way to vote against the re-election. The game was just like my friend Janš said it led us to it. If we want this to be clarified, then we have to vote against it. We have a V.D. a director who, I don't know how long, I didn't know, as far as this was concerned, what was the decision of the Council, whether it was six months or less. With this decision "against" will remain v.d., at the same time the invitation to tender can be repeated and at the same time all the reports we need to make a decision can be obtained at the same time. I see the time is up and I think the way out is to vote "against" and, as it sounds cynical, give Mr Chadje a chance to wash his good name, as he explains in interviews. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore. Mr. Janez Squirrel?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u137	Madam Vice President! I propose that we get the proposed conclusions of the Supervisory Committee before the conclusion of the debate and then read them and then we can get back to the debate. That's how I understood it. It's 3:19 p.m. I propose that before the conclusion of the debate, colleagues and colleagues, we receive the report or material of the Supervisory Committee as agreed and that the debate is not closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u138	Dear Sir, Janez Sponik. We've already broken up once for waiting for the report. Once again, in the form of a procedural decision, I propose to the vote that we suspend and wait for the conclusions presented by Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u139	Madam Vice-President, this was your proposal for a decision earlier. You're the one who predicted when we'd get this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u140	These are conclusions, this is not a report. We broke up because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u141	We'll have something in our hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u142	You want us to wait for the conclusions. This proposal to wait for the conclusions, Mr Janez Sponik, is put to the vote. On the proposal of Mr Janez Sponik, we must first vote to wait for the conclusions. For the first time, we interrupted the work of the National Assembly because we were expecting a report. I am putting to the vote the proposal to suspend the meeting to obtain Members and Members of Parliament the conclusions presented by the Supervisory Committee. We are voting on the proposed procedural decision. Of the 76 Members present, 25 to 35 voted in favour of the procedural decision. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal for the suspension of the meeting, for the reason stated by Mr Janez Podobnik, is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Procedurally has Mr. Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We would like a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the Group of Members, and we expect to receive these unfortunate conclusions at this time. They're already in the house. We also understood that we would get these conclusions, that this was your information, that we would get them. Let us split them up. If not, I would not suggest this decision at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u144	I'm adjourning the session in 30 minutes. Continue at 3:52 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u145	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Given that the leadership of the National Assembly has informed me that the decisions sent by the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee have only now arrived in the parliamentary groups and that we are in the decision-making phase, I am adjourning the meeting and will continue at 4:30 p.m. This time is also devoted to the preparation of parliamentary decision-making groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u146	We're continuing with the session that we've interrupted. We're detecting a presence. Please insert the cards politely. [[67 present.]] This means that the National Assembly may decide on a valid basis. I ask the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Janez Podobnik, given that they have requested a recess before deciding whether he wishes to explain. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the last 30 minutes in the parliamentary group, we have flown the documentation that the President of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Committee, Mr Branko Grims, has received from the President of the National Assembly and also forwarded it to Members and Members of Parliament on the basis of the conclusion of today's meeting. We firmly believe that the debate would be shorter if this material were already available to Members and Members on the Elections and Appointments Committee, as well as at the sitting itself. From this review, which is not, of course, detailed, we have found that the last meeting of the Committee was held on 16 February 2001, and that, even under the influence of yesterday and today's meeting, the minutes were written. For the record was evidently written today - this is February 22, 2001. From the material of the Supervisory Board, which is essentially a review of all the decisions taken by the Supervisory Board within its powers, we find in the Group that in no decision does it touch the actions of the Director-General of RTV, or if the Council acted on the decisions of the Supervisory Board, it was only possible for it to decide as it had decided. These conclusions, these are the conclusions you all have before you. We have not found any arguments in the conclusions in the form of a decision which would show that the Director-General has infringed legislation in any way. It is also clear in the conclusions - we have read quickly, unfortunately only within half an hour - that the Supervisory Committee proposes that the Institute's operations be checked by the Court of Auditors. And this - the procedure has begun. There are many other conclusions that touch on others responsible in the public institution of RTV Slovenia, which are responsible for each area under the law and the statute. We have, of course, been paying attention to one more topic, this is financial business. We took a quick look, and it is evident that in 1998, in October, the Supervisory Board found 482 million losses. In 1999, for the first time, it was a positive balance, in 2000, and this is a proposal for a decision by the Supervisory Board to the Council, and you all found that the revenue surplus in 2000 was 682 million 944 thousand dollars. And then there's a phrase that talks about losing from all the past years. We have also seen the support of the House Management Supervisory Board in these conclusions in this short time to carry out and continue to reorganise the house. The reorganisation is financial, is organisational and is also human resources - financial, organisational and human resources, but understandable, of course, also programming. It is understandable that trade unions, as employees' representatives, are very careful when in a document called "the starting point for the RTV Slovenia strategic business plan by 2005," it also speaks of some human resources solutions that will be necessary and can be painfully cut into the structure of employees. And that's the legitimate position of the union to stand up for its rights, if that's how it feels. So that there will be no misunderstanding, the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party was fully consistent. From the first moment we arrived at our house, a signed proposal by Mr Kocijancič that the Council of RTV Slovenia proposed to Mr Janez Čadež as Director-General, our Group supports the views or proposals of the Council of RTV. We trust him completely. The RTV Council has also taken responsibility for such a decision. We do not take this responsibility, but we support the decision of the RTV world. However, the conclusions of the Supervisory Board are such that they justified the decision of the RTV Board for the proposed candidate for Director-General. This means that our parliamentary group will fully support the RTV Council's proposal to agree on a candidate for the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, Mr Janez Čadež. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. We're voting. My friend Peterle, I'm sorry, but at the end of the vote, you expressed your wish, unfortunately we've already voted, and you didn't sign up to explain your vote when it was time. Of the 75 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 51. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. I hereby terminate this agenda item and proceed with [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u149	Yeah, procedurally, really. Today we listened to a lot of information about the operation of the public service RTV. The minutes of the Supervisory Board also state that the meetings of the Supervisory Board do not contain information. Everybody make sure it says so! How did you know about this information? And secondly, I will ask President Quiaz by the end of his term of office: When will you bring your members to the world of RTV and the Supervisory Committee? You voted against their decisions. Why did you name them there?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u150	Mr Christmas, I apologize, but your implementation is an abuse of procedural rules of procedure. We are currently in the process of dealing with the earlier suspension of 28. We have remained on the agenda for the review of the amendments tabled on 22.2.2001 on page 1, which we voted in favour of the new Article 1a, the first amendment. We are obliged to vote on the second amendment for the new Article 1a, whose proposer is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We are voting on this amendment. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the second amendment to the new Article 1a has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate for a new Article 1.b, the proposaler is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why we are moving to a vote on the amendment for a new Article 1.b. We're voting. 73 Members and Members present. He voted 50 against no one.) [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. I would like to remind you that this amendment is linked to the amendment of the new Article 1c of the Law. We are moving on to a debate on a new Article 1c, whose proposal is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment for the new Article 1c was adopted. We are moving on to a new article 1a, two amendments. The proposal for the first amendment is Ašič Jože, the parent working body of the amendment does not support, with a note, if the amendment is adopted, the article will have to be renumbered in the final edition, and the debate on the 2nd amendment, of which Ašič Jože is also the proposer. His mother's working body doesn't support him. And the third amendment for article 1a, whose proposer is mag. Andrej Vizjak. The mother's working body has not been identified. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. First, we are voting on the 1st amendment for the new 1st article, proposed by Ašić Jože. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the first amendment to the new Article 1a has not been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the 2nd amendment for a new 1st article, proposed by Ašić Jože. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the 2nd Amendment for the new Article 1a has not been adopted. We are moving to a vote for the new Article 1a, the proposalr is mag. Andrej Vizjak. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the third amendment to the new Article 1a has not been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendment for Article 2 for amendment to Article 2. The proposaler is Azhish Jože. The parent working body of the amendment does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u151	He didn't turn on, he doesn't sound.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u152	The motioner withdraws the amendment, so we will not vote on it. Thank you very much, Mr. Auschwitz. We are going to vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 58 voted in full for Article 2, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving to debate and vote on the amendment to Article 3. The candidates are a group of Members, with the first signed Gez Juban. The Committee has not identified itself because the withdrawal of the amendment is announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u153	Fall back.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 3 has been withdrawn and we therefore vote on Article 3 in the basic form. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. Annex II. two amendments have been proposed, which are irrelevant, so we will not vote on them. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Mr. Geza, please. Mr. Peterle, right behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I am bound by the promise before this meeting that I will table an amendment to the adopted article 1a, where we will propose that instead of the "prekmurje mountain", it be renamed "prekmurski výrodní environment". But depending on how we invest, whether we break this point and continue with each other or wait a few minutes to make this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u156	Are you ready in writing? Then, if the assembly agreed, we would read and vote on it. Is that right? Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Geza, please, if you would like to present this. I give my word to Mr. Peterlet. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I cannot help but say a few words about the Dolenjska and the exercise and all of Slovenia making important changes to the law. Especially since some Members of Styrian origin were not very respectful about this extremely noble drink, and I remember reading some arguments in some, not literary, but professionally written material, and I have seen that reading already, already mentioning, already see the word "wipe", raises the spirit, let alone if you drink it a little. I will support this law, and I suppose that our entire parliamentary group will also enjoy this unique drink so that there will be more order here and that we will enjoy this unique drink in peace, without fear of unfair competition, in which the Styrians are also increasingly affected. I've met them before. They've come to Podbój or somewhere else to get a drink. That's why I'm asking you to talk about this drink. And thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Spindler has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to replicate to Mr. Peterlet, because he challenged us, the stoyer part, and I have to confirm that. However, I will read certain things from the documentation of the lower wine-growing country: "Hungarians say that the name "wipe" originates from the German word "zwicken", which means pinching, chirping, plucking. According to ethnologist Bojana Omerzel, the ethnic interpretations of this name are much more likely, for example, the word "wiche" is related to the word "wich", which denotes the orphan, that is, water of skimmed milk." [[Laugh.]] "Likely they also have the Czech'shick', which means sour wine, and the Bulgarian'shick, twitter', also synonymous with sour milk and orphans. It is also similar to the meaning of the word relationship "gewλchte Milch" because in the Bavarian dialect it means milk which has just begun to acidify." [[Laugh.]] "So the ethnologists assume that the Yugoslav word for "work" is a designation for the Romantic word "fermeter", verging, means that already on behalf of this purple red wine dropper is expressed its fundamental characteristic, i.e. acidity." The Trinity, who all of you refer to him, says, "Weak wine is said," or Tridina is recorded as a human voice. [[I'll read it.]] "It's called weak wine, pussy wine, pussies, tweezers, tweezers, whistles, and cocks." [[Laugh.]] These are the truths that are written here. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u160	Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u161	So, this thing is going over the border now. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] and today some wanted to introduce some behaviors about the oenological concepts, but here I would like to say from the very beginning, as the famous winegrower, Mr Grauner from Oslav nad Gorica or under Števerjan said, and whoever knows these things knows who and what I'm talking about. [[...]] He said, "Before enology, there's philosophy." At Strmol Soga Castle, very educated people asked what he thought about enology, about the wine profession. He said, "It doesn't matter, it's philosophy." And it's important here, too. Look, you're a professional and a philosopher. Tell me one wine that doesn't have acid! However, there are different drinks regarding the richness of this acid, regarding the consequences of a certain acid. Ask your doctor why you recommend exercise to diabetes patients who are getting more and more, etc., not because of exercise. Tell me a drink that keeps you healthy and chilly with your kidneys fixed and well-willed all night. The flower has a rich acid, so it came where it is, so even the Styrians buy it, although for their salad I would use other liquids, even though the salad is not bad. So I would ask you to talk about the exercise with all due respect and that acid, which is of noble nature, also recognises the status it's in. So, the Dolenese will fight and read anything from Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u162	There's some replicas. Dear colleagues! We still have a really big agenda. I respectfully ask you to really limit yourself in replicas to what they are meant for. Mr. Auschwitz, Mr. Vizjak, then the replica of Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I won't even want to interpret the matter here in a comic or whatever. I just want to say what's true. The bean is not synonymous with sour wine at all, since the beet has no distinctive acids or even the Bisellian of redness I spoke of is much more known for its acidity or higher acidity. The twitter does not reflect a high level of acid, but a moderate, rather lower than a high level. That's not synonymous with the singing of sour wine. Let's just get this over with for once. Whistle is soft, gentle wine, drinking wine, not sour wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. There's also a replica of Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I am happy that we will adopt this law, but I would not like to see any divisions between the producers from Dolenjska and Styria. Therefore, I would like to propose a compromise, and this will be agreed by my colleague Peterle, if it is also necessary here, that the bean is better wine than the wine in Styria, so let's give it a "spare" and let's drink Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u167	Look. When we were sometimes taught that it is the best empire, so I invite everyone who would like to try what a drill is, so that at 6 p.m. with the press, it's worth calling in the SKD Group, we'll try the right one. Nicely invited!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Does anyone else want to discuss before we go to a vote on the amendments that are 10? Mr Jože Ašič wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Here you go, Mr. Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. I think today after a hard day, some of these humorous inserts were quite welcome, because it is only a tiny release of the atmosphere. However, the adoption of this law is, of course, a very serious matter. It is not humorous and, as we have heard several times before, it is serious that, regardless of the quality and specificity of the flower, today's law gives us two wines, which are special in Slovenia. It's a track and a drill. On purpose, I am speaking out of courtesy to my fellow Terchón, who is not here, because he has already gone to Crassus to make sure that nothing happens to him. However, it is true that we cannot talk about who is better, who is better, who has better. This can happen to rislings, it can happen with chips, it can with souviones and the like. These are the two wines we take to Europe because they are special. Although I have tabled some amendments and because I may not personally agree with certain things personally in the solutions, I strongly support the fullest possible protection of the name of the bean, wine of the bean, protection in the direction of preventing abuse on this subject - humor is allowed to be understood - but abuse in trade with this type of lower wine, so of course I will fully support the law. I will, however, take a moment's notice of the two additional decisions that I have proposed, which are not the subject of the law as it was proposed, but of course some of the matters which will appear in the regulation in the future. Colleagues and colleagues, in Parliament, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I think it is nice that we are playful when we hear the name of the trick, that it is nice to have a practice that gives us a kind of imagination, that frees us the spirit, joy, for that is the purpose. The aim is to protect this and, of course, to enjoy future wine, both in Slovenia and beyond Slovenian borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate on the amendment tabled. 10 qualified Members, with the first signed Gezo Juban, have tabled an amendment to Article 1a, namely: In Article 15, paragraph 1 of the third paragraph, the words 'Lendavska gorica, Goričko' are replaced by 'prekmurski výrodní ok environment'. Explanation: The amendment establishes a geographically more appropriate term for the wine-growing environment of Premurje mountains. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vizjak, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your word. I don't want to have much to discuss, but I want to ask the proposers something. According to the rules on zoning we have clearly defined wine-growing areas, wine-growing environments and terminology is clear. Terminology is as follows: wine-growing areas are the Podrav region, the Posav region, the coastal region; and the Podrav region is also divided into the wine-growing environment of the Prekmurje mountain. Now, in the law, we're turning the matter upside down, and we're breaking this terminology. I ask the proposer or the proposer or the first-signed proposer of this amendment whether he thinks there will be a wider area under the Prekmur wine-growing environment, whether it is the same area or whether it is just a terminology, I would say, a matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u172	Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u173	The rule is an act subordinate to the law. That's why he's going to submit to the law. But what Visjak says is that it can be one way or another. I have promised before this assembly, at the initiative of the opposition Member, Mr Peterlet, that I will respect the suggestion that I will table an amendment to speak on the Premature Environment. That's what made this happen. Of course, it is the Member's decision whether or not they take it. However, the basic part that I was talking about is that the entire suburban vineyards are covered either with premurk bitters or with a premurk wine-growing environment - two different concepts that are both used in an article of the law that talks about the environment. Once we have a wine-growing environment, another time we have gourmets, such as luzomeric-ormexia, etc. I don't care how you support it. The Prekmur wine-growing environment may ease a little; it may ease the mood of Members from Prekmurje, who we have seen differently. Since we're at the end, I'd only add one more sentence, two sentences. Nevertheless, we have adopted a law that protects the geographical origin or the traditional name of a drill and a terrace, and with a little humor we have brought this law to an end. At the same time, to my satisfaction, we have voted all amendments to this law or amendments to this law in a convincing manner, i.e. with a large majority in Parliament, which is rare, and that we have formed amendments this time by Members together, I would say, Mr Pahor, positions and opposition, where proper cooperation has been achieved. I thank you all for everything as the first signatory to this law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Peterle, you'll have your word right behind me. I am obliged to read the amendment once again, because it was not right before, namely: "In Article 15, in paragraph 1 of the third paragraph, the words 'Prekmurje gorica' are replaced by 'Prekmurje vinorodní okel',' because this part with the amendment in the second reading has already been adopted. Mr. Lois Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to my fellow Member's culture, Mr Juban, who has kept his word and proposed what I think is really making the matter easier. In principle, I would add that I think it is better that the rule book follows the dictates of the law than the wrong one - if there has been a difference in understanding, I think that was not the best. Well, and, I'd say, we're already acting so defensively that I'd rather say like that guy who was writing on a fire issue that he wants a lot of fires so he can help people as much as possible. In fact, this wine law obviously connects us a little, and I didn't feel normal polarization. So, I want some more wine law, but not to fix the status of the drill and the terrace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because it does not want to, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1.a. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. Explanation of vote, Mr Partljič and then Mr Anderlich. Here you go, Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u177	With everyone who's worked hard on this marriage, I'm just saying that I'm going to abstinence as a recovering alcoholic in voting. I wouldn't want to interfere with your efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u179	At the end of the 17th century, John Vajkard Valvasor wrote in his Slava Vojvodina Kranjska that Dolenjska could be considered a happy land. The famous polyfistor, a member of the academic royal society in England, found a reason for its happiness in many vineyards and famous wines of the valley mountains. According to Valvasor's records, her wines exceeded even the vipavska and laska, i.e. Italian. Of course, we are flirting with Europe and the Slovenian bride will be only a little valuable if she does not bring her bales to Brussels, as it is called, by which she will know, where and who she is coming from. Therefore, the first monograph on any Slovenian wine in English will come in handy. I am sure that this will also contribute to things, certainly so is Andrej Gerenčer, and we can certainly be proud to take the path of strengthening the specialities and certain things that are especially Slovenian and which will remain even when Slovenia loses the possibility or will transfer some things to the common denominator in Brussels. I will make an effort and I will give you this book in Slovenian, not in English, because those who participated in the preparation of the marriage promised this because there was obviously no opportunity today to explain everything, I will hand over this book to you because there is a lot of laughter written in this book today and it speaks of a different light. It is clear that in 1997 we had to get to know the quintoise the most and ban the law because it is incomprehensible. Even in Dolenjska there were many well - known women's dresses. It is prohibited by law and obviously culture is also rising in this area. I think that Spindler will contribute to the fact that the quinta that grows elsewhere in his environment will disappear from the Slovenian soil and also the famous locker room. Of course, I will vote in favour of the law and I think we have done a useful job supporting the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak would like to explain his voice, please. Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you so much for the president's word. At the start of such a proposal as it was prepared for a rapid procedure, I would not support it. However, I would not support him for one simple reason, because he is talking about this or he is doing the opposite, as Mr Anderlič said, namely, to turn thesis on Valvasor's thesis, reverse the the thesis of many winemakers and wine growers who are talking about the lower wine-growing environment on the right bank of Sava. The bill thoroughly touched on this and deleted from the lower wine-growing environment the whole lower part, including the most traditional cities of the bean, such as Šentjernej, Kostanjevica and of course Novo mesto. I think that this was extremely unacceptable, so I am very pleased that the billers listened to the arguments and also finally realized that the tradition of the valley wine-growing environment cannot be changed and deleted on a map. Tradition is something that has evolved over decades, if not centuries, and that eminent winemakers and winegrowers talk about areas that have so far been defined as the valley wine-growing environment and remain so in the future. For this reason, the law, despite the fact that certain amendments that I have tabled myself, have not been accepted, has been supported. I think that with the preservation of the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska, that is to say on the right bank of the Sava, and in accordance with what already provides for a sub-legislative act, the legislator has achieved a great deal and also the purpose of protecting the cricket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u183	Yes, thank you for your word. I might replicate Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u184	I'm sorry. Now there's just an explanation for the vote. There's no replica. There's no controversy at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say something to him about the word "kidney" and "quite," if I can't replicate it, then thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr. Azhish, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u187	Let me begin by saying, as I have already foretold, that I will support the marriage. I will also support him because I am not a producer of wine wagons, but 2,3 000 litres of cricket in our vineyards is also growing at home, and I am very happy that this law will be adopted. Of course, I would like to say that in fact this law means the greatest protection of any wine in Slovenia, for a drill and a tyrant, because for all other wines in Slovenia there is a possibility of filling, i.e. manufacturing, finishing and filling outside areas that are defined for a particular variety or wine. For this reason, of course, I believe that a good trend will continue to be set for the enforcement of the plant, both on the Slovenian market and on foreign markets, although there may be some discomfort for those in the margins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, two proposers tabled additional proposals for conclusions. In the review of the amendments tabled, you first have an additional decision on page 4 of Mr Jožet Ašić's proposal. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I won't be long. This law, which we have discussed today, we all know, even in the introduction, has been introduced because of the temporary suspension of the rule on the production of the drill, the field here is exempted. In view of the fact that there are several points in this Regulation that would be useful to re-check, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision calling on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to re-examine the appropriateness of the determination on heights - that is, 210 metres, as the lowest possible point for vineyards in which it is possible to produce a flower. And the second part, which relates to sterile and cold filling, is that, according to all information in Slovenia, there is no technology to enable it. Even abroad, this sterile-cold system is not filled with wine. It's cold, but the other is sterile. And that's a very special technology. I do not propose any decision such as to re-examine both and amend them if possible once the law is in force, when the regulation is likely to be released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the additional decision proposed by Mr Jože Ašič. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. We are still going to discuss and decide on an additional proposal for a decision of which the proposal is mag. Andrej Vizjak and you just got him on the bench. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I have already tried with the amendment to the wine law to protect or in part also allow production, the further production of the traditional bezelian - reddish. Since the amendment has not been adopted, in particular on the grounds that such a definition does not fall within the law, I propose that the State Assembly propose to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food that a sub-legislative act lays down that a mixture of red and white grapes, recommended and traditional varieties with at least 70% of red varieties, is allowed for beeswax. I wouldn't have read the explanation, because I said it back then. It is mainly a bizelian - reddish, traditional wine, similar, competitive wine of a cricket, but in another wine-growing environment. I think that competition is healthy and here perhaps a colleague from Styria could say that it is sour wine, because it is slightly sourr than a drill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Because the Lord of Auschwitz wills not, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u193	I would like to support my colleague Visiak in this decision. It is, in fact, a recommendation to the Ministry of Agriculture that, in preparing an elaborate-based regulation, which will have to be prepared - if I do not know yet - it should therefore take account of this recommendation. In fact, a red bizelian is similar to a mixture of grapes as a drill, but, of course, based on soil, soil conditions, climate conditions, this is not a drill. I think that such a decision can be taken by the National Assembly without a hitch as a recommendation in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue treatment terminated 4. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for the Aviation Act. If we take a look at the amendments tabled, of 12.2.2001, we remained on page 9, namely, the State Assembly concluded the debate on Article 36, namely the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 36. [[the amendment committee supports]] so that we still have to vote on the amendment to Article 36. I hope you could prepare to have the exams in front of you. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 36. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. He voted 32 against no one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 36 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 37; the amendment committee supports. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to debate and vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 38; the amendment committee supports. Because no one wants to debate, we vote. There are 58 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the two amendments to Article 41. The 1st amendment is proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. For the footnote: if the amendment of the committee is adopted, the amendment of the Government under number 2 is irrelevant. Under number 2 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] That's how we get to the vote. We are voting on the 1st Amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I find that the 1st amendment has been adopted, so we do not vote on 2 because it is irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 42. The applicant for the 1st Amendment shall be the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. For the footnote: if the amendment of the Committee is adopted, the amendment of the Government under number 3 is irrelevant because the content is covered by the amendment of the Committees. 2. The amendment is a parliamentary group of young Slovenia's parties. The amendment committee does not support it. The 3rd amendment is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u195	In Article 42, I would like to draw attention to the amendment of the parties to young people because there is no representative of the party in the Chamber. It is, however, to define what has already been in the law so far, that it is necessary to license technical staff of air navigation services. Indeed, according to the current text, this is not in law and the licensing of technical staff of navigation services will certainly help to increase air safety. This can certainly ensure the quality of the technical skills of the air navigation service. Navigation services are one of the most important components of air safety. It is also right for them to obtain additional certificates. The amendment allows young parties to do so, so I support it and, of course, I propose that the rest of you also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Is it possible for the proposer to be identified by the amendment? Mr. Undersecretary of State, Mr. Slana, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The proposer considers this issue to be satisfactory, as set out in Article 47 of this Law, in the event that the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee is adopted. I would also draw attention to the obligation of the proposed law, in the event that an amendment to Article 160 is adopted, to draw up a specific law on the implementation or provision of air navigation services. It would probably be more appropriate to regulate these issues in this law if it gave rise to an opinion that they were not properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u199	I have a replica of the proponent. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Air Navigation also supports such a solution as I have previously presented. However, it is pointless to wait for another, third law, which is yet to come into procedure to solve something that is crucial to air safety. So this is certainly about some kind of misunderstanding within the Ministry or between the Ministry and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, but it certainly does not make sense for this misunderstanding to be included in the law, thereby reducing aviation safety. This can be regulated by this law, and so has the law so far. It is not something new, but the current law in force has regulated it in this way, as proposed in the amendment. Of course, I see many more arguments for being saved in this law than in one third.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Here you go, procedurally, Mr. Kebrich! Just give me a minute, will you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u201	It is not fair for us to take decisions and vote in a non-conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u202	I think we're done. Mr. Kebrich? Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to take a real look at the neighbors so that perhaps the presence is not just a card. Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Kebrich. I think we really have a responsibility to identify this moment of conclusion, because we are in the decision-making process. Please, colleagues and colleagues, to insert the cards, let's find the conclusion. The 45th Congregation is not concluded. We'll figure it out again. Once again, let's figure out the conundrum! There are 45 of us present, the assembly is not concluded. We'll rediscover the presence. Once again, we're figuring out the conjunctivities. There are 47 of us present who can now make a valid decision. As the debate on the three amendments to Article 42 has been concluded, we are moving on to a decision. First of all, we are voting on the first amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment, which is proposed by the Youth Slovenia Party. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 24 votes to 24. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment became irrelevant by the vote of the first. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 44. The first is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and the second amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We are voting on the first amendment, namely the amendment, the Infrastructure Committee. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote on the second amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 46 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the two amendments to Article 47, namely, the first amendment of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, with a note, if the amendment of the Committee is adopted, the amendment of the Government under Article 2 is irrelevant because the text is covered by the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move to the vote on the first amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 45 votes in favour, none against. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I note that the amendment has been adopted, and the second amendment of the government has become irrelevant. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the amendment to Article 50, which is for a new Article 50. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u203	Interestingly, it says here that an authorised legal or natural person is performing medical examinations. As far as I know, only doctors do. I don't know what kind of person he is who's doing his medical exams.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u204	Mr. Gasparini, there could only be an amendment to this amendment to fix it. Yeah, we're in third reading. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 50a. It's an amendment to the government. Under 2 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and under 1 is the amendment to the government amendment proposed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second basic amendment of the government. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the government's amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 51. This is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 52, Article 1, the amendment of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, with the remark that, if adopted, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 2 is irrelevant because the content is covered by the Committee's amendment. Under 2 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the 1st amendment. There are 48 Members and Members present. For the vote, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We do not vote on the 2nd Amendment because it has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the amendment for a new article 52a, whose proposer is the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 53. The amendment supports the committee. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 54, the first amendment being the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, with the remark, if adopted, the amendment of the Government under Article 2 is irrelevant, as the text of the article is replaced. Under 2 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the 1st amendment. Thanks for the heads-up. If we've all got cards, I can see the presence. There are 47 of us present. I'm guessing we can move on. We remained in the decision on the first amendment to Article 54. [[Just give me a second to get this thing off the screen.]] We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present - 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I find that the first amendment has been adopted, and we do not vote on the second amendment, because it is irrelevant. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to Article 55. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present - 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 56. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. This is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present - 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 57. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. There are 50 Members and Members present. This is proof that technology can by no means replace man. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 65, one being the amendment of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and two amendments of the Government, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote, to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the two amendments to Article 67. Under 1 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported by the Committee and under 2 is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 50 Members and Members present. 42 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 70. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to debate and vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 71. The Committee supports the amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 72, the first amendment proposed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, with a note, if adopted, the amendment of the Government under Article 2 is irrelevant because it is already contained in the text of the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the first amendment has been adopted and the second amendment has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 73, the first amendment proposed by the Committee and the second amendment proposed by the Government, which is supported by the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 74, which is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 75. This is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the two amendments to Article 77. The first is proposed by the Committee, the second is proposed by the Government, which is supported by the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 51 Members and Members present. 46 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The 1st amendment was adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the 2nd Amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 46 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 78. The proposer is the government, the committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 79. It's an amendment to the government. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 80. The first proposer shall be the committee and the second proposer shall be the government. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? If no one, we're going to make a decision. We're voting on the 1st amendment. There are 50 Members and Members present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the 1st Amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the 2nd Amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to the debate and decision on the four amendments to Article 84, by withdrawing the 4 amendments by letter from the United Nations Group of Socialists, so that we do not discuss it or vote. So, there are three amendments. The first amendment is the amendment of the committee, the second amendment is the amendment of the government, which the committee does not support, and the third amendment is the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Government representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to say that if the amendments are adopted under order number one and three, the need for any amendment of the government will also be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u206	So you want us to vote on amendment one, on amendment three, and then there's an amendment to the government. You're withdrawing him? If the amendment is adopted under one and under three, you will withdraw the amendment under two.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u207	I propose that you vote as the committee has decided not to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u208	Are you suggesting we reject your amendment under two?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u209	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss it, we are going to the vote. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 49 Members and Members present - 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment that the government proposes not to support. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present - 9 votes against 34. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment. This is an amendment to the committee that the government supports. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present - 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. The amendment to Article 85 has been withdrawn. The amendment to Article 86 - there are two amendments. The first is the amendment of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, which it withdrew. I'm putting a second amendment to the debate, this is an amendment to the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am putting the second amendment to Article 86 to the vote on Letter No 30. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 44 against no one.) [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And maybe that's for closure. We have four amendments to Article 87. The first one's been removed. The second is the amendment of the committee, the third is the amendment of the government which the committee supports, and the fourth is the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. It's an amendment to the board. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's third amendment, which the Committee supports. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the fourth amendment, this is the amendment of the committee. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. For the vote 43, against no one [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It is 6:00 p.m., so I thank you for your work so far, and I would like to announce that tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will begin the meeting with the 4th item just interrupted and then continue the meeting in order to proceed. Thank you so much and good night.
