ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Anton Delak, Victory Jelinčič, Peter Levič, Sam Bevk, Davorin Terčon for the morning's work, Roman Jakič and Jožef Špindler. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. First of all, please see if you've inserted any cards. Please, if you can insert the cards to determine presence. Let's press the quorum, please. I note that there are 48 Members and Members present; the assembly is concluded and may decide. We have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting, Minister Čokovo and Secretary of State Alojz Pluška, whom I welcome very much. At today's 7th meeting of the National Assembly, we will first hold a hearing yesterday. 47. Agenda items, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. Then we will move to the consideration of the 50th point, this is Banka Slovenije's 2000 annual report and Banka Slovenije's 2000 annual accounts, and to the consideration of the 51st item, this is the annual report on the operations of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute for 2000. The assembly will be sitting today until the three points are completed, of course, by 1300 hours at the latest. At that time, you have also received a call from the leaders of the parliamentary groups, so we assume that today we will conclude with these points, tomorrow the remaining two points of the 7th meeting, the morning, then the one-hour recess and immediately after the extraordinary meeting. Such a scenario is now taking place in the National Assembly. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, reduced procedure [[The material has a date of 17.7.2001 and this material, I hope you all have]] . First of all, I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Can we vote on this decision? Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 54 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. Like I said, it's a matter of 17.7. A review of the amendments. We're starting with Article 7. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 50 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This also fully adopts the article as it is written. We're moving on to Article 15. Amendment to Article 15. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 15. Let's vote, please! Of the 60 present, 19 to 40 voted in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 15 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 57 present, 44 were in favour, 10 were against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that Article 15 has been adopted. We move on to Article 16; we have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Excuse me, Mr. Pache. I'm sorry, Mr. Pache. I would kindly ask Members and Members to listen to the debate of Mr Pečet and other colleagues. I find that extremely inappropriate. I'm sorry to put it that way. Outside we have a sign that phone calls, cell phones in this room are inappropriate and so on. Please! Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. To be honest, I'm already sorry I didn't make the call to Article 15. I will now take advantage of this when I report to Article 16. I think it would make sense that every Member who realizes that it comes from their own, let's say to this constituency, who realizes that an integral part of this constituency is also a local community, should know that there is a great difference between opinion and agreement. And if this national council in the form of laws imposes something on local communities, let it also give them some rights from this duty. The adoption of this amendment would actually increase the role of local communities in educational processes. I think it makes sense that if we are talking about the need for regionalisation and, therefore, the division to micro levels, that is, in the local community, we should also give them some of those rights that I think are exclusively theirs. I suggest that at least this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Nobody else? I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 16. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 25 to 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 50 votes against, 9 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that Article 16 has been adopted. We're at Article 17, we have one amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Naughty, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	In view of the fact that this is a matter of education, a normal language should also be taken care of. Because we can't accept such a "terrorist": "Before resolution, the principal has to get to know the educational or teaching or teaching council for reasons of resolution." I'd like someone here to take care of the Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you. Any other discussions? Will the Minister find a solution? Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please, on the amendment, of course. Of the 65 present, 61 Members and Members voted in favour, 2 against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 17 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 58 voted in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 17 has been adopted. Article 22 and one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The government proposes to delete the last indent of co-financing for the transport of children to school. I do not agree with this, however, because I do not think it is right that this is how state finances are managed, first of all we produce or stimulate the formation of municipalities with all these stimulating measures, and then we delete them somewhere in the middle, I don't know, the mandate. But the other thing that is necessary to keep it in, and that is why I propose this amendment, is that the country retains great beasts in some way. This matter is not only in the national interest, but also in the wider European context and in a different way to solve the problem of transport, so it is not the interest to organise it and to ensure it. There's no way to solve it with sidewalks, there's no way to solve it with fences. And in this part of Slovenia, where these great beasts live, I think it is appropriate that these municipalities dealing with these problems also be provided with adequate compensation for the costs incurred. And that is why I propose to the assembly that this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yes, Mr. Pukšič, please, and Mr. Pece then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The current law states that the State budget also provides the resources for the activities and tasks necessary to carry out education and education activities. The following paragraphs are listed and the last indent speaks of means of transport for primary school students and means of protection for drivers. Therefore, if this is deleted, it means that the National Assembly intervenes in the finances of municipal budgets, without the consent of the municipalities. And this matter is certainly in conflict with other legislation that speaks of local self-government and we simply do not have this right. And I think that, of course, we should not vote on this as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	The educational process, according to the Slovenian National Party, is certainly one of those that will be most reflected in the future, which will help us all together and help our foreigners more to, say, this better future. And, above all, in non-urban centres, we think that this amendment would be an integral part of this educational process, and I would like to say that, in our opinion, going to school and leaving school is part of the educational process, especially in non-urban centres. I think that this is a strong enough argument, so that the future generation will be provided with security and, therefore, the success of this National Assembly itself in supporting the amendment. We'll be in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Who wants a word, please? No one else. We can go to the vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 33, 29 voted against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 22 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. We're at Article 24, where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 24. Let's vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Mr President, my voting apparatus is not working, so please if you can stop the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Just a minute. We're going to vote again. Mr. Petty Officer, do you have the correct card? [[Yeah.]] We're voting again. Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 63 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 62 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 24 has been adopted. Article 26 is now due. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 26. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 58 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have a full vote on Article 26. Of the 59 present, 57 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 26 has been adopted. We're at the 31st article where we have one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 31. Let's vote, please. Of the 64 present, 59 voted against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 31st article as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 56 voted in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 31 has been adopted. We have four amendments to Article 43. First of all, in the review on pages 4 and 5, we have, as you can see, four amendments. [[...]] We also have an amendment from the SNS Group, signed by Mr Pece, on a special paper sheet. This one belongs to, somehow we could have classified it as the first amendment. [[...]] An amendment under order number 1 could be included in the amendment by Mr Péčet. This is because they then exclude themselves with another amendment, the amendment under order number 2. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 43. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already said in the introduction, in the speech of the representative of the parliamentary group, that, in the framework of this law, which is in our country, for example, necessary and welcome, we find in particular controversial transitional and final provisions. So, those provisions that somehow correct the existing 1996 law in this area. In terms of tolerating the educational efficiency of those responsible. So in the law itself, in the 144th article, I am talking about the basic law, from the 96th year, the speech is that the required education, which is required under the 1996 law, should be obtained no later than 1.9.2002. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is necessary to stand in principle for all professions, not to separate education from other areas where education is also required on the one hand, on the other hand, work experience, but we do not deviate from the criteria. It seems to us that a period of time has been adopted in 1996 for us to know in advance how long certain conditions must be met to meet the criteria set out in the law, but to extend it indefinitely seems pointless. This is indeed a cover-up for those who have failed to meet their obligations to meet the conditions within a certain period of time. On the other hand, the adoption of the amendment would also achieve what this national assembly is trying to achieve, namely synergies to achieve greater effects. There are many candidates for principals or mentioned functions that meet the conditions, mainly from the younger, middle generation. But unfortunately, because of the thinking of our country from the past periods, where in fact only the criteria of long-term or long-term past were the only ones to advance, we are convinced that today we would offer this amendment to those younger generations, those who actually meet the criteria or conditions for them to be able to work in the leading places, let's say, schools. And by doing so, they transfer to the educational process all the knowledge they have acquired through this educational process. Thus, the educational process would also gain quality. There would come people who have this education, and these people in our country are. If the amendment is not supported, of course it is partially rectified or partially substantively accompanying our idea also the amendment of New Slovenia, which shortens this deadline. But I am sure that if we leave in this area, the National Assembly will show its inadequacy and we will also face the same issues in the other segments of the development of our society, we will give in everywhere - on the other hand, perhaps I apologize for the word'relenting'. No, we tolerate some kind of special layer of people. But if they were tolerated for lack of personnel, that would be excusable. But today, because we have the frame, we just don't let it go. But here I think it's necessary to ask who doesn't let them in and why they won't let them in. Let's stop this and support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems to me that there have been a lot of misinformation and untruths spoken by my fellow Member in this speech as well. His first untruth is that this extension is indefinitely, which is not true. These amendments reduce these hands by just one year. The year 2002 is replaced by 2003 and 2005 by 2003. So it's not forever, but it's just a reduction of these deadlines for one or three years. It must be said that no profession in this country has had as much higher levels of education as it is educational. When I was young, almost all the teachers I knew had secondary education. In high school, they had to have college, and now they have to have college. So this level of education has increased. If we want to have some tolerance as a national assembly for these people who were in the educational process and then, despite having been in a full-time working relationship, were to educate them that they could have required the criteria, then it was also necessary to see that the system functioned normally in order to enable these people to do so despite their work in order to obtain the missing education. The other thing is that we don't tolerate a special layer of people. But respectable colleagues and colleagues, when we talked about fire safety inspectors in fire safety, and five other laws could count on you, we also raised the required level of education for the person who did the work. In all these laws, too, by extending the number of years, we have tried to capture that, for the first time, the system was functioning normally and for the second time, that we have also shown a humane note to the people who were in these professions, so that the spouses, in addition to their family obligations, could afford their professional responsibilities during the evening hours and were satisfied with these conditions that they could continue their profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Replica, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	It is likely that, according to his tradition, Mr Moge continued to hear the main content of my opinion or opinion by the Slovenian National Party. I said it was right to give some adjustment period as to the educational conditions for administrators. And that's what we did, we did it in 1996, when we gave this transitional period in which certain conditions have to be met. All I am saying is that this National Assembly must decide whether to continue this practice and maintain one lobby, including in the field of educational organisations, directors and in this lobby it will not release new ideas, a new system of education, which in any way brings some good things or most of the good things themselves. Because if education didn't bring anything new, then education would be a completely meaningless term in our country. Then anyone with any education could do anything. However, I think that by rejecting this amendment we underestimate those universities that provide education, and I say nothing but that some hands must be clearly placed. Don't move them. And today, in the existing or proposed law, we move our hands, or the government tries to move forward. No one can deny it. And on the basis of the experience of operating in this, say, room, this temple of wisdom, I know that this period, when it expires, will be extended again, or I am sure of it. Yeah, and that's forever turning. Of course, since the representative does not hope to write indefinitely, because every life is only time-limited, I am in favour of writing or not adopting the proposed law in such a form, provided that you accept the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. It's just about letting new people into new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. I didn't see if it was a replica or a debate. It's a replica. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate Mr. Mohet. So in this case, it's not about any job, it's not about teaching staff, it's all on the average, it's about administrators. The law provided for a clear transitional period and provided for all candidates, both those who were potential candidates for these places and those who met, with equivalent conditions. So it's been a while. We are now extending it, and by extending it until this time limit, I will tell you that when we run into these acts again, we will have to postpone them again in accordance with a good Slovenian legislative practice. We always argue about it in all these laws. I think that this is inappropriate and that we have already had so many years of high school where they could be educated, especially if they are so ambitious that they will meet such jobs. However, I agree with my colleague that it is necessary to give young people the opportunity to come to work. Schools need air, I'll tell you. Really. And that's also a contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	The current law states in article 144: Candidate for Director. It was stated that, irrespective of the provisions of Article 53, paragraph 1, and 53, paragraph 2, of this Law, 1.9.2000 may also be appointed director who does not fulfil certain conditions under this Act and so on. In the second paragraph, it states that whoever is appointed director by the preceding paragraph must obtain the required education and title by law by 1.9.2002 at the latest. With a proposal to amend the law, the government wants to extend this until 2005. I believe there have been two injustices. For the first time, a teacher or teacher who was a good teacher or a good teacher became a principal or principal because of a variety of circumstances. Being a good teacher or a teacher, of course, does not mean being a good organizer, a good director or a principal. It is not a coincidence that the legislator has requested a specific education and width for this job. Today, of course, taking primary school is a somewhat different and more difficult task than was possible at the time of patterning. In a lot of schools, so they're still, of course, not generalized, far away from it. Many of these are even more capable or better than will I say, a new cadre that will meet the conditions, but knows, the law is the law, and it would be necessary to respect it and not to change the legislation in order to write the matter back on hand. Just like a very narrow group corresponds 100% at this time. And the other injustice that's been done is that there's a lot of young people who have university education. Many of these alongside their work were educated and did so at the principal’s school. With his resources, in his spare time and so on. And the opportunity, the possibility - of course, why did they do it? Because they had a marriage before them, among other things. And they knew that with 1.9.2002 they would be able to perform works by those who do not meet the conditions. Those who have prepared themselves for this, of course, today for the prize, because they have been educated because they have expanded their horizons, we do not give them the opportunity that was legally theirs, but we simply make it impossible for them and push them into a corner. It's not right for the young generation, but there's been so much talk about young people standing on the world, and education is not everything for the information society. When, of course, someone reaches the prescribed conditions by law, then [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Three days before we let it change and we take a nap. [[...]] Why is this up to date? Because, of course, these calls are in progress and so on. In short, it does not make sense to support the proposed government changes, but either by deleting it and remaining as it was in the original law, or by the compromise proposed by the NSI Members. At the same time, I would like to say that my colleague Germič's proposal seems to me to be in place and that it also needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Yes, Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I would just like to explain the content of the third amendment relating to the appointment of assistant directors. So my amendment follows the intention that the director who appoints his assistant may, of course, choose between teachers who meet all the conditions. And, of course, it changes the dictatorship in paragraph 6, where it is said that only until September 1st 2005, he can be appointed as an assistant also to those who do not meet the requirement for higher education. So my amendment goes this way so that the headmaster of teachers who meet all the conditions for teaching at a school can also choose an assistant principal from among them. And, of course, in this direction, I ask Members, colleagues and fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If there is no more debate [[...]] [[It's not.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the amendments. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please! We're in a vote. There's no procedural way. Of the 64 present, 22 voted against by 40 Members and Members. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. Now, Mr. Barovich, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	I wanted to warn you - you said, Mr President, that we are voting on the amendment to Article 43 under number 1. I understand that the amendment is under number 1 of the amendment of New Slovenia, although we have said that we will, I say that I understand that we will first vote on our party's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	I made it perfectly clear in the beginning what is the order of the amendments. And I said, between order number one and number two is Mr. Pechet's amendment, which I explained at the outset. So let's start with an amendment under order number one, so I've also used this term, and now, as I said before, we're going to the amendment that's on the special paper sheet, this is the amendment of Mr Pečet. So now, so we've figured out, the first amendment wasn't adopted. We are now moving on to the amendment, to the vote on Mr Pečet's amendment. On a special sheet of paper, please. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant. All clear? Good. Let's vote, please, on Mr. Pechet's amendment. Of the 61 present 23 voted in favour, 37 members and Members opposed. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number two. For the sake of clarity, I'm going to follow the numbers as they appear in the material. This is the amendment of New Slovenia. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 64 present, 23, 40 voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment under order number 3, this is a group of Members, Mr Germić the first to sign. Let's vote, please. If this is accepted, then the fourth amendment is not up to date. Of the 62 present, 58 Members and Members voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment has been adopted and thus the amendment under point 4 is not up to date; it is irrelevant. Thus, we can now vote on Article 43 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 47 voted against 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that paragraph 43 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 45. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 45. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 47.3 votes. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] Since this article is deleted, the amendment is adopted and there is no need to re-vote Article 45. We move on to Article 46, where there are two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendments to Article 46. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 46. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 50 were voted against, one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 46 under order number 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 41 votes in favour, 9 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 46 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 46 has been adopted. This has been the subject of a debate on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word, maybe? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to say a word, we are moving on to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 56 voted against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we vote on the title of the law? Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. There is a second treatment behind us and we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 7, 17, 22, 24, 26, 31, 43, 45 and 46 were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Procedural proposal. Mr. Chairman! I ask for 20 minutes of recess so that we can prepare amendments to the third reading law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Here I see that we have a few more agenda items ahead of us. I ask whether it would be acceptable to continue with the next item on the agenda and then return to this point because we have already done so many times. I mean, for purely rational reasons. Does the proposer agree with that? So we can stop this point right now, and with your consent, I don't see any objection, so let's move on to the 50th. That's what they say. I'm breaking 47th, 48th, as you know. We're moving to 50. The Bank of Slovenia's annual report for the year 2000 with the annual accounts of the Slovenian Bank for the year 2000 and the financial plan of the Slovenian Bank for the year 2001. Ladies and gentlemen! Proceed with the agenda if you have not noticed. Therefore, Banka Slovenije submitted the material for consideration. I welcome the vice governor, Mr. Rant. I'm asking if he wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The material was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. A representative of the committee, Mr Pucko, will submit a report. Colleagues and colleagues! Can I ask you to make a deal? I don't know. [[...]] Read for the beginning of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the President must maintain order in the Chamber. How he does it, I don't know. Please, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the report and, following a discussion, adopted a decision to propose to the national assembly for adoption of two decrees. Decision on the confirmation of Banka Slovenije’s annual accounts for 2000 and on the allocation of revenue surplus over expenditure and the Decision on the approval of the Banka Slovenije’s financial plan for 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] I propose that we discuss both materials together for purely rational reasons. I don't see any objection to this proposal. I therefore now ask the representatives of the groups of Members. So, who wants a word? First of all, Dr. Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vice Governor, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In his address to the annual report of the Central Bank, the former Governor refers the report to Members and Members, with an outline of macroeconomic economic conditions, as he sees them in Slovenia in 2000, or at the time of the end of his second term. The aim of its introduction is to draw attention to the causes and consequences of the public financial deficit on the one hand, a payment=balance sheet deficit that grows faster than the gross domestic product. To this overall assessment of our macroeconomic situation, it adds a message that in 2000 the Bank of Slovenia, with the resources it had at its disposal, made a restrictive monetary policy to minimise foreign and domestic movements in domestic price movements and that the cost of such action for the whole economy would be as low as possible. It found irregularities in 25 banks by means of tight supervision in the implementation of monetary policy measures. However, most of these irregularities have been detected in meeting the necessary level of mandatory reserves. I would like to draw the attention of colleagues and colleagues to this fact, which, by the way, represents some instability or insufficient strength of our banking system. The annual report of the Bank of Slovenia, inter alia, reports on the budget deficit for 2000, according to previous data, and of course reports its level, at 1.4% of gross domestic product, at the same time as the share of the transfer of financial liabilities from the end of 2000 to 2001. Nevertheless, in the annual report, a number of data that are not further explained are insufficiently clear, and this is precisely in the field of information that Members and the general public should be interested in. In particular, there is a lack of comprehensive data on the maturity of long-term loans to foreign countries and other liabilities [[Public debt]] which will burden the state budget or public finances in the coming years and are essential for a comprehensive representation of the macroeconomic situation of the country. Such information should be available here to underpin the introductory thoughts or alert the Governor. Thus, for example, it is not clear why the report, where all the other conditions are shown at the end of 2000, shows a sovereign debt only in condition 30.9. Such data shall prevent all other comparisons relating to the indebtedness of the State. However, the deterioration in the lending capacity of the Slovenian country in foreign markets shows information on the reduction of the repayment deadlines and the increase in interest rates relative to 1999. However, we believe that the content of the Governor's opening statement requires that, when the annual report of Banka Slovenije is adopted, the National Assembly of the Government proposes to produce realistic macroeconomic scenarios at least by 2006, divided into two periods. The first for the period covered by the 2002 budget is 2002 and 2003 as well as for the 2004-2006 period, which will take into account the planned situation and the already known and then falling public debt and debt-to-foreign liabilities. The Slovenian Coalition, which wants Slovenia to join the European Union, has to make a request today or at the latest when the budget is adopted for 2002 or with amendments to the Public Finance Act. Planning the balance of payments situation of a narrower country for 2003 and 2006 and looking at the state of debt and debt guaranteed by the State when preparing for entry into the European Union is necessary and it would be necessary to legislate, otherwise we will find out by the end of 2002 that we may not meet the already known criteria for joining the European Union. If the opposition does not require the legalisation of the full disclosure of the government deficit and the country's indebtedness, it would be responsible for the failure of our association. In the second area, I would also like to point out that the annual report is extremely modest in describing those areas of operation of the Bank of Slovenia, which are fully part of its responsibilities and responsibilities and are crucial at that time, and this is the supervision of banks. The supervision of banks and savings banks is described on a page and a half. The procedures for cooperation between services within the Bank of Slovenia, between analysts and bank inspectors are described, the number of inspections carried out by the inspectors in banks is very general, but the types of checks are only mentioned, and in particular they are not mentioned by banks which were subject to supervision in 2000. For the security of the banking system, it is not irrelevant whether Banka Slovenije’s inspectors monitored the operation and compliance with the regulations of the largest seven banks with a market share of 73.2 per cent or supervised the other 17 banks in particular. The National Assembly should be informed in particular about the operation of state banks, namely the New Ljubljana Bank, NKBM, as it has a special responsibility to these banks. We believe that the data on which banks have been reviewed and what the findings for the National Assembly have been cannot and cannot be a secret. It cannot be a secret for the National Assembly whether the standards of respect for the proper and legitimate functioning of banks are being improved or worsened or have been excellent all the time. The same is true of the report on the content of Banka Slovenije’s participation in the supervisory function in cooperation with other supervisory institutions, such as the Securities Market Agency. In particular, the Bank of Slovenia reports on its cooperation with foreign supervisors of subsidiaries, our domestic banks abroad. Surprisingly, in 2000 Banka Slovenije started working with foreign supervisors only. This is what the report states, and I quote this: In 2000, under the cooperation agreement, for the first time, the joint supervision of the daughter bank, the largest Slovenian bank in the United States, in cooperation with the State of New York Bank and the Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was carried out. An agreement on cooperation with the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance was also signed at the beginning of 2001 and negotiations are under way, perhaps already concluded, with the German Agency, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska National Bank of Macedonia. In addition, there is an informal exchange of information with Banco d'Italia. We are surprised that Banka Slovenije started working with foreign supervisory institutions only in the tenth year of its supervision. In doing so, of course, we are not referring to working with institutions to control banks from the former Yugoslavia, because, after years of experience with cooperation with this work of the former country, we cannot offer ourselves much benefit in this area. We are therefore surprised that Banka Slovenije did not care enough about what they considered to be the business of subsidiaries abroad, such as Adria Bank's business in Vienna or LBH in Frankfurt. So far, the National Assembly has not been informed by Banka Slovenije how these branches of both state banks operate successfully or unsuccessfully abroad, what their mission is, how it develops and how it reflects on the operations of domestic banks, mother banks, what their results are, or maybe they increase or reduce the business outcome of the New Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank. Thus, before the privatisation of state banks, the National Assembly is not formally and sufficiently informed as to whether the operation of these subsidiaries will affect the value of domestic state banks or will increase or decrease it. It is therefore necessary that, after at least ten years of age, the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, who is responsible for the supervision of banking, responds to at least some questions, either here or in any subsequent written and detailed manner. For the first time, how and how Banka Slovenije checked the operation of LBS Bank New York until 2000, when it established cooperation with supervisory institutions after its reporting. Another time. In the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, did the NLB’s domestic auditors take into account the operations of LBS and other subsidiary co-owner banks abroad when submitting their audit opinion on NLB? Third time. Does the Bank of Slovenia expect the Austrian supervisory authority to carry out a review of Adria Bank in Vienna shortly or before the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and may the Bank of Slovenia have already requested a review? Fourth time. Does the Bank of Slovenia have difficulties in establishing cooperation with the supervisory authorities in the Federal Republic of Germany? When does she expect to be able to apply for control of LBH in Frankfurt? Finally, the key question: Do the representatives of Banka Slovenije believe that state banks can own themselves without knowing the true and fair value of the investments of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the Credit Bank Maribor in subsidiaries abroad. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Before asking for answers, I also ask Members and Members if they want a word. Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! We have also read this report in the Social Democratic Party and, somehow, the branches of it are very modestly addressing some of the areas that we think are very important to us today, and in particular at the time of adapting the financial sector to the guidelines and, of course, to the directives of the European Union, as well as to some traditions and to some accounting standards that apply abroad. In particular, I would like to stop in the area and in the chapter which my predecessor has already mentioned, which is under the supervision of banks and savings banks. It is worth noting that I myself, as an inspector in recent years, have written numerous monitoring reports, and I know that such a report consists of, in particular, the following issues. This is from the statistically processed data, how much and where we have examined something, followed in particular by two important content chapters, which are not in here. These, however, are findings in the exercise of control and, of course, also certain guidelines and measures. This is not the case in particular in the Bank of Slovenia, in particular, which statistically processed irregularities found in control have prevailed and what measures have been taken and not least whether those marginal parts of banks and savings banks have been subject to supervision or have been subject to supervision by the main two banks in Slovenia. In short, it would be very necessary for us to discuss the report further, and we also appeal to the Bank of Slovenia to include these elements in our reports in future when drawing up the annual reports, so that the discussions on the reports will somehow be easier and we will also have some guidance on making it easier. I would also like to highlight the alarming findings of the Bank Monitoring Report, which mainly relate to the establishment of cooperation with foreign supervisory authorities regarding the supervision of daughters or parts of our banks abroad. It seems absolutely incredible to me how and on the basis of which data we can discuss the individual banks in a credible way if we do not have an overview of the audit and some basic data on the operations of our banks abroad. Thus, it seems to me that the ten-year period when we established control is, for example, with the American auditors, a substantial period of too long and we note that some cooperation with the Western auditors has not yet been established, and here too, of course, we would fully support the questions of the representative of New Slovenia and expect the response of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. Is there any other group that would like to present its views? Please, Dr. Bayuk. Excuse me! I'm sorry, this is a presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups, first of all it's up to you. If none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to speak, I give the floor to the Members and Members. I have no written applications, so every debate is limited to five minutes. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. I just have a little question. At the time of reading this report - on page 70, there is also the report of the authorised auditor. Otherwise, it is not signed here, which I have already noticed several times, and I would like to hear the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, whether it agrees with this, although this audit was carried out by a foreign house - here is the talk of PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS, if I understand correctly, from Zuerich - and it is signed by some Mr MORSCHER. I would like to know if the responsibility for this audit is taken by Mr MORSCHER, as we have repeatedly observed in our space, that the auditor is using the stamp of a house, but in fact it is signed and the house is not. I would ask if this is the case and what Banka Slovenije believes about this habit, which does not really help us to have greater transparency and transparency in our capital market as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Colleagues and colleagues and gentlemen, representatives of the Bank of Slovenia! I am interested in two things: for the first time, how many inspectors Banka Slovenije has, and for the second time, I am looking at this report by an authorised auditor and I do not see anything in it that touches on other obligations that Banka Slovenije has and are listed on page 87 of the report. I would like to know what instructions the auditors, supposedly foreign, have received about other obligations of the Bank of Slovenia. And if they did not receive any instructions on this, I would like to know who then controls it, whether the Bank of Slovenia carries out its duties, the seven duties written on page 87. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you. Anyone else please? Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I just have a question. Did the government then, after considering the Bank of Slovenia report, forward any opinions? In fact, it would seem very strange to me that the government would have no opinion on such an important document. So I'm wondering if it happened later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. There's a government representative here and he'll be able to answer that. Any other Members and Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then I would ask for answers to the question raised. Perhaps first, Mr. Vice Governor, Mr. Rant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interest in the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, it should be taken into account that the annual report on the past and that the situation is changing rapidly, of course, so that the economic environment is significantly different this year than it was last year. Above all, we do not have a balance-of-payment deficit, but we even have a slight balance-of-payment surplus. This, of course, is due to the decline in consumption, not only in us, but also in the world, which is linked to the decline in economic growth and, on the other hand, to the cost of pressure on inflation, which comes mainly from the movement of controlled prices and the movement of wages, especially in the public sector, which is well above the annual growth of wages in other sectors. So much for the attention to comments relating to the economic situation. Since a number of issues have been raised primarily with regard to supervision, I would like to draw attention to a matter which is otherwise known and also laid down in the legislation in accordance with European Union law. In view of the fact that the banking system and supervision of the banking system are governed by the so-called'single licence and home country control' rule, which means that only one central bank issues business permits to banks and that only the bank that issues such licences controls the banks. Thus the authority of the central bank in Slovenia, the authority of the Bank of Slovenia does not go beyond its borders. This is therefore linked to the cooperation of the remaining supervisory institutions, as defined in the new banking law, which was adopted a long time ago, and constitutes compliance with the legislation. On this basis, we have also been invited by foreign supervisors, who are otherwise responsible for the operations of banks in their territories, to review us. Which means we can't decide whether we're going to get involved or not if a foreign overseer won't let us. Of course, it is normal to deepen cooperation between domestic and foreign supervisors, which is in fact a feature that has occurred mainly in this decade and is also corporate in European Union legislation, which we are adapting to and from here, of course, also gradually engaging in these new activities by the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia, of course, must be interested in the risks affecting the domestic territory, which means that this is not related to the risks arising on foreign soils which are linked to participants in foreign territory. However, its regulatory role must also be specifically distinguished from what is felt in the requirements raised in the questions. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia can talk about the reviews of individual banks under the risk management system, which means that they cannot disclose the individual data of these banks if these banks or their owners disagree with them. In this respect, I understand, of course, that the warnings relating to the knowledge of what is happening in state banks have been particularly a warning to the owner who is a country, and of course this one has the opportunity to disclose this information because as the owner of such power of attorney. Therefore, of course, I understand that the answer to these questions can only be given by the government, but cannot be given in particular by the Bank of Slovenia, because it has to keep the business secret of the individual bank. We did not work to control any discrimination, if that could be understood in the undertone, between individual banks. We are certainly interested in the risks arising from larger systems, much more than the risks arising from smaller systems, although on the other hand, the 1996 experience also speaks of the possibility that the risks that occur in smaller systems can also endanger the whole system. I am talking about the Triglav Bank case, which is closed, but it has given us a lot of experience and has also caused us certain measures that we wanted and still prevent similar problems as they did at the time. Thus, there is no discrimination in this respect, we are interested in risks, we are interested in the likelihood that these risks will be realized and, of course, on the basis of the Bank of Slovenia law, it also has a number of measures that may interfere with the business activity of banks which, of course, poses risks. We need to know that no business is without risks and that banking is in fact based on conscious risk-taking, which must remain within the limits that are manageable, so as not to jeopardise the funds they collect. With regard to the reports and the modesty of the monitoring report in the annual report, I must say that the annual report is intended to review the operation of the entire Bank of Slovenia, but that the Bank of Slovenia issues a special report which is the same or even thicker, which relates exclusively to supervision. There is a type of data that may be presented here only in aggregate or very vague, and this report is, of course, available to the National Assembly because it is one of the regular activities carried out by Banka Slovenije. As regards the production of macroeconomic scenarios. You probably know that we are entering a new phase of approaching the European Union, in which we will be obliged, as members do with convergence programmes, to develop a pre-accession economic programme that actually represents a medium-term perspective of developments in the economic environment. It is focused on the hands that were also targeted here, and it was recently the first in Stockholm to be discussed by the first group of countries to produce these pre-accession economic programmes. Slovenia has already been placed in a second group, selected by alphabet and we are judging by the alphabet in the second part, and it is obliged to prepare this programme by autumn. As far as I know, the government is in the process of these preparations, which includes the Bank of Slovenia. Among other things, at the forthcoming World of Banka Slovenije, we will be discussing issues related to the part of the document in which Banka Slovenije has to tell. You know for sure that scenarios under the national development programme are also being prepared, and also in this context, especially with regard to the possibility of exploiting the European Union's resources, specific documents are being prepared to be considered within the framework of a narrow negotiating group and a wider framework within the relevant government ministries. In this regard, surely in the near future, you will be faced with documents that will answer these questions. As regards the answers to specific questions. This is, of course, the things I have been talking about, which Banka Slovenije must view within its competences from a systemic point of view. Banka Slovenije cannot disclose individual data on its own without permission. However, all the risks related to the operation of domestic banks in relation to their investments abroad, as part of the checks carried out by Banka Slovenije, are addressed and given adequate attention and, of course, also responds adequately to the management authorities of these banks and to the owner. But you know, probably a government representative will be able to tell you more about this - that there is also a so-called 'due diligence', which means the process of determining the true value of banks during the pre-privatisation period. We do not see any special problems with overseers abroad, and we can work with them. Of course, such cooperation, if we want to formalise it, also requires time and certain procedures where we are one and the other bound to the rules applicable in each country. To the question of how many more specific inspectors Banka Slovenije has, I would not like to answer you here, so as not to mislead you with an inaccurate number. But it certainly is - and we can deliver it to you later, I don't have the exact number of people in my head right now. However, I can assure you that the Bank's permanent world is engaged in improving control and gives all its support to the development of the supervisory department that performs this function under the functions of Banka Slovenije. That's it. I think I answered more or less all the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Perhaps Mr. Tolar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Peterle! You asked if the government subsequently submitted its opinion on the documents submitted by Banka Slovenije for 2000 and for 2001. Your question, I believe, is based on the information and report of the home working body of the National Assembly, which addressed these two issues on 10 May this year, and of course gave the view that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not yet been forwarded to the Committee prior to the examination of the documents of the Bank of Slovenia. On 25 April, expert services at the Ministry of Finance prepared the text of the opinion for the hearing at the government meeting. The government meeting dealing with these materials was held on 24 May and at that time the government adopted a decision, adopted an opinion on the annual accounts of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposal for a decree on the confirmation of the annual accounts and the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure, the Bank of Slovenia’s 2001 financial plan and the opinion on the proposal for a decree to approve the Bank of Slovenia’s 2001 financial plan. On the same day, the Secretary-General also sent a letter to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia informing him in his letter that he had forwarded the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion is divided into two parts. The first part reads: "The content of the annual report of Banka Slovenije for 2000, with annual accounts, and on the proposal of the decision on the confirmation of the annual accounts of Banka Slovenije and the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no comments." With regard to the 2001 financial plan and the proposal for a decree, the government adopted the following opinion: "The content of the financial plan and the proposed allocation of the projected surplus income of the Bank of Slovenia for 2001 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no comments." I hope that answers your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, please? Yes, Dr. Bernick, and then Dr. Bayuk. This is no longer a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Now it's not a debate, but it's actually kind of a replica, it's easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Yeah, that's exactly what I'd ask because I didn't get some answers. Thank you gentlemen from the Bank of Slovenia, but some things, at least two of which I have asked, I have not received an answer. I would like to know a little bit more, though it may seem. When I spoke about the auditors' report, I mentioned that this was limited to financial transactions only. However, there is a whole species, seven things or duties that Banka Slovenije has, and I asked who controls this if external auditors do not control it. And I didn't get an answer to that and I'd ask if you could explain it to me. Then I'd ask another question, and that's next. Maybe I overdid it, and if I did it, then please excuse me. I would like to know whether Banka Slovenije also has inspectors who deal with branches outside. That's what they say, internally. I understand clearly that the bank cannot do this officially because branches are in the jurisdiction of other countries, but it is perfectly normal that businesses, I will not talk about banks, constantly control the business of their branches and I wonder if you are doing this, and at what rate, every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to thank you for all the answers we've been given. Of course, we are aware that it is impossible - just as the world is regulated - that the Bank of Slovenia, in any other way than through cooperation, can exercise any control in this particular area of risk, institutions that otherwise fall under another iurisication; either in the USA, Germany or anywhere. Of course, we're aware of that. It was only surprising that such cooperation was only now taking place. That's all. And a warning. But the fact is, Mr Vice Governor, that your report just points us out, tells us that the result of your supervision, of low-level surveillance, is that you have noticed that our banks do not respect mandatory reserves. This is a very worrying thing, I think, precisely because you yourself mentioned, and I would like to know - and I would also like to link the question of Dr. Bernik - whether it is a systemic problem that the Bank of Slovenia does not have enough of its own people to do it in time and with as much intensity as the situation itself requires, or is it a different character. I believe that the annual work report is just the right time for the national assembly to face these open issues, which you are asking yourself, even sufficiently. Well, thank you very much for your answers so far, but I would like to ask you in any way to get a detailed written answer to those specific questions at the end of my presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Can I have an answer, if possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Bernick and Mr Bajuk, indeed, in the abundance of the issues that have arisen, I have overlooked some, but that was not intentional. At first, I would like to say something else about the organisation of a system of cooperation with foreign supervisors. You need to know that we have been treated as a third country in the European Union so far, even though we are a candidate, and, of course, in relation to third countries, the system of cooperation is somewhat different or slightly more dissuasive than when it comes to those who enter or are already members of the European Union. Some of the supervisors in individual countries in relation to third countries are somewhat hesitant, I would say, to establish such cooperation. However, we are now in a period of time when these things have been exceeded, and this is related to the issue of branch supervision, where otherwise the rule of so-called "home country control" should apply. As far as questions are concerned, who controls other functions. It is very clear that auditors control only the correctness of the accounts and the risks, I would say, which are contained in the activities shown by these statements. While the role of the central bank in managing macroeconomic stability is supervised by Parliament, it is also an opportunity for Parliament to speak about the implementation of these functions. There are, of course, other types of cooperation in the course of the year between Parliament and the Bank of Slovenia. However, all this cooperation and supervision is governed by the Bank of Slovenia Act, which will be on Parliament's agenda in the short term as a new law, because it has to comply with European legislation, because the existing legislation is not in line with it. We don't have special branch inspectors. Inspections are carried out by a service organised for this purpose in Banka Slovenije, this is the control department, and it deals with banks, including branches [[Because right now there's only one, this is a branch in Trieste.]] . As regards the mandatory reserves and the finding of the infringements, you should know that the infringements also stem from the fact that other laws contain provisions which interfere with the competence of the central bank in the use of the compulsory reserve instrument. I'm talking about the housing law, which is also the subject of a constitutional dispute. The Constitutional Court did not want to stop it, but precisely the mandatory reserve is the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court because the Bank of Slovenia considers that other laws cannot interfere with its competence in the use of instruments. And here is actually a compulsory reserve subject of dispute, of course, because it is not completely clear what is legal - Banka Slovenije thinks that its law applies and the Constitutional Court has not said that the other law does not apply - of course banks are being set up in some way by a choice that Banka Slovenije cannot influence. It will, of course, be able to warn banks that it is their duty to respect its criteria and its views in meeting the mandatory reserve, but this moment is left to banks. This is, of course, how we account for - and at what level - the mandatory reserve for deposits related to housing savings. There Banka Slovenije has an orthodox approach, however, the housing law has been cut out, simply intervened in the powers it has in relation to this in Banka Slovenije. From here, of course, also the emergence of a large number of infringements, which must now wait for a break before the Constitutional Court. I hope that relatively soon the Constitutional Court will give its opinion on this matter and then, of course, this will be very clear. However, it is also very clear that the mandatory reserve is about three times higher in Slovenia than that established in the central banking systems or within the European Central Bank and that this instrument will also be given due attention at the time of accession to this European Union and to preparations for the entry into the euro and for the acquisition of the euro, because, of course, it is also going in some way to influence the competitiveness of banks. I think I just answered everything. But if I'm not, warn me. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk, please. Well, then, mag. He's a visor, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I understand the fact that you mentioned this very open question about the use of mandatory housing reserves, that you just took the opportunity to remind us of this very open issue. However, I hope that I am not wrong in interpreting what you have just said, that this is not the only reason why you mentioned in your report that in our space a bank, although it is not yet clear which and in what extent, it did not respect mandatory reserves. I understand that this is just one case, and in no way the only source of this information you have made us aware of in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I would refer only to my own question, or my own proposal, or whatever, to the initiative that, in a report of some kind, which also speaks in a chapter on bank and savings controls, at least the information on the irregularities identified, the irregularities of which and, of course, of the measures that have been taken. You have answered me that this is somehow contained in a more extensive report, which speaks of the supervision of banks and savings banks, so I would ask you if you could send this more comprehensive report to our parliamentary group or, more broadly, the entire National Assembly. However, we would like to know whether there is also a report on control abroad in the context of this monitoring report. Here, in particular, I refer to the last paragraph of the annual report, which states that in 2000 the joint supervision of the largest Slovenian bank in the United States was carried out under the agreement. I am also interested in the findings of this monitoring and all the circumstances, the measures taken and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. There is another question that somehow you should see, if I may remind you of the rules of procedure, we need to be a little more precise on these matters and comprehensive. [[...]] Mr. Peterle wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Your Honor! I don't have a question. I just have a comment. In fact, it was obvious that this government report had gone through very quickly because the government did not feel it necessary for a report that was so extensive, which is not only part of what the government comment refers to, to see no need for it to stop in any material matter and what it says; finally, we know what role the government is playing here. On the Committee on Finance, the matter went through in just a few minutes; it is said that it went extremely formal-, as in the government, as well as here. And the matter, in my opinion, is not only this dimension, which is formally decided here, and it is said: the statement is fine, here are the long words about how everything is in line with international standards, in the end it is a plus and we are pleased to see the matter move forward. So I must express my opposition to this casual consideration of such an important report, which also has substantive data. Let us remember how some of the debates took place here, as long as this was even possible, until the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia was able to speak here at all - at the time of last year's budget, this opportunity was taken away from him. When he performed three times earlier, he mentioned very substantive topics related to the government's work on monetary health in Slovenia. I must clearly say not to such casual and formalistic treatment of the report, which has explicit substantive items.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members would like a word? Please, Mr. Vice Governor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Only a brief explanation concerning the reserve requirement. The banks have no interest in breaching the mandatory reserve because they are immediately penalised for late interest rates. That's how the main reasons lie in what I've told you. As for this surveillance report, of course, there is no problem if you do not already receive it. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Can we discuss both materials and then move on to a discussion and a decision on the two decisions? Yes, you can. Good. After no more debaters, I conclude this general debate. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the decrees. First of all, I am putting forward a proposal for a decree on the confirmation of the annual accounts of the Bank of Slovenia for 2000 and the allocation of revenue surplus over expenditure. Who wants a word about the text of the decree? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants a word, we move on to decision-making. We therefore vote on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 59 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour of the decree. No one was against it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. To discuss and then to decide, I propose a decision on the approval of the Bank of Slovenia's financial plan for 2001. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants a word, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on this decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 41 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the second decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government for their participation. At this time I was not informed that in relation to this it is said, these amendments are on the way. [[...]] But since they haven't been distributed by meal, we will. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Can the motioner please tell me now is this paper? What does that mean? Madam Secretary is here, and there are no teams for the next item. Can we see this? For reasons of rationality, I would suggest the following. There are ten Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed France Pukšič. Article 43 proposes an amendment which reads as follows: A new seventh paragraph shall be added which reads as follows: "The conditions laid down in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article shall apply only if no one who fulfils the conditions required under this Act applies to the Director's invitation to tender. Explanation. With this supplement, we will allow new employment of young educated personnel who meet the required conditions. "So I would now read the article, as it is--amendment, as proposed. Is that in copying? Good. Would you like to have this amendment on the table? I don't see a special desire for this. Then we return to point 47, which is the third reading. In fact, all we have to do is discuss the amendment tabled by Mr Puksic and the other nine Members. Does Mr Pukšič wish to add a word to this amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, it was the only option that opened the door to those young people who had prepared to perform or to perform parts of the principals or principals who had the appropriate education and thus had all the prescribed conditions required by law. And secondly, it prevents those who do not conform to the law with a certain education from new jobs. Which means that if someone with the right education and conditions applies to the job, he or she has priority over those who do not have it. And thirdly, it remains open to them to do so - to say so - their directorate, and probably this proposal from the government was also directed to a smaller group of directors and principals, so written on the skin to remove their directorate and to leave from here for a well-deserved retirement. In doing so, the possibility that the proposal was intended to serve will remain open, as proposed by the proposer. On the other hand, a person who does not have conditions should be disabled or disabled in this case, of course, if someone applies under conditions. I think this is broad enough and acceptable for the proposer, for the government and for the government coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party to the Amendment for the Third Review of the Act, I would like to say that, despite the amendment that was tabled in the second reading, which is possible for a large number of people, to draw the line too harshly between the 1996 application of the existing law and the aspirations of individual lobbyists within the framework of the National Assembly or those who do not meet the individual requirements, we think that we have found the intermediate path that still allows employment in this supreme job in the context of the educational process, and thus let those who do not meet the conditions and put priority in the school process include those elements of our society that are required by law. Of course, we have given in to a certain work, but mainly due to specific territorial differences in Slovenia, because many from practice and assumptions have shown that there is actually no suitable candidate in the individual areas. That is why I really place my heart on all Members and Members of this National Assembly to see in this amendment a compromise that would at the same time achieve that they will be employed in individual jobs - and at the same time we must not forget that we are talking about the highest jobs in the educational process - especially those who meet the conditions, on the one hand, and where the staff is lacking, the doors would also be open to those for whom the government or the competent ministry is seeking to hire them further. I propose that the third reading amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 43. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 43, the only amendment that has been tabled in the third reading. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 24 were in favour and 35 were in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. Therefore, we can move on to a full decision on the law. So we vote yes, sorry, please. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the proposal of the law, although we regret in part the fact that the law brings some innovations in the education process itself, but generally speaking, this law merely gives a positive opinion to those lobbyists who are simply trying to further define their jobs, despite not meeting the conditions for these jobs alone. In the Slovenian National Party, we have tried everything: in the introductory explanation, that is, in the opening speech of the representative of the parliamentary group, we have said that this chapter of the final and transitional provisions appears to be at issue, we have tabled an amendment to the second reading, now together with other classified candidates, we have tabled a compromise amendment. However, we are convinced that if we want to introduce a better education system and thus better conditions for our society's perspective, we should also stick to the law; whether someone likes it or not. From 1996 until that date, however, the 1996 law was large enough. Plus, by adopting these amendments, which are the cause - with the non-acceptance of these amendments, which are the reason why the Slovenian National Party will not support the law, they will give an opportunity to those who actually meet the conditions for running such large organisations, which, of course, are reflected in all future generations. I think that when the National Assembly is or I think that the National Assembly will make another mistake in the context of its operation when it adopts this law. [[...]] And once again I listened to the aspirations of only a certain segment of our society. Those segments originating from the previous company, which have been placed in certain leadership positions - and in the framework of education and education, the director is such a position - only politically. On the other hand, we see that this National Assembly has also destroyed the role of local communities and has thus moved education away from those who actually establish it and from those who actually invest and ensure that education is further developed. Once again, I appeal to everything: I think it is better that we reject this law at this point, that we meet it again and, above all, at two points, that is the role of local communities as holders of local self-government within the Republic of Slovenia and that we clearly and loudly define the conditions that must be met for management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. So we move to a vote on the law in So this explanation of vote? [[...]] Please, Mr. Pukšič and then Mr. Rupar. Any other explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	At the time of the anticipated consideration of the law, I also said something positive, along with the proposed amendments. Given that most of these amendments were not adopted and were simply not listened to, and given that the secretariat as well, warned that they were not only some additions to the editorial nature, but that it was a substantive amendment to the legislation and, of course, it was also a questionable reduced procedure for the secretariat and given that we had made three major systemic mistakes in my opinion. In the first place, we have burdened the municipalities and municipal budgets without their consent; on the other hand, of course, we have not provided resources for this, although the law on local self-government states that if a State commits certain obligations to local self-government, it must also provide resources, but, of course, it goes smoothly through this. Secondly, we have made it possible - I will say again or some more - if you want to, in saying - "politically served personnel" to put on the posts of directors by 2005, despite the fact that young prospective staff who meet the conditions will apply to such jobs and, of course, all of this is not important and is not necessary. This surprises me, in particular, that the Ministry of Education - that this is happening - supports such a change in legislation. And thirdly, the third systematic error we make with this law is centralisation. Again in this sense, because it was not supported, the amendments to Articles 15 and 16, when it comes to the fact that the saints of institutions should have the consent of the founder. On the other hand, you give money, you pay, someone else decides. It's just not normal, it's not right. Last but not least, this is a broader problem - as far as I know; but I know that this was already a problem when, in the previous term, the coalition co-ordinated the issue of public sector employees and already, at that time, there was a trend in that law - so it has a decisive impact on the choice of the founder, and it is; only in the world is so, in Europe it is so, we are still towards the end of the Balkans. Of course, it can't be like that with us, it won't be 10 or 15 years from now when these things are cleaned. Thus, such a change in this law does not bring about what we promised at the beginning and, of course, at the time of the amendments given. I think there were a lot of valid explanations in most of the amendments. We supported those amendments proposed by members of the coalition. In short, we've done this substantively, not politically. It turned out that the coalition was once again engaged politically and not substantively. Unfortunately, you are not interested in content, but something else entirely, so such a law, such a change of law, we will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Rupar, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to a number of violations of other laws if this law were adopted, so I will not continue to say that I will not support it in any case, because it violates the law on public institutions, which states in Article 41 that the professional director is appointed and dismissed by the Council of the Institute in accordance with the previous opinion of the Council of Experts, unless otherwise provided by law or act establishing it. School founders are largely a congregation, but despite repeated warnings, there is not even a mandatory opinion, but the local community’s agreement to appoint a director. I would also like to say that, in the event of the adoption of this law, there is also a violation of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which states in Article 20: The means of carrying out activities in the field of basic education, research activities, culture, sport and so on are provided by municipalities. No music school is mentioned anywhere in this law, which is, of course, contrary to this law. And I would very much like to point out, seriously, the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the highest act in this country, which speaks in Article 57, that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. Furthermore, Article 146 speaks of two parts of the country. One is: the State or the local community; that is to say, it appoints one another, so we cannot mix or push public funds into the same basket and the resources of the state budget are separated from the resources of the local community budget. And the point is, I'd like to fix my buddy Pukšič, too. The Law on Local Self-Government does not state that it is necessary to have the consent of the local community if the State makes any obligations. The second paragraph of Article 140 of the Constitution states: Following the prior consent of the municipality or the wider local or administrative local community, the State may, by law, transfer to the municipality or the wider self-government of the local community the performance of individual tasks under national jurisdiction, provided that funds are also provided for that purpose. Now the tasks have been transferred to the local community, but nowhere, not under any point of this law under article, I have not seen that they would also provide funding for primary school or music school education. Once again, I would like to point out that these are serious violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that on this basis, as soon as the law is adopted, I will also request the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of this law. I'm not gonna define myself for him because I don't want to violate the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. With this, I think we have completed our explanations of vote and are moving on to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Of the 68 present, 40 voted against by 25 Members. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Government for their participation. We're moving to 51. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANNUAL REPORT ON THE OPERATION OF THE INSPECTION FOR THE LEIGN AND DISARMAMENTAL PROTECTION OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2000. He presented the material for consideration by the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. I welcome the Director-General, Mr. Friend, and my co-worker and ask if you would like a word in the introduction. Please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to comment on the business report of the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for the previous year, because the parent committee that addressed this issue considered that this year, when the budget was adopted, the opening statement also remained about this branch of our important macroeconomic segment. Perhaps it is right to get acquainted with this business and some problems because these problems will have a significant impact on public spending and on the material situation of older people in the years to come. Let me say that the operation of the institution took place in an exceptional situation in 2000. This situation has been conditioned mainly because the first year of pension reform has been established, but it changes the pension system well in Slovenia as it introduces so-called compulsory insurance and additional and voluntary supplementary insurance, which will in the future slightly change the structure of this area of social security. If I mention only some of the changes introduced by the reform, let me say that we have adopted different conditions of age and pension periods for retirement; that the period from which the pension base is formed is extended; that we have different percentages for the pension dose; that certain rights are introduced, modified or abolished, such as, for example, a state pension, a widow's pension and so on. An extremely complex system of transitional provisions is defined, which is very difficult for people to understand; many exceptions to general rules are maintained; disability insurance is important; the insurance financing system is being upgraded; a new system of valorisation is being introduced, which has already been recast; it sets out new developments and limitations in the enjoyment and acquisition of rights and many other innovations. These innovations, of course, also had a significant impact on the operation of the institution, required a greater complexity and quantity of work, changed the contents of the whole implementation and required time, content and also human sensitive, different procedures, more complicated legal aid, advice and discussions with insurers and pensioners. In 2000, as every year, again, as was the sign of an acute financial problem, to which I warned practically every year at the introduction of the budget, and these warnings have virtually always come true. Last year, things were even more difficult because during the half-year, things showed significantly worse than they had developed, and since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia then requested a special report on the reasons and reasons for the deficit in the pension register, which were explained and also broken down by the government, some measures followed by the end of the year. Despite all the problems that have taken place last year, I can say that the institution has done well in spite of everything. This is the conclusion of our congregation and of the business report, although it may sound a little strange to say that we have a financial deficit at the end of the year, but we have been doing well, the reason is that the institution, as such, can no longer influence justice, expenditure and other matters, as well as on the revenue side. Everything is set by law today. Rights are defined and 98 per cent of all expenditure is rights. Income is also fully determined by law. Let me say that the law establishes both the contribution rate and other rights, so that, practically in this area, there are some great possibilities for the financial result to turn, except, of course, those internal reserves and the rest, which we are doing in the implementation of the insurance, to rationalise procedures and certain other matters relating to material costs. Let me say that last year's deficit will gradually offset the institution over the next four years. This year's financial plan foresees a positive financial operation for the current year, but let me just say that last year's business year the office ended with 14.3 billion tolar deficits. Some more than 13 billion deficits from the previous year must be added to this. According to the new report, this is no longer a deficit, but a burden of the general fund, but these funds need to be covered. This year, the government of the Republic of Slovenia decided that an additional 6.4 billion will be created from the capital fund, which means that the institution will present an accounting surplus of 6.4 billion at the end of the year, but this surplus will be immediately earmarked to cover the deficit from previous years, so that at the end of 2000 the state will continue to owe the institution 17 billion dollars that it will have to repay for the loan. This year, things are particularly complicated, and 2000 may not be as complicated as you have more than 125 pages of our business report. This business report, in a transparent way, shows the history of this insurance, shows the current problems in 2000, gives a full overview of all developments. I don't think there's anything that wouldn't be shown analytically and even comparatively. That's why I wouldn't repeat what's written. Perhaps I would like to say some of the problems that occur in 2000 and are very important. Inflows for the exercise of rights have increased tremendously, contrary to expectations, the number of applications submitted for state pensions has increased tremendously, which is 8,500, and with last year's around 10 000. Of this, about 70 percent are resolved and over 82 percent are resolved positively. A huge number, 126 percent raised above last year, is the number of applications submitted for recognition of the period of parenthood for one year given by the new law, and there is much work to be done here. This year, the Institute also produced a security supplement verification for over 43,000 pensioners. He exceeded all plans of work, and the realization of the previous year also by 25%. In 2000 we also exceeded both the plan and the realisation of the work. As far as financial matters are concerned, let me say this, because you have not been informed in time or have been familiar with the budget, the formal establishment will end with 6.4 billion plus. This plus is just going to be imaginary, and in fact, 17 billion will still go into the burden of the general fund, which will have to be covered. We planned a financial plan so that the revenue and expenditure of the institution would be offset and that, already this year, 23.1 billion of the total deficit would be covered, but because of budgetary underfunding and too low the rate of contribution, which, in my opinion, was contrary to the logic of this insurance, which has already been lost, has been reduced, it has virtually been possible to monitor this deficit over the next four years. What's waiting for us this year? Probably the balance of the financial plan of the institution and probably the balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as the methodology for the coordination of pensions is also being adopted. Initially, it indicated that the reconciliation of pensions this year would be only 2% in September. It is obvious that, according to the last salary, this will be around 6%, which will require an additional 8 billion, which is likely to be possible with the rebalance of the financial plan of the institution, and the budget, of course, by your decision or by changing internal items or by a rebalancing. Let me say that the government's agreement office on the 2000 financial plan did not receive it. We have received the opinion of the Ministry of Labour that there are no comments on the financial plan of the institution. The latest financial plan, according to 2001 and received it, means that in the first half of this year he was able to operate more successfully than it has been shown. The calculation of the State's obligations for this year, for the previous year, has been carried out. When agreement is given on the financial plan, the budget increases and flows faster, so that the financial situation of the institution is now favourable. However, since it was able to pay a lump sum pensioner's allowance this year, one month ago, the institution had to hire new loans for the June pension funds and for this supplement amounting to 6 billion and another 6 billion, 12 billion, which it will, of course, be returning by the end of this half-year. Finally, let me say that the new pension system is timed so that the unnecessary deficits of the institution at the end of the year, which are not even so high in relation to the total expenditure of the institution, will no longer be a practice, as the law requires the State, is said from the Republic of Slovenia and the budget to cover this if there are deficits in the pension register. Even if this cashier becomes ineligible, the budget will jump in and confirm this liquidity or provide funds last year, of course, this has failed. Despite such a legal provision, the institution had to rent loans at the end of the year. Some other decisions that had a financial position were also adopted, and additional capital company funds were intended for this purpose. We have also received the decision of the parental committee. I must say that the proposals they make are very acceptable to the institution, in particular the additional decisions which the Committee has appointed. This is an invitation to the government to withdraw, however, the claim for outstanding costs to the tax administration for past years, as the institution considers that it was not justified or obliged to do so. That's what the government thought. The then finance ministers and later, when we agreed, were of the opinion that we should not pay these costs. The current regulations also exempt the Government from paying for Durs for the collection of contributions and for the payment of contributions. I therefore believe that the Committee's report is correct and we agree with these conclusions. I hope that from the previous pessimistic speeches that I have had in this national assembly, despite the deficit of 17 billion, or the burden of the general fund this year at the end of the year, despite the fact that the deficit in 2000 was the highest, there will be no need to talk about the deficits of the pension institution in the future, only if what is beautifully written in the law and in the planning acts is achieved. At times, however, we had a rather poor experience that we had very beautiful memoranda and other acts, while things went on at the end of the second path. I hope this doesn't happen this time. However, once again, the insurance and pension institution has ensured a smooth entry into the new insurance system. Complaints about the work of the institution were relatively small, the procedures were resolved relatively quickly and the duration of the proceedings increased by only seven days. Toni so much, because when we went into reform, the law did not give even a day to the institution to implement the preparations. The law entered into force with 1.1.2000 and the institution had to implement the new law the following day. But he had to prepare all the computer and other programs to make it work. Perhaps a few more words about the protection of disabled workers and a large number of disabled people waiting for work and retraining these other options for treatment. In this area, there is still a very large number and high growth of unemployed people with disabilities. Although growth is smaller than it has been in the past years, I must say that we have given special emphasis to this in the Office and the Ministry of Labour, and now in the Government, within the Government's Disability Committee. The Institute has therefore also drawn up an appropriate financial programme, so that I hope that this thing will be significantly better by the end of the year than in the business report by the end of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The material was treated by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. Mr. Brenčič, on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all and also to the representatives of the office, with the Director-General at the head. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy, as the parent working body, considered the report at its 6th regular session. The report shall be submitted in accordance with the law on pension and invalidity insurance, which provides in Article 237 that an annual report should also be submitted to the national assembly and addressed accordingly. The Committee members were provided with a comparatively broad report by the proposer. In doing so, I would only point out what may not have been stated in the previous implementation of the Director-General that it has been pointed out that the institution as an institution does not have any special impact on the expenditure and income of the institution under the legal provisions. It was also pointed out that there was a problem of competence to decide on write-offs, deferrals and periodic repayments, as well as the problem of not giving the government consent to the financial plan of the institution. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered the report to be well prepared and that some kind of chronological presentation of the implementation of the new law on pension and disability insurance, with all its specificities, which were present during the first year of implementation of the law. They also pointed out the reality of the reduction or the real possibility of reducing the deficit. It was also pointed out that applications for State pensions had been slowly resolved. In this regard, the rapporteur's representative also briefed the members of the Committee on the full content of the problems related to these issues. In view of the fact that, at the time of the adoption of the 2001 budget, it was not possible or possible for the institution to present to the Members a live financial plan for 2001, the members of the Committee felt it was only good for the representative of the institution to present an honest report for the year 2000, which has also happened today. And that's good. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee adopted a finding proposing to the National Assembly that, following the consideration of the annual report, it adopt a decision, in accordance with Rule 173 of the Rules of Procedure, which is presented in the report of the Committee. In addition, two additional decisions were proposed as a parent working body for the consideration and adoption of the National Assembly, namely: "On the basis of the assurances given to the institution, the Government shall ensure that the application of the Republic of Slovenia for payment of compensation for the work of the DURS for 1997 and 1998 is also effectively withdrawn." In line with the ongoing debate on the report, there is another additional conclusion: "The Government should consider establishing a more operational way to write off, write-offs, deferrals and pay-offs." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I don't see any government representatives here. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Drobnič, Nova Slovenija, then Mr Kebrič, DeSUS, has first applied. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you so much for the word I have received. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. Allow me to give the opinion of the parliamentary group on the report of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute in 2000. First of all, it is worth noting that the report is prepared in accordance with these basic standards and the law, and we have no comments on that. It would touch on some of the substantive matters covered by that report. In view of what the director of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute has said, all the problems, we could quickly conclude that we would need a decent reform in Slovenia, a pension, but not in such a way as to simply reduce some, especially the lowest pensioners, but to address those serious problems that have arisen. First of all, the pension deficit, which we kind of patch up, then it's partly a real pension drop, then it's a problem of collecting contributions, privileged pensions and dissipators. Last but not least, what the Director also mentioned is the problem that the institution is turning into a state institution that has no influence on business, that the institution, together with the fund, would turn into an insurance company for the benefit of, in particular, the pensioners and the state. Contributions have been mentioned, contributions are at a lower level than they once were, so as to relieve the economy. All I can say is that this was a more popular move by the government or political parties, political parties, in the pre-election campaign. Indeed, it introduced a wage tax, which, for example, is a more appropriate instrument for burdening the economy. However, this wage tax is indicated in the budget treasury. This makes us move further away from the principle that what belongs to the insurance company must come to the insurance company. We need to link the issue of pension and disability insurance to other legislation. We have pointed out this, Members of New Slovenia, when adopting family legislation. If we do not correct demographic policy and also improve family policies that are more favourable to births and children, then we will face this problem of deficit more and more chronically. Capital fund. The Capital Fund now affords itself a government as a convenient little to address the deficit, as we have heard about the deficit that has been achieved in recent years. However, we do not know or realize why we have formed and set up a capital fund. With regard to the large resources allocated to those waiting for the employment of persons with disabilities, the Director has already explained well. If this trend, which has been in recent years, has also been reversed due to the measures imposed by Mr Director, we will be very pleased and favoured in the Group of Members. Let's hope the next report shows this. These imbalances should also be noted. If you look at military pensions, those military pensions, the recipients of which are former Yugoslav Army officers and those officers who have crossed over to the Slovenian side. The difference is obvious, but not as much as most of you think, in favour of those who have crossed the national side, in favour of those who have not crossed. Slovenia is continuing this strange journey, as I have already mentioned in the victims of war violence. We're becoming some kind of phenomenon. It comes to an end in the enforcement of state pensions, and it's stuck because we don't have a basic civil book. If we had at least a civil book at the level of Mary Teresa, we would not have encountered a pension and disability insurance institution with these problems. I hope that by means of sub-laws or regulations, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will resolve this by its own means. We took note of the report, we believe it is prepared correctly, but there is still much work to be done, especially those who have decided to manage this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a report ahead of us on the operation of the SPIZ that I do not use the shortcut, the institution for pension and disability insurance. We believe that at least those of us who were already in the previous mandate, and we have received this report every year, that this is also a good one this time, at least in this context, transparent. Those who have gone a little deeper into these numbers have been able to see many things, especially in comparison with previous years. In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, as well as in the party as such, we believe that the pension register - so I will call the ZPIZ - should be even more transparent. Why? We must be aware that there are so many matters in this report that we consider not to be pensions. We need to separate what a pension is, what people in their active lives have earned, when they have paid their contributions, and what are the other parts that are now placed in the pension fund, and I will give just a few examples. These are certain additions or contributions or benefits from the pension fund, specifically representing, in a more specific sense, not only in a broader sense social context. There are also state pensions of deserving artists, for which I do not know what the reason would be - but I know the motive - but let it be excluded, let it be transparent, let it be known what the pension is, what others are, so to speak, for the pension costs, and for the recipients of income to know who gets what. I can't go beyond privileged pensions; I can't go beyond the fact that, from the start, our country's independence and independence have started to retire according to certain, completely different criteria. We demand transparency in order to know, repeat, what pensions are, what is from the address, when the state of Slovenia has reduced the contribution rate for employers and commits itself to make up for this, as much as necessary, if the contribution money flows into the pension allowance. If you look at it, it is clear in the report - I say round - that contributions today cover expenditure alone, round, about 70 per cent or more, everything else draws the state budget. And now we're dealing with a problem. The state budget, when it has to transfer to the pension fund, we all jump to this contribution, this transfer is too high. Let it be known exactly what is behind what is behind it, what is behind it. Therefore, I repeat that we want to find or see in the future report what the concrete purpose was. We want to know what is really about pensions, what is about other social benefits, what are certain pensions for which the state is obliged to contribute, because it has allowed such and other early retirements and what are also those additional state-owned, privileged pensions. Once we have this transparent, we will clearly see that pensioners are not too expensive for this country to earn their pensions. What does the government propose is a privileged pension? This should be defined once. The reform, which was the basis for this report as it is before us today, saved more than 20 billion last year. I'm not talking about something else, but I'm talking about savings, about cost reductions that would otherwise be 20 billion higher, and the cost thing today would represent 20 billion more than what's written down. These 20 billion are paid not only by pensioners, but in the main part of the pensioner, one part as well as the part that is in the social sphere that I was talking about earlier. For this year, this savings would be over 40 billion if there were no adequate September reconciliation of pensions. Who hopes to look the pensioners in the face and defend such a thing? We therefore expect that the methodology to be confirmed by the government tomorrow will at least give a patch to what the pensioners of the month of February, when pensions have been aligned by 4.8 and 5.4 for those who have been retired this year, reduced against what would have been. In our parliamentary group and in the party, we are aware that we must be state-of-the-art, that we must share the fate of the employees and that we can only cover ourselves as much as our blanket or blanket is large. We want to share the fate of others, but not anymore. At that time, we agreed to amend Article 150, which gave these savings, and the rest, provided that the government, the real state, is saving the same in all areas, not just pensions. The 150th Article and some others who make these savings are familiar to you because you read or listen to the media, and you know that today the initiatives, as well as the Health, Labour and Family Committee, have discussed the Government's views on these initiatives for a constitutional assessment of certain articles. The Committee has, excuse me, members of the Committee and members of the Committee, been very able to overcome this issue. An in-depth view and a certain contact between legal experts would open your eyes if not all of these initiatives were to be rejected. I expect and hope, like many pensioners, that the Constitutional Court will take the matter seriously for review and decide accordingly. That is why I have also given my separate opinion, where I demonstrate that certain initiators are right that Members and Members have been misled by the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, including from the government when they say everything is in accordance with the Constitution. We are not all legal experts for this or that, but now that we are studying things, the situation seems a little different. I'll finish with the next one. The pension generation, which is evident to live too long, because these demographic changes are a fact, but we must count on what is on the other hand - perhaps it is my theory or thesis - with the progress of technology, we must agree on what will be the result of this technological progress, when the need for labour is reduced, what will belong to those capital owners, what will belong to those who benefit from this capital, to create new value and thus create the basic conditions for the prosperity of each country and for the progress of humanity. We do not think that we can only say that the higher contribution rate is because we find that the contribution rate is too low for us to cover the expenditure of the pension fund. We are aware and watching and thinking that I am not saying what is going on elsewhere in the world, that it wants or wants to reduce the rights of pensioners, but that is not so easy, because a certain compromise is needed and is needed, both between employees and pensioners. We are pleased that we also have in law a reserved basic rule of the intergenerational agreement, that employees are now paying contributions to pay pensions to current pensioners and that their expected rights will then be paid by those who will then be employed. Another word or two about the capital fund. That's what I'm gonna finish right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Excuse me, Mr. Kebrich. Mr. Kebrich! I'm sorry, your debate is very general and in the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	The fund is intended for pensioners and it is not right that it has any other purpose, but it must help save the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I would ask the debaters or representatives of the groups of Members to stick to the agenda. This is the ZPIZ report, not the general debate on pensioners, the pension system and so on. Of course, we all want long and healthy lives for pensioners. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be relatively brief. In our SLS+SKD Group, we firmly believe that we have two cash registers in this country alongside the state budget, to which both the government and the National Assembly must have a great deal of attention and a delicate approach. These two treasury, both health insurance and pension insurance, will have a key impact on the structure of the state budget in the near future. Therefore, it is still necessary that the report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is prepared in a chronological manner and, in fact, analytically so that we can understand the following from it. Practically what the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Policy notes in the analysis of the implementation of the Pension Insurance Act. These two documents are thus sonic and essentially require the legislator to approach the statutory change in that area as soon as possible, as this report and in the year of implementation have proved necessary. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we certainly support the adoption as soon as possible of a decision by the National Assembly, proposed by the mother's working body, and I hope that it will be at an extraordinary meeting with which we propose to the Government that by the end of this year a new law on pension and disability insurance will be prepared and submitted to the Assembly by the end of this year, with which all that comes from this report will be forfeited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Is there anyone else from the parliamentary groups? No one else. I don't have any written applications for the debate. I will therefore, of course, limit the debate of the other Members and Members to 5 minutes, Mr Drobnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to replicate Mr. Kebrich in his [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	That's not gonna work. In fact, opinions as a Member may be given. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	As a Member, you can. Of course it's on the report. Why not? First, I would like to ask the director of the pension and disability insurance institution if he can assess what the savings under the new law are for this year - of course this is not a direct question for the material that touches on 31.12.2000 - if he can give us an approximate assessment. The government then gave an assessment if it can now give you what they're worth. As I have already announced, I'd like to replicate Mr. Kebrich. I also agree that those pensions, i.e. those benefits that are not directly linked to the payment of the pension fund, should be presented in particular, and so should be in the report. But not only what you mentioned, Mr. Kebrich. I would also like to see inside prizes for revolutionary violence in the Republic of Slovenia. This should certainly show off these awards. Not only in Slovenia, but also in Spain. Then the privileged pensions for what has not been paid the contributions of others should also be given the full picture. Thus, the deficit problem would be significantly smaller and the principle of fairness would be ensured. Then with regard to the novel adopted in December. Mr. Kebrich, this is a hoax. In December we in Novi Slovenija and a colleague from the Social Democratic Party warned and made clear what will happen and why this law is not constitutionally appropriate. We were outvoted. And that's why now speaking in half a year that you've been deceived is not worthy. We gave an opinion, you applauded it, you argued that it was necessary to accept these things for the sake of the Slovenian economy, but then we would have acted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	I can warn you, I will not allow replicas that are not related to the 2000 report. Because I allowed Mr. Kebrich, I didn't want to interrupt. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Mr Kebrič therefore gave his opinion, thinking, and if he allowed himself to answer the questions, I think it is allowed for me, just for a moment, to replicate it. I'll be done in a minute. If we compare this with the state pensions referred to by Mr Kebric, this is a key issue of the pension fund. If we find the actual expenditure in this report for all of the above, then we can find that state pensions do not affect the balance sheet, at least not in the global context if we compare it with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the expenditure of Slovenia's budget will be reduced and the contribution of the budget to last year's pension fund will be reduced, according to the report, over 160 billion tolars. It is an act that is dignified and that rationalizes business, simplifies and makes transparency more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. Procedurally, please, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. As far as I am aware of the rules of procedure, there are no replicas to the presentation of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	An individual Member may, but cannot, on behalf of the Group of Members to the Group of Members. That's how it is. Thank you. Please, "exposure" is Croatian, but I'll translate it if necessary. So we said we're working till 1:00, and please, who wants a word? [[No one else.]] If there is no further discussion, we would close the debate and decide on the decision proposed by the mother's working body. I don't know what that means now. Procedural, Mr. Petty Officer?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	I asked a question to a government representative, who I do not know now whether he will answer or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	The government's representative is not in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Relative to the representative of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	What if you can answer that? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Here I would like to say, the question was concrete how much the institution had saved. Let me just say that this savings thing is a relative term. Because we've had a new system since 2000, so we can't talk about savings. We now have a law as it is. However, if the reconciliation of pensions, as was the case in the previous year, was in fact in the data that Mr Kebrič said, about 20 billion. In addition, some other effects of the law, which were described very well in a special analysis prepared by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and which it took to the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, and which you found today will be dealt with sometime by the end of the year. In there, all the effects of the reform are already described in order to say that it was practically also a proposal from the institution for specific legislative changes. As regards the savings for 2001, the issue was a concrete one. Let me tell you, there are a lot of reserves here again. If previous systems were in place, if the system of 2000 were in force, but it was already a new system of pension coordination, because in Slovenia we change the reconciliation of pensions every two years, then we calculated from the beginning of the year, but this is a purely labour price to save 46 billion against that system. However, since the methodology for the coordination of pensions is now adopted, which will give more to pensioners, it is said, not 2% - I mentioned something over 6% earlier - it will be this, say, "saving" [[In noodles]] - I was even warned not to use that word - smaller. So everything else, which works in parallel, is the novelty of the law, because there are fewer pensioners from different conditions and so on, but in this analysis, which will be proposed to the National Assembly and explained by the Minister for Labour, and will be explained in more detail. Let me also say this: in view of the comments made on the business report, I agree with the opinion of the NSI Group of Members and, I think, I have no comments; also with regard to Mr Kebrić, these were more conclusions and opinions and I would not like to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Are we done with this? [[Yeah.]] The national working body shall propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly took note of the annual report of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute for 2000 and notes that the report has been prepared in accordance with Article 237 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act." This is the text of the proposed decision. Who wants to discuss this proposal for a decision? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I had not spoken before in the debate, but I could have done it sooner, and it would probably take longer. That is why I will now take advantage of this before we vote that I would still like to ask the representative of the institution another question, if you think you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	No, no, nothing more.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	No more?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	No more, just a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	This refers to a decision because the decision must also be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Then let's listen to the question, and we'll see if that concerns it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Also in the report and the debate - that's why I was stabbed because I had listened in the debate before - it is said that the institution saved 20 billion tolars. Now I'm wondering, what's the savings? Have you had fewer employees, fewer administrations, less time spent, so it was less paid, or were there fewer pensions? At the expense of this 20 billion savings, I am interested because it is also important how I will vote on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Mr Petan, I regret to note that your question is not related to the text of the decision, but this is a matter that we should put first in the debate, and, unfortunately, is not the time to answer either. We simply have to stick to the rules of the game and the rules of the game are such. The decision is here, we are discussing the text of the decision, if anyone is not satisfied with it, please make an amendment, a proposal to amend the decision - this is what we are talking about, not other things, which was discussed earlier. I'm sorry, but that's right. Does anyone want to discuss the text of the decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we can move on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting, please. Of the 60 present, 44 voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Bureau for attending the meeting. However, the additional decisions are the decisions of the Committee, not of the National Assembly. If I may also comment on the decision, which reads: The National Assembly is familiar with I do not know what this decision is. [[...]] But please, because with the new rules of procedure this will be resolved, I hope. That concludes this point. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m.: Committee Chairman Brenčič, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	I would point out to the Vice-President only that 237th Article of the Bureau of Disability Pension Insurance tells exactly what the report should contain. We, as a national assembly, are obliged to determine whether Article 237 of the Law, which has as many as four long paragraphs, has been fulfilled. The decision drawn up by the mother's working body shall be in accordance with the requirements of this Article. However, I think it would be okay if the National Assembly, with a proposal for additional decisions submitted by the mother labour body to the national assembly, also decided. With this, the National Assembly as a spoil binds or determines what to prepare for the government, which is a 'lack' arising from the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	The material you signed doesn't say that. But it says: The Committee has also drawn up additional conclusions, not a decision to propose to the National Assembly. [[...]] I believe that what is written here is the opinion of the committee. However, if you want us to vote on this, we can vote and debate, of course. Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I propose to the National Assembly to define up to both additional decisions. And these are also the additional conclusions of the National Assembly. It is true, however, that they were proposed by their mother’s working body to decide on the national council. I propose that we vote on these two additional conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	I apologize, but as chairman, I find that the material you have sent or submitted does not comply with the business arrangements. The formula doesn't fit. Therefore, these two additional decisions can only be considered as additional decisions of the Committee to be forwarded to the Government. We will not vote on them. That makes us Mr. Brenčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	May I suggest? As the SLS+SKD parliamentary group, we propose to the National Assembly to adopt these two additional decisions for consideration and adoption. The conclusions are identical to those of the Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	So you agree with this, because we're probably going to do it faster to vote on this than we're going to procedurally complicate it. I've allowed myself one of your decisions to correct a little bit to conform to other practices. It's two additional conclusions. First conclusion: The National Assembly proposes to the Government that, on the basis of the guarantees given to the institution, it ensure that the application of the Republic of Slovenia for payments and compensation for the work of the DURS for 1997 and 1998 will also be effectively withdrawn. Do you agree with that? Second conclusion: The National Assembly proposes to the Government to explore the possibility of establishing a more operational way to write off, partially write off, deferral and reverse payment of contributions. The initial part has been changed. Do you agree with that? Who wants to discuss these two additional conclusions? Mr. Peterle
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	In fact, my comment is procedural, because I have heard in my ears that the point has been closed and it has been announced when we start working tomorrow, and then there was another open debate over the Rules of Procedure. I'm against making that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Mr. Peterle, this claim is totally not true. The debate was concluded in the first part; in the second part, Mr Brejc reopened the debate. The debate is only open on the proposal of the Group of Members to adopt two additional decisions in the content read earlier by Mr Brejc. That's possible. The debate on the two additional conclusions is open. Anybody want to talk? We will vote on each decision individually. Mr. Anderlich, if you'd like a word, please report to the floor so we don't scream all over the hall. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	I suggest that we not decide on these two conclusions, so that you look at the magnetogram of the conclusion of this point. According to Mr Peterle's understanding, I understood, and this point was concluded. It is not true that this can be continued. Once you have read the magnetogram, we will be able to discuss and decide on these additional conclusions if this statement does not prove to be correct. I propose that we do not vote on this point until then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. This means that it is checked in the magnetogram that we have fully completed this item of the agenda and that there is no breach of the rules of procedure by any discussion and decision on the two additional decisions. It's not a good summary. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	I suggest we end this agenda. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I suggest you take a break and check it out on the account, but if you want to be on the behalf of the parliamentary group. But since it's 13 and 4 minutes, I think you can do this until you continue this point or this session, whenever it continues, and probably tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	I want a break on behalf of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-18-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. There is no debate on a procedural proposal, so I am putting it to the vote. We're adjourning the session. We're gonna check the magnetogram. Just let me get a message. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. by addressing the 26th item on the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border transport and cooperation. The assembly will then move on to the end of the 43rd item of the agenda, where we will carry out a second and third consideration of the proposal for a self-contribution law within the framework of the rapid procedure. We will then conclude the meeting with a discussion of the 51st item on the agenda, where we will check Mr Peterlet and Mr Anderlič's statements first. Thank you very much.
