ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Delak, Victory Jelinčič noble, Peter Levič, Roman Jakič and Davorin Terčon. Since we will determine the presence, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards and by pressing the "quorum" button we will determine the actual situation. We're picking up the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited representatives of the government to the meeting. The Minister is joining us. I say hello to him. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 40th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices; then by further consideration of the 41st item - a proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic; and then by order of order. So we move on to 40. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A AMENDMENT LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister of Health, Professor Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, it is a law that shortens the deadline for our adaptation to so-called patent legislation if I use the same term as in the field of medicines, which was adopted with us a few years ago and amended last year. They propose a postponement of the definitive application of these provisions by the end of 2002. This was also relevant at the time because, in particular, our pharmaceutical industry was under strong pressure to adapt relatively quickly to another area, namely the new registration of the re-registration of the European rules of all the old drugs that are on our market, which, of course, was a huge burden. In the meantime, our European negotiators have succeeded in reaching a 5-year postponement for this second part of the enforcement of legislation. At the same time, there was great pressure from the international public that, of course, something in which Slovenia "pull" out and what should last until the end of 2002 should be changed faster. Well, we are also assessing in the government that this five-year suspension of our concession in the constitutional field gives us the opportunity to give Parliament the law according to the normal procedure that shortens this postponement. In fact, you have a very simple article ahead of you. In view of the fact that this postponement will be lifted until 2002 and that, as soon as this law is adopted, of course, in normal procedure, this delay will no longer exist and Slovenia, in particular its pharmaceutical industry, will fully adapt to the requirements in force in Europe. That's for a short time, which is how I explain it, a change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. On the bill proposal, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, I welcome you very much. I also welcome the Minister. Well, the Committee on Labour, Family, Health, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the draft law at its 7th regular session on 7.6. To the members of the committee, the opening statement and the content of the law and the purpose of the law were presented by the Director of the Medicines Office, Mr Stanislav Primožič, and would not repeat, given that Mr Minister, as a representative of the motioners, has also explained to the assembly what this bill is really about. It is important, however, to stop somewhat in the opinion of the secretariat, with which the members of the Committee have been briefed both in writing and in the oral implementation, and in this opinion the secretariat notes that the proposal has a law, depending on the level of business, all the components which are involved and which are also necessary at the constitutional level. It is important to say, however, that, with regard to the justification for the changes at constitutional level, the Secretariat has added that until the Republic of Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union, within the legal order of the Union, a transitional period has been granted and it will not yet be possible to have an economic or economic effect within the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that the meaning or purpose of deleting Article 116 of the Act is questionable or unclear. From a systemic point of view, however, the Secretariat considers that the proposed solution to delete Article 116a of the Law would be to re-examine and determine whether it is systemically meaningful. The proposed deletion of that provision is also not explained whether Slovenia’s economic and economic interests have changed in the meantime. The Secretariat, in terms of the legal technical finding, considers that it is necessary to correct the words "two months" legally in such a way as to replace them with the words "60th day". Thus, the date of implementation of the proposed amendment will be precise. In the debate, Members touched somewhat on whether the explanation for the law was indeed the right content which dictated the abolition of Article 160a, given that Article 116a was created as a novelty of this Act a good year ago in particular in order to protect the domestic pharmaceutical industry. Following the discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the following conclusions: "The proposal of the Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices is an appropriate basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading text. The draft law for second reading shall be drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the following views: The first is the opinion of the secretariat that the applicant takes into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Second, consider the possibility that applications for a marketing authorisation for medicinal products lodged with the competent administrative authority by the date of entry into force of this Act shall be dealt with in accordance with the law applicable until the application of this law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. We have not received written submissions to the debate, which is why the discussion of possible debaters in the future is limited to five minutes. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, again, Madam Vice President. I had a certain scepticism at the Committee's meeting when it addressed the proposal for a law, mainly from the point of view that we are a good year ago when we considered the amendment of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, in particular with a view to protecting the interests of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, which in general is a very important factor in our real sector to protect their interests, and therefore, by introducing 116.a., we have somehow delayed the implementation of this law, in fact Article 15 of the Basic Law, for two years. The more I deepened my understanding of the applicant's explanation, the more I found that the actual abolition of the measure that we have introduced in order to protect this area of the domestic industry with this novelty is not so much a need to adapt ours, I would say, the legal order and regulation of the normative field of medicines, which is very important in view of the European Union's expectations, but the reason for this is a little wider and does not, in particular, cover the areas of our trade in medicines or medicines on European soils, in this sense. Therefore, without deepening myself, I think it is very good that the bill-proposer, who will prepare the proposal for a second reading, and the government as a whole, firmly relies on the second position that the Committee has taken and proposed to the proposer - that, despite the fact that this law will be adopted, all those applications submitted for the granting of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products to the relevant republican administrative authority shall be taken into account under the old law. This is a great opportunity for our pharmaceutical industry, so to speak, to be confirmed by all the procedures currently under way and, on the basis of these procedures, to obtain a marketing authorisation for the market or for the marketing of medicinal products on domestic soil and, of course, also in the European Union. However, it would also be good if the applicant, in view of the certainly valid arguments, both our two most important companies, Lek and Krka, in view of the law that has been tabled, would also deepen a little in the sense of trying to calculate what, after all, in the context of the implementation or abolition of Article 116, might mean to our pharmaceutical industry. And if he believes that this influence is only too great, it is only right that he will somehow present this on the proposal of the law for second reading, perhaps in a simple report or a computerised calculation, what follows. Of course, as a group of Members and me personally, we will support the law. It is right, however, that the law continues as it is set, by regular procedure, regardless of the routine. This law is very important to our country, to our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law amending the law on medicines and medical devices, the first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote! 65 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a discussion and decision-making on the two positions prepared by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body and presented recently by the president of the parent working body. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for two views in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the Minister for his cooperation. Thank you very much to the representative of the secretariat. We're moving to 41. Period of the day - Third defense of the bill on the verification of lists in international transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Hinko Jenull, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The law is submitted for third reading in accordance with the positions adopted in this National Assembly at the second reading held in 1997. It is one of the laws that the State of Slovenia is obliged to adopt in order to replace the law that has been passed in the previous country - this is the law on the legalisation of instruments in international traffic - and is still applicable under the basic law for the implementation of the Charter of Independence and Independence. The solutions introduced by the law are practically the same as those in force under the current rules, by simplifying the operations of the applicant in the three amendments or in the two amendments proposed for adoption by the National Assembly in those cases where certain certificates are being carried out in accordance with our legal order by notaries and even by notaries are facilitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the secretariat for legislation? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to the next five minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. The Government has tabled an amendment to Articles 4 and 13. We will decide on the basis of the review of the amendments of 5.7.2001. I am putting two amendments to Article 4. The proposaler is both government, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 13, of which the Government is also proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Before we go to the full vote on the law, I ask, pursuant to the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative of the Secretariat, if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the proposal. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 42. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive motion for a bill proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, a quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Hinko Jenull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The government is proposing to adopt a law on the election of candidates for judges of international courts. This is due to the fact that the current legislation in this area is lacking. There is no special law for these elections, but only the Constitutional Court Act governs the procedure for proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia as a judge of the European Court of Human Rights. However, the development of international law and international courts requires that the election of candidates for these courts be organised in a comprehensive and specific manner. Let me remind you that in addition to the European Court of Human Rights, we expect the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court to be ratified. It is expected that the State of Slovenia will also appear in the framework of integration into the European Union as a candidate for these courts. In the preparation of the law, we came from the arrangements we know about constitutional judges. This means that the post of candidate for a judge of an international court shall be reserved for a special procedure following the receipt of the applications made by the Ministry responsible for the judiciary and in which the provisions on judicial protection are included. In the following proceedings, the President of the Republic shall propose candidates for election to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after having previously obtained the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to the Council of Justice. In particular, a procedure shall be developed to allow for the selection of the required number of candidates by secret ballot in the national assembly. The same procedure will also apply until the election of the temporary alternate to the international court and the additional judges of the international court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law? Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. The Committee supported the rapid procedure for the reasons already mentioned here. On the basis of the opinion of our Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Committee has drawn up several amendments that are nothing more than cleaning up the text and, of course, invited you, Members of Parliament and Members to support them. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. We have not received written submissions to the debate and the debate is therefore limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to.) I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 5.7.2001. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, whose proposer is the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article, whose proposer is the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 5 and on the amendment to this Article, whose proposer is also an internal policy committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the amendment to this Article, whose proposer is the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 7 and the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to this Article to amend this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 7 has been fully amended. We have held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 54 votes against one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to discuss the title? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 53 votes against one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments may undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State very much for his cooperation, as well as the representative of the Secretariat. Thank you very much. We're moving to 43. Period of the day - a bill of self-preservation, a quick procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Since there are no government representatives yet, we will wait for another moment. Procedural proposal, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	I see no reason for government members or their representatives to wait. There's no procedural reason to wait for them - if they're not there, they're gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, we're about to check to see if they're in the lobby or on the way, or we'll continue with agenda 44. Thank you very much. Government representatives are on their way, but I really don't see any reason not to continue with the next point because he is a government representative, mag. Franz Znidaršič, Secretary of State, between us. So we move on to 44. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplements of the law on victims of military violence, a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mag. Franz Znidaršič, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. The government has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence because the Constitutional Court of 10.2.2000 found that this law was inconsistent with the Constitution, unless it abolished the discriminatory solution of Article 5 of the Act, whereby the military war invalids were unable to fulfil the status of victims of war violence by 19.6.1999, insofar as they already had and established the status of a war veteran. In this case, there is a change in respect of the Constitutional Court decision. If this amendment or amendment of this law also concerns civil persons with disabilities of war, it must be said that it is the same case as was also announced to be dealt with before the Constitutional Court and the Government has found it inappropriate to wait for the Constitutional Court to encourage it to regulate the rights of civil persons with disabilities of war. So both things are virtually the same, only in the first case of war invalids who until the same date, 19.6.1999, because of the status of veterans, were not able to exercise rights to the status of war violence, even though for the second time period, but at the same time civil disabled persons were able to enforce the status of victims of war violence by the same date after that date, and no more, which would, of course, result in the same decision in terms of unequal or discriminatory conduct of law in the Constitutional Court. This amendment removes both errors, and in this sense the change is also ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee considered the draft law at its 7th regular session and, given that the drafter of the Act seeks, in particular, to satisfy or resolve the shortcomings of the law, as determined by the Constitutional Court in his decision, the debaters or members and members of the Committee did not have any specific comments on the law. They supported the adoption of the law by means of a reduced procedure, including in view of the fact that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs finds that the conditions for the reduced procedure are met and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since I have not received written applications for the debate, the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. The bill has two articles. There are no amendments to the article, so we will discuss and decide on both articles separately. I shall give Article 1 to the debate and to the decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to decision-making on Article 1. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 which regulates the validity of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on Article 2. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 2 is also fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to, I conclude the debate and note that no amendments have been adopted in the second reading of the draft law, so no amendments can be tabled in the third reading. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State and the representative of the Secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're going back and moving on to 43. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DETERMINATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SELF LAW - A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government adopted the proposal for a self-contribution law at its 26th meeting, on 10.5.2001. At that time, the Government also decided that the proposal for a law would be examined in a reduced procedure, mainly because it was the reason for the expiry of the former law following a decision of the Constitutional Court or the harmonisation with a decision of the Constitutional Court adopted in 1999. The Act on self-contribution, formerly in force in 1986, was repealed, as you know, by the Constitutional Court with effect from 9.12.2000. The reasons for repealing the law were, in particular, in the systemic non-compliance of this regulation with subsequent legislative acts, including the newly adopted Slovenian Constitution, and in particular with legislation on local self-government and municipal financing. The fact that the legal basis for the self-sustainment of transactions is no longer, of course, is not good, since there are a number of initiatives in the municipalities for the introduction of self-sustainment. It is precisely that the legal basis for this duty, the public benefit which the municipality may impose under our Constitution, is my reason to propose that this legal vacuum be filled as soon as possible and that the law on self-contribution be adopted. It is undeniable that in Article 147, the Constitution gives the municipalities the power to lay down public levies. However, under the conditions set out by some of the laws themselves, or by law, and this law should provide that a public benefit at municipal level may be imposed by a specific form of direct decision, that is to say by a referendum decision. About the content of the law itself, I don't think it shows a lot of words to lose. The fact is that a self-contribution can be introduced after a previous referendum. The Law on Local Self-Government already has provisions on how to determine the referendum outcome or who are beneficiaries, such as the voting method, of the majority of the voting beneficiaries in a particular area, namely those who took part in the vote. The law sets out very precisely what funds can be allocated for. He says, for the construction and reconstruction of public municipal infrastructure, transport infrastructure, infrastructure in the field of child care, primary education, health care, culture, sport and other infrastructure provided by the municipality. Perhaps even this, the basis for the imposition of this duty is the investment programme. I would also say that the law is the basis for an additional financial source for public service funding at municipal level, which means that it does not constitute new financial burdens, but vice versa, provides a positive or at least a legal basis for positive financial effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Since I was not present at the meeting myself, it would be immoral to tire you of reading this report. But I would point out two things that I've said, I'll say, I'll understand these days when we're preparing for this point of the agenda. First of all, it is both the Council of State and the Members themselves - that they had a lot of comments on the draft law itself and that is why they had the government prepare the amendments. Therefore, the Committee is convinced that the June meeting will be concluded within a normal period of time and that we will start the July meeting on a regular basis, we will adopt the decision as it is. This is - I think you have read it - that the National Assembly, after general consideration, decides to wait for the opinion of the local communities and for amendments to the law in the form of amendments, if the concerns of local communities or Members come across the open ears. I am aware that the government has prepared some amendments, so I am this point - and I am now aware even that the June session will be concluded this week - so I convened a meeting of the Internal Policy Committee on Thursday morning at 8.30 a.m., where we will define ourselves to the amendments, that is, to the amendments of such Members, the Joint List Group of Members, the amendments of the Government that I do not have yet, and of course we may also form our own amendments. On a few pages of the long report, it is clear that the opinions of Members have repeatedly been severely slashed, not only around the scale, but also around other issues. So I would suggest - or I would like to formulate myself - that we correct the Committee's decision to "make a decision on the basis of the law on local self-government" - but we do not say anything until the next meeting - "acquire the opinion of local communities." Why? Since this opinion has already been obtained, it is in the house, it is sent to the government, an option is given. And in this way, we may ensure that Thursday we experience some consensus on these key issues, create amendments, support them, reject others, and continue on Friday with a rapid procedure which, I must stress, is supported on all sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Would you like a word, Mr. Franz Sušnik? Here you go. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Well, I would like to express my opposition to the Group's proposed self-contribution law. The reasons why we opposed the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure were partly or partly stated when the agenda was adopted. And our opposition to the speedy procedure further substantiates the opinion of more than 20 municipalities which oppose the adoption of law by swift procedure, because they also consider that the proposed law does not meet all the necessary conditions for the implementation of a referendum that would be signed under this law. The reasons why we oppose the proposed law in our parliamentary group are primarily for the introduction of the self-contribution provided for in Article 1 of the proposed law. In our opinion, the introduction of self-contribution must not, in any case, be for the performance of the basic tasks of local communities, for the performance of the basic tasks of municipalities referred to in Article 13 and for the purposes of Article 16a of the Law on Local Self-Government. If the citizens of the municipality or the works of the municipality express themselves for self-contribution, the purpose of the introduction should be clearly defined only for state-of-the-art public infrastructure facilities, only for superstandard transport infrastructure facilities and for any superstad in the field of child protection, education, basic education, healthcare, culture, sport and general self-contribution referendum should, in our conviction, be introduced only to meet all kinds of superstandard public needs. By no means can this be for the purpose of covering the statutory tasks of municipalities, local communities. We firmly believe that basic infrastructure must be provided within the framework of public spending and thus must not be subject to the introduction of self-sustainment, nor must any co-financing of the construction of primary infrastructure by the State be defined or even conditional upon the introduction of self-suspension, which has already happened or what is still going on, which has also been recorded in the opinion of the competent committee. For all of this, such a legal solution is questionable in terms of equality before the law. In a generally well-known fact that referendums for the introduction of self-contribution in larger municipalities or, if you wish, urban municipalities have generally failed or failed, and if this law were to be enforced, they would, as proposed, legitimize the marked inequalities between urban areas and the outskirts. Residents of municipalities, local rural communities, who should be given special care in accordance with the legislation adopted and declared consistent regional development, the special care of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the special concern of this national council, would be forced by this law to impose additional tax burdens on themselves, in order to meet the basic needs that are self-sustainable in other urban areas. This is totally unacceptable. I therefore stress once again that the meaningful and fair introduction of self-sustainment is only for superstandard projects. However, we strongly oppose the purpose that can be understood from the draft law and the explanation, by means of self-contribution, by additional voluntary taxation, the Government seeks to replace the funds that have been lost or intends to replace the funds that should be allocated to rural development. This, I think, is what I propose to be clearly seen from the law in explanation, and we strongly oppose this purpose. We also associate ourselves with the view that in this proposal, there is a whole lot of inadequacies that question the possible adoption of the law. If I just mention this, I will say that the inadequacy about the adoption of the decree - we well know that at the municipal level the municipal council adopts the decrees - then I cannot imagine how to form electoral directories at the level of the municipality on the basis of the provisions of this law or Article 10, and I could also mention it. In our opinion, there are even more such inconsistencies, but I would also like to express my disagreement with what has been said in the Committee's opinion. We expected that, on the basis of the Committee's debate, before the debate at the national assembly, the government's amendments in terms of committee discussion would also be available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, Honourable Assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! First of all, I'd like to find out that I'm a little bit surprised at the work of the National Assembly. We have a point to make, and the proposal for a law on self-contribution, the parent working body, and the Committee on Internal Policy has not actually completed its work on this topic. Nevertheless, I would like to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. The contribution is also known from the previous arrangement as a specific form of fundraising, as we have had the custom of saying, to satisfy and fulfil certain common needs and interests and to carry out the tasks of the local community. The local communities had to finance themselves to the greatest extent, with the self-contribution of the citizens who had been voted in the referendum, which was usually not enough for the most pressing needs in the settlements. It is therefore a public duty which differs from taxes after its purpose has been predetermined and introduced by direct decision at the referendum. This is a kind of self-taxation of citizens, unlike other referendums, where political matters are usually decided. The applicant submits that the rapid adoption of the law is necessary and in the interest of the State, since the local community cannot obtain additional resources for the construction and reconstruction of local public infrastructure without self-contribution because it is not regulated by law, since the Constitutional Court repealed the previous law. The proposal for a self-sustainment law before us, in our view, is not good and is weak, because it does not meet all the necessary conditions for successful implementation, has many shortcomings. If I mention some: who has the right to vote in the referendum, a voting right on the basis of a property criterion is questionable, then the difference between a natural and a legal person with regard to the voting right is not produced or exists, then the determination of the procedure for the assessment of the collection and recovery of the contribution and the type of other shortcomings. We believe that the contribution itself has survived the form of fundraising for investment in municipalities or parts of municipalities, although such a form is sometimes present. In some settlements or places, however, we would like to reintroduce our contribution. Moreover, we believe that self-contribution is the remnant of previous times and that it does not belong to the modern country for which we so support ourselves. Such forms of funding of other European Member States, I think, do not know the members of the European Union. The system of local community funding is one of the most important areas of local self-government.The material basis, sufficient financial resources, is essential for the quality and effective functioning of local communities, communities, for their functioning and performance. Moreover, the level of autonomy of the municipality depends on the funding system. Financial independence is one of the elements of self-government and it is therefore understandable that the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 1.10.1996, sets out principles which should also be respected by the signatory countries in the drafting of domestic legislation. These principles, however, allow me to list them: the principle of adequacy, which requires the local community to have adequate financial resources of its own with which it freely disposes, within the framework of its powers, the principle of proportionality relating to the proportionality of financial resources with the tasks laid down in the Constitution and laws. The principle of self-financing means that at least part of the funds in local communities must come from their own taxes and other charges, the amount of which is determined by local communities themselves within the limits of the law. The principle of elasticity - according to this principle, financial resources must be diverse and flexible in order to be able to follow the real movement of the costs of providing services. The principle of equalisation - according to this principle, it is the duty of the State to ensure equality between local communities. The principle of cooperation, which means that the local community is asked for an opinion on how financial resources should be allocated. Next, the principle of autonomy, which means that the resources allocated by the State should not be strictly earmarked for local communities. A principle of indebtedness requiring local communities to have access to the domestic capital market to borrow more investment in the legal framework. It is clear from all these principles that the European trend in local community funding is that local communities should play a greater role in raising funds or in deciding on how to use them, in short, to increase financial autonomy. Local self-government funding systems in modern conditions should be based on a combination of three ways of raising funds: local community taxes, complementary funds from the wider community and credits. It is therefore a little strange that the proposer, the government, on the one hand, sends us to the reception of ultras, could say, modern and unacceptable laws for us - here I am thinking of the law on the treatment of infertility and fertilization with biomedical assistance, which the citizens rejected at the referendum and, on the other hand, the law on self-sustainment, which has survived and is not being judged today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Parties will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members. In the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 4.11.1999 and the validity of this Decision by 1.1.2000, that a new law on self-contribution is urgently needed. Of course, in the proposed law, the Group of Members raises quite a few questions that should be further completed and finalized in the follow-up procedure. Indeed, the first of the basic issues that we agree with in principle is already set out in Article 1; we consider this to be reasonable. In fact, citizens in an area of the municipality or a particular area of the lower part of the municipality decide for themselves which part and for what purpose they will raise funds, and this free decision is probably also the decision for which the law should also determine the purpose of collecting a dedicated part of the funds. In Article 2, the question is what will be the quorum, which is supposed to be a sufficient basis for a decision at the referendum. In fact, it is necessary to establish here that, until now, the debate has repeatedly stressed that an absolute majority criterion is possible to decide to confirm a specific referendum issue, a high quorum which would in some way restrict the possibility of self-contribution. On the contrary, we can see that there are no other possible ways of raising funds, apart from direct conclusion of contracts with citizens, which we know is very difficult work in practice. Therefore, the actual provision in Article 2 in the further examination of the law should be further finalised. It is very important for us to raise the question of Article 9, which speaks of who should vote, who has the right to vote in the referendum area. Indeed, we believe that voting rights must also be given to owners or users of property and that they, of course, are also committed to the payment of the contribution as well as to rights arising from certain tasks for which citizens also decide in a given area. In fact, I think it's essential to stress the following. All people, those who have a permanent residence, or those who are real estate users, create and live in a specific area and it is everyone's interest that this area is the maximum infrastructure, as well as other tasks. In fact, it makes sense that in Article 13, this right to self-contribution is guaranteed to everyone. I would also like to address the question of what the source of these funds should be, as also defined in Article 13. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we believe that it is imperative to make it clear that self-sustainment means additional funds from municipalities or their smaller parts. The law does not speak of these narrower parts at this time. But we do know that, at least for now, we have a lot of tighter parts, which also have legal personality status. On this basis, the question of the role of self-contribution could in some way be substantially closer to the people where they live, and in some ways it would be easier to make this decision, which is also decided at the referendum. It seems important in the parliamentary group to have a 14-day public debate on the proposal for a law to the local communities. For we believe that the Law on Self - Contribution is one of those key laws in which a national assembly should receive the opinion of the congregations before a final decision is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United Nations List of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed text and will also support the rapid procedure. We are aware that the Constitutional Court's decision has created a void that needs to be filled with a new legal text on self-contribution. However, we believe that self-contribution is one of the possible ways to regulate matters in the local community, and that it is either transport infrastructure or infrastructure in the field of social activities. Since the law also sets out more precisely the purpose and the area where self-contribution can be introduced, this seems to us to be an appropriate solution and we support this proposed solution. In addition, the proposed text also refers to the fact that the introduction of self-contribution is related, however, to the free decision of the countries at work or in the whole of the municipality, which means that it depends on their will whether the contribution will be voted on or not. And given that, in particular, in a rural area where self-sustainment has been possible in a short time, it has been possible to settle some essential issues that have improved the quality of life, and because it shows that the interest in self-sustainment has still not been extinguished in the environment, it is good to support this law. We will also support the decision drawn up by the Internal Policy Committee. However, I should like to point out that the question of the adequacy or inadequateness of the scale, which determines the percentage of the contribution from the average salary, has already been raised in our Group's Internal Policy Committee's proposal that a differentiated or more scattered consideration should be given to the contribution mainly for those with higher personal income, in particular those whose income exceeds 100% of the average wage. In this regard, we have also drawn up a proposal that we presented on the Internal Policy Committee. Therefore, the United Nations Group supports both the rapid procedure and the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mr Dušan Vukko will present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In view of the views already expressed by all parliamentary groups, I would also like to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. We support and believe that it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible so that, in local communities where they want it, they can also introduce self-sustainment in accordance with this law. In particular, we believe that it is a good solution to the provision which provides that a self-contribution can be introduced following a previous referendum, in which most of all the voting beneficiaries are pronounced for the introduction of self-contribution, because we believe that a large degree of consensus should be reached in certain environments for the introduction of such self-contribution. Nevertheless, we have identified a number of shortcomings in the parliamentary group, which we have already pointed out on the working body, and we believe that it is necessary to support the decision of the working body in order to have a general hearing today by the national assembly. Then let the mother's working body carry out its work and then proceed with the second and third examinations in the context of the rapid procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament because the Members who wanted to make their views known. Mr Cyril Pucko made a written statement to the debate. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I am not allowed to politicise or comment on the views of the groups of Members, I would only say that I may even agree with most of what I have said. I would say that this law of force is inappropriate and, as such, in practice difficult to enforce. He leaves even a group or groups of debtors; he leaves employed Slovenian citizens abroad with permanent residence in our country - thousands still in our area - who have solid incomes and would probably be, if we are talking about some fairness or solidarity, also entitled to be self-contribution debtors. I would like to know on the basis of what simulations the scale referred to in Article 16 has been drawn up and how it is aligned with the expected changes in the income scale, in particular for those classes that will be exempt from payments, for the minimum classes or minimum incomes that will be exempt from income payments; this is the case. I am also interested - perhaps I could even use the simulations that one of the mayors tried to make in our area, that this law, such as it is, essentially eliminates almost the entire population of farmers. Given the cadastral income that is calculated according to the current methodology, you wouldn't actually be paid anything. He went to recalculate and found that in the municipality with about 5,000 people in the first half of the year, about 16,000 Slovenian tolars of self-contribution would pay on the basis of such a law. And if we place a higher-a-vis on this scale, the proposal of the United Letter amending Article 16, this demagogy goes to a second extreme: to the extreme, on the basis of free will, those with the highest income are still subject to an additional 4% tax. I think it's puzzled with logic or it tells me that this proponent is some successor to the continuity; it actually literally and very figuratively says this, but maybe more about it later. So, I am particularly interested in the following: on the basis of some simulations, if we can talk about the typical municipality in Slovenia, you have reached the scale in Article 16, and if this simulation even exists, I would be interested to know what the sum of the money collected from the self-contribution, given the shortcomings already said, which are simply not in the law - or whether I am reading poorly or even not understand - are not included. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The debate of future debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Mr Ivan Mamič, then Mr Pavel Rupar and then Mr Aloise Sok, first applied for the debate. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We've heard the good and the bad, I wouldn't even replicate it, not support it. I will not say anything ideologically, I will only mention that the proposal is poorly prepared, that is the only comment, given what Mr Pucko has said. But I want something else. It seems to me that this marriage is completely lifeless. We can support him and do everything in our power, but I'm a skeptic that in practice any of this will come about because I speak from experience. For example, in my local community, we had a referendum last year on self-contribution. At 60 percent of the participation - we said, yes, the participation was good - was 80 percent for and the referendum failed. So it has to be high participation and it has to be so many people for and if it doesn't, then it's nothing. And we are living in such a time that people are also tired of elections and referendums and so on and simply do not participate, which means that such a referendum is already doomed to failure because it has to be for more than 50 percent of voters. So for these reasons, I am against such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, the law or bill that we have in consideration could simply be marked by the word 'nonsens'. So it's political nonsense. It's quite simple, why. Because it is written in a way that literally stimulates the congregations never to sign a referendum. I'll tell you why. So we were surprised by the very weighty and highly reasoned concerns, but we were pleased to hear from the speakers, Cyril Puck and colleagues of the coalition types. This law is very burdensome for each congregation to sign. See, one of the articles says that self - contribution is the income of the congregation. That's right. It is paid in cash and every municipality that signs such a self-contribution that collects money in the municipal budget risks financial compensation, i.e. the money it receives from the country. He raises more money on a self-supply, and more money is taken by the state to compensate him. So we're at a crucial point that excuses the word "nonsens" of this law. The law is extremely unstimulating because it gives people, those who have the right, tremendously many concerns, as it were, from the perspective of future employees, those who are yet to come to work. So everyone who finishes school, who sees their employment, and within five years of the entry into force of this law, has already been charged by the one who voted in the referendum without this concrete wish or not. So, it's a constitutional breach, in my opinion, you can't have anyone, or retroactively, it's very similar, putting anyone forward to what they don't agree with. Let's say he's under 15 years old, let's say when he was eighteen, then you put him on the payroll for two years without having the right to make that decision. There are also considerations in the case of unemployed persons receiving incomes or allowances from the country or social assistance. On the basis of this, for example, the referendum voted is also entitled to pay taxes or not, this does not appear in the law. Equally temporarily employed abroad, people who go abroad for a few years will come home with money, yet the congregation or those who contributed money will already be able to enjoy these investments without the person who returned from abroad paying a single tolar, but after all the regulations and laws, they will be able to enjoy the built - up investments. More questions. The law is unstimulating, that's what I said. It would be very good if we didn't vote to put him back in. In particular, in order to make it easier for people to decide on their own contributions, I do not know if the country is such a good mother to allow people half the grant for each investment or at the level of what they would raise themselves. This is stimulating, and this should be our country, as a stimulus to people, to start developing their places and environments, as well as to write somewhere. Personally, it seems to me that the law is to be rejected, and I myself will be very much against the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Vukko wishes to replicate the implementation of Mr. Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate to my colleague Rupar only in one part, in the part where he said that the money obtained at the self-supply had an impact on the calculation of the financial settlement. As far as I am aware, according to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, that municipality receiving financial compensation, and in so far as it introduces self-contribution, is then compensated as a result of this fact. So that's not why it's here. In each municipality, if the referendum decides to introduce a self-contribution for the construction of a municipal infrastructure, the municipality will not be penalized financially. Therefore, this claim is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thus, the Law on Community Financing speaks of sources of financing for municipalities. One of these sources is self-contribution. All resources are included in the mass as the income of the municipality. And it says here, "self-contribution is paid in cash." So it means that the congregation will have so much more budget at the end, and then it's also an impact on balancing. I say this, or else it would be right for you to say this clearly and loudly so as not to be misled. Because there's no way of knowing it from the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He also wants to discuss Mr Aloise Sok, and then we will probably get the Minister's explanations. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Rupar, my fellow Member has somehow overtaken me. I wanted to propose exactly what he ended up with. Thus, the law on self-contribution would have a deeper meaning if the State added something to those who contributed such money. At this point in time, as far as I have been monitoring these matters, even as the former president of the local community, I can say that we have actually collected local self-sustainment only in the Slovenian countryside. So, cities, if I am aware of such ways, or at least for Ljubljana or for Maribor, did not know such investment methods or at least in the last period. With these funds, we collected money for roads, money for schools, for a lot of other things, not least for Telekom, who would then own himself or own himself, and in this way the money of those people who paid their own salaries had either run away or gone into the pockets of Slovenian managers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that over 1 million Slovenians are still waiting for privatisation to be completed and this certificate gap to be perfected and something to be gained from this address. And all we can think about in this country is how we would burden them over and over again. And if, of course, we do not have money for more coherent regional development, then at least we offer them a law so that they can choose again and contribute themselves to their development. However, I think that Slovenians are no longer stupid enough to give themselves away in such a way, and that this law, which we are now wasting time with, is essentially a law that does nothing wrong, nothing "hassle". We can accept it, but I have been monitoring one year ago how many municipal self-sustainments have succeeded in our environment, in the last period more than none. This is not so, since most congregations have introduced building funds and have thus completely compensated for the loss of local or municipal self - contributions with some other resources. To those who say that we must adopt a law so that people can raise themselves for a purely specific purpose, it must be made clear that where they wanted to do so, they could already collect money by contract for a project and thus realize a common idea. For this reason, it seems to me that this marriage is bad, and it might really be worth considering if the country did not add something to the rural communities, where there is still such a desire for self-contribution. The case that was successful, for example, in one of our congregations, has been voted on purpose for primary school, and now it appears on the other hand that the Ministry of Education is delaying and somehow does not oppose its resources so that the funds they collect can be eloquent in some way. So, that would make sense, but about everything else, I agree with those who have spoken before me that this has survived the form of gathering, and I do not believe that this will come to life in general and that people will still be raising money in this way, especially if this is integrated into an integral budget, because it is always so that at least some of this money is lost and at least the part that represents additional costs to the municipalities will be lost. Surely, from this source, the congregations will cover at least those additional expenses and then pay back some back to those who collect in such a way. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The implementation of Mr Sok has led to two replicas, namely Mr Geza Juban first and then Mr Franci Rokavec, and Mr Franz Sušnik and Mr Franz Pukšič are waiting for the debate. Replica has Mr. Geza Juban first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. It seems important to me that this law is important, for various reasons, that in those environments where people are prepared, they are gathering funds in some known way, according to the rules of the game, which are uniform for the whole of Slovenia. It surprises me - for this reason, I repeat to my colleague Sok - that the political group which swears to be available to the people this time opposes the law that speaks precisely about it. We do not force anyone by this law to raise funds, simply allow them to do so or lay down the conditions under which these funds should be collected if people choose to do so - I underline if people choose to do so. However, I fully respect the critical comments made by fellow Members from any group who speak about the content of the law and speak of it as having to be completed in the process ahead of us, or as a step back possible, and to be completed in order to be applicable, operational and that the content should be such that it is actually available and, on the other hand, people's opportunities are used to raise funds for the purposes set out in the law. That's what I agree with. And it is unusual to oppose the solutions that many have advocated; also the mayors have had problems with the solutions that were before the time, regarding the majority needed. That's what you've been talking about, and I respect those warnings. 50 percent of those enrolled, then we have already condemned the law and the referendum in advance to failure if we do not change this provision. With regard to the warning given by Puck’s colleague, we have a strong agricultural component on the one hand, and the other part of the population employed abroad, which means that we will vote on our own contribution, but we will not raise any funds with it. Because it is simply a narrow part of the people who will contribute these funds and, of course, it is necessary to finalize the law in this sense. However, it would not suggest making this law a topic that would be misused for political purposes. I also have such experience that it is those who, before the vote at the referendum, should encourage people to vote in order to accept self-contribution for further purposes, to go from house to house, and to tell people how it is still the responsibility of this country to do so, and that this referendum is some kind of imagination of the mayor or the head of the local community. I don't think that's a good thing, and in order to make the law as it is in front of us, we need to make substantive arrangements for warnings about which speeches are made and not to abuse it for any other purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. To your performance, Mr. Sok, I'm sorry, you don't have a replica yet. Mr. Franci Rokavec, if I saw it correctly, then you will replicate. Only fellow Members of the Council, if I understand correctly, is the proposal of the President of the Labour Council and the Minister in this regard to today's general discussion and, if you review it in the report, is in line with almost the same comments as in the plenary session today, to prepare amendments to be addressed by the Government and also by the mother's labour body will be redefined and a brief consideration of individual solutions will be taken again at this July session, and this part of the general discussion will nevertheless be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order to set direction and identify ourselves to the Government's proposal in terms of its solutions and the comprehensive objectives that the Government represents here. So that we have this in front of us, that after the general discussion we will interrupt and we will see the solutions that the Committee has also imposed on the government and are in fact the same as we are repeating here today, but we will meet again at this assembly. Thank you very much. He now has a replica of Mr Franci Rokavec and then Mr Sok to implement Mr Geza Juban. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. It will be a brief replica, but in that sense, when Comrade Sok said that the contributions survived the form. I don't mind if the self-contribution was formed in the past period. I know that ways have been developed for a certain collection of contributions for each school or school, or whatever, the institution, before, even before World War II, and there will probably be such ways of gathering where interest will be shown, even in the future. As far as this is concerned, probably where the interest of people in a particular area is so strong, the role of the State is very important that this self-sustainment in some way would allow it to be stimulating, and on the other hand, that the provisions of the law on self-sustainment would also be so flexible that in some way this instrument could be used by people in a particular area to improve their living conditions. I think it's one of the basic tasks. I agree, however, that this law is somehow given an opinion and judged by the congregations. In fact, I think that the form of some fund-raising, let's say self-contribution or whatever, will probably always be necessary in certain areas. It would therefore be necessary, in my opinion, for a country at the legal level to allow, in particular, such a law that will encourage and reward the people who will decide on this way of raising funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Now he's got a replica of Mr. Sušnik, I think you've come to the debate? [[...]] Yeah, it's your turn. Replica, Mr. Sok, for the execution of Mr. Gez Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	I just want two sentences. Our parliamentary group simply said that such a form of gathering had survived the form. We could, of course, agree on some act of self-contribution, but not as it is written here. And I didn't even object to it myself. Sure, I'm up for it. If people make up their minds, let them contribute. So, I've been thinking for myself that a law like this, it doesn't hurt, it doesn't "put it out" because people just won't vote for self-contributions anymore. Why not? Because these self-sustainment programmes have not been implemented in the past. I know. Those who are supposed to come in for the fourth or fifth year with their own road in turn have simply lost. So personally, I will never support any self-contribution ever again. But I signed it myself, and I can say two very specific contracts. So it can also be collected in a different way, not just with self-contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debates, Mr Rokavec, allow only an explanation. The mother’s working body adopted a decision and gave the municipalities a three-week opportunity to speak on a proposal for a law. We received 11 opinions from the congregations during this time frame, so that the congregations had the opportunity. Let's move on to the debates. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, first of all. It shows up again, and I don't know why, and in this law, I don't think there was any need for it, so I'm gonna say arrogant by the quick procedure. Article 201 states: "When this requires the extraordinary needs of the State or the interests of defence or of natural disasters, it is possible to adopt law in a swift manner." President, explain to me the extraordinary needs of the state, the interests of defence or of natural disasters. It's not your duty. This is the duty of the bill-maker, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, 'the proposal must be specifically explained by the bill-maker'. Well, it's not like that either. The Constitutional Court repealed the law on self-contribution in 1999. It's just a problem. In this national assembly we cannot do anything normal, by normal procedure, and, of course, on the issue that is being opened and which I am also thinking of talking about in this law, we can discuss thoroughly, draw up a consistent law that would then have a tail and head. But I'm afraid that's not going to work. And it seems to me that it is easy to discuss this in an almost meaningless way, because even then no substantive debate is taken into account and it is arrogant and then the opposition is left with no alternative but to go to the referendum and then the people say that the matter has been transported. Now a few words about the law. Look, personally, I don't mind if we have one law in a country that will primarily talk about faster infrastructure development in an area or a superstandard. Of course, if, through self-contribution, as we have done so far, we will also raise funds to a large extent in the demographicly threatened areas so that we will also have the share that we can then parise with or with this share plus the resources from the budget to apply for the country's diversity so that we can provide our 60, 70, 80%, just as much as needed. This is the wrong way to develop demographics or demographically endangered areas. For one simple reason. In these areas, these people pay completely all taxes as in normal settlements. And a second time. Why should those with fewer or less self-sustainment still have to provide what we call basic infrastructure or what the congregation establishes, for example. investment in education and so on. That's easy. There could be some way to raise money for a superstandard, what I know, if it's superstandard, say if it's still today, make an installation for a cable. Of course, I'm not just talking about the 30 or 40 TV programs here, but the infrastructure that you get with this -- the "on line" connection, say, to the Internet, and the price that is, like, lower than normal, through phone impulses and so on. But let's say that this could be for faster development of a piece of infrastructure, like sewerage. We know that this is insanely expensive, and the country will, for example, under some programme, the development programme, through the law on coherent regional development, paralyse and will say, okay, in this area we will co-finance annually - which has not yet happened, of course, and I am afraid that it will not be on the proposal of these two budgets, because unfortunately, as is being served now, it is better that, I do not know, outside of Ljubljana, we close the "stacks". But let's say that it would be what would be fine, I don't know, so much and so much, two, three kilometers on so many people, we'll co-finance sewerage, but if you want more, it's another way. And if you want more, okay, it's another way to raise funds, but that's why you'll also get some encouragement, as some have already said. So in the first place it would be good - although I don't know how it goes procedurally, those who master it - to change this flow - because we have adopted a rapid procedure - to change this flow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Mr. Pukšič, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	from quick to regular procedure, and of course it would be better to prepare legislation in this way. [[...]] It's different. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich, I think you've been pushing it for over 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Let me finish with the thought, because if you don't, you know, there are procedural options - I'm going to replicate, and I don't want to - so let me finish the sentence. In any case, this law is a remarriage or, if you want, a poverty tax, and I do not want to take part in it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	And I would like this matter to change. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Mr Leo Kremjar has the floor first and then Mr Franz Sušnik. I apologize to the debaters, Mr Geza Juban wishes to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you. Very brief replica of my colleague Pukšič. As mayor, I would expect you, Comrade Pukšič, to help shape this law, which I find that both of you would agree that it would in some way be necessary, because you also used it in your mayoral function. And we don't say anywhere in this marriage that people have to -- which has been repeated several times -- if they want to, they don't have to. And in the second part, when it is said that those who have little and have poverty have much to contribute. That is not true, they will contribute little or nothing, even under this law, if we do not make a substantive change. Earlier in the simulation of colleague Puck, we found that some would not have been captured and would not have contributed anything that I might even agree with. Let us try to discuss and critically look at the law as it really is, and not talk about things that are not in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Well, the replica, so in that sense; at the very beginning I spent regrettably, two minutes talking about procedure. Of course, we want to co-form this law and normally, in a regular procedure this is completely different, because there is no extraordinary need, no state of war and no natural disaster, although since 1999, we know that it is necessary to do so. And that's the first part of my contribution. The second part of my contribution, when I talked about co-forming this law, is about what I was talking about, whether infrastructure is faster than it is in the plan, i.e. in the state plan, in the government plan. If this government were to comply with the law on coherent regional development adopted in the previous mandate, it should be in the budget of around 1 per cent of GDP for this demographic development in accordance with this law this year. In the budget we have warned the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia about this, we have pointed out this, through questions sent, absolutely nothing has happened, of course we have data from the Ministry, because we have not invented them, they have given them to us. Oh, 25 percent of GDP is meant for that. And what really happened to this law on coherent regional development? The law is on paper, of course, some laugh at it because they are "fucking" for demographically endangered areas and are "fucking" whether the legislation is respected or not. But of course we would like to help and co-form and I also said in my work, in such a way that we would then have some smart marriage that would, of course, contribute to the development of this Slovenian specialty, that is, our demographic inequality, certainly. If that's possible, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. At the execution of Mr. Juban, Mr. Rupar wishes to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you. In explanation to my colleague Juban - we will not say we are fighting, but we are trying to make such a law in Slovenia not at all, without shaping it so that the contributions are even possible, but to look around Europe where the contributions are not known. The point is, it wouldn't even be in the procedure. Why? Look, today we're in the age of property, private property. Today, water, electricity, telephony, I don't know what else to do, build with equity and those who want to contribute as mandatory here, under the law on self-contribution, to contribute and benefit from it. Look, today we're going to build, for example, a pipeline with a self-contribution that's going to work on the basis of this law. This pipeline will benefit generations and generations after those who have paid this contribution, but we do not give them the right to be shareholders of this pipeline, for example. Because that's what the law says. Shareholdership and property are not here, and it is such a law as it is, is meaningless, let's step up with Europe and rather define ourselves for other things. I'll tell you what. Look. The law speaks of education, education and health care. Yes, people, listen, these are the affairs and tasks of the ministries, the tasks of the state budget, not the task of self-contribution and people. We can continue to find that property today is only number one in Europe, in the world and everywhere. We don't define property here in self-contribution. In fact, people give this money to someone who owns it, in this case say the congregation or the state, and it is not fair, nor to those who will pay for it, even less if I take the assumption that this benefit can be enjoyed by even generations after those who will not pay a single tolar. So our efforts go in the direction of not even giving people any additional burden, even if we want them to become co-owners of individual So, I want to say that we should adopt laws where people should be given the opportunity to be co-owners of infrastructure, even state-owned, even municipal, but not "writing me in" after they give money, but they can be wiped out under their noses. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. So, it's two debaters' turn. Mr. Leopold Kremjar first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. It's not the state's distress. It's the people's hardship. That's the first fact. The second fact - this law in fact, as has already been said several times, regulates the rules of the game and nothing else, does not mean that someone has to do something, but regulates the rules of the game, how a matter should happen if people want and if they want to improve their standard of living, either because money for all that they need is not enough, or because they want something extra if we talk about superstandard. What's the rush? Again, I think that it is not for the interests of the state in this case, but for the interests of the citizens. In fact, at this point, of course, we do not have the legal basis for introducing self-contribution anywhere. The need, the desire of people in some places, of course, is such that they want to do so. I don't see any reason for us to keep thinking about just how to limit people and that's why this law also sets fair game rules and then people in these fair rules decide whether they want such or otherwise self-contribution, whether they want self-contribution and basic infrastructure, or whether they want to, I don't know, pools and I don't know what. The decision must be made by people, and that is the essence of the whole story of self-contribution. The essence of the story is that people decide for themselves what they will give money for and how much they will give money and how much they will pay. And in the final stage, not that they're going to donate to anyone, but that's a common good. They decide to use something together. This is the essence of self-contribution and this is the essence of all the objects that we've gotten through all the years of self-contribution. I'd probably be able to find out one review and quickly figure out how many hospitals, how many schools, how many kindergartens, and so on, not to mention first, would not be built if there were no self-contribution. Whether it was properly distributed is another question and another story. But they did and people did it voluntarily. Just a few more thoughts on the definitions that are proposed. Otherwise, about the issues that Pucko was talking about, I also told the committee in the first debate that I think it would be more correct and fair to think about the way it has been so far. That is, a certain percentage and everyone, as far as income from that percentage, participates and pays. This is the most, I would say even, even and fair distribution, and by searching for some scales we will never come to perfect equality, and to that, I think this is the most solidarity of all. And just one more thing. If we are to lay down rules that are realistic, let us also give serious thought to the majority to accept this matter. I personally think that 50% of all electoral beneficiaries are too many because this is one restriction that will certainly not lead, or in very rare cases, to a self-sustainment vote, because it is simply, it is technically and mathematically almost impossible, as someone has already said some case that occurred in some participation, let's say 60.70%, almost 90% of all should be for. That's very difficult. Of course, there are arguments for another, that the great majority should say 50, and at least one among all those who will pay for it. That's one argument. However, I think that we could date, at least I could date without problem with such a self-contribution, where at most of those present at the polling station most of those who decided to go to the electorate voted a referendum I think we can talk more about specific matters in individual articles, in amendments and in principle so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The execution of Mr Kremjar has triggered four replicas. First Mr Sugar, then Mr Pukšič, Mr Pucko and Mr Kelemina. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Respectable. For the third time, I have heard an idea, an idea, an explanation that is or will be harmful to further discussion if it repeats itself, so I am calling. It is an explanation that this is actually about allowing for the free choice of citizens, voters and so on. That's what they say, because it's not legal for it to be a referendum, but if they want it, they'll have it and they'll decide on their own contribution. I'm just saying that we don't need a law on this kind of voluntary assembly. People of one street, of one place, can agree and will agree - unanimously! - raise funds as they will, and they will co-owners of what they will build; three can agree to pave the yard together and so forth. These things are open, respectable interlocutors. This is about something else. This is about whether a group of voters can order against others, but now you're going to raise money and direct it, and you're not going to co-owner those objects. That's what this is about! We are here to legalize some relationship between some electorate and others who are against it, and this requires a law. Therefore, do not talk about freedom of choice - it is about laying down rules of the game so that a group can impose obligations on others who are against it. That's the first one. Then there is one of the most controversial of these here, which I would repeat, in Article 5, so that it does not acquire ownership rights on the building. And it has only been warned once - it is likely to be repeated - that the infrastructure is looking for the owner and the owner is registered and that the infrastructure that does not have the owner will find it. So again, the referendum will decide that those against such a way will also have to raise funds for another owner. Ladies and gentlemen, these are very delicate matters, and I think that thinking in your direction, that even this 50% of all voting beneficiaries is too much, seems very unfair to me in today's democratic thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has a replica of Mr. Puksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	I'd like to replicate Mr. Kremjar's performance. Yes, Mr Kremjar, we agree in the part where you were talking about superstandard. However, we do not agree, of course, in the part where you were talking about basic infrastructure or that part about this self-contribution, I do not agree with what is said in Article 5. Regarding the second part that Dr. Cuckoo warned about, well, look, what you said is really a lot of schools, health homes, and it was built, and it wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for self-contribution. But there is also something else, Mr Kremjar - many other buildings have been built; on whose account they have become great owners today, they have big incomes, they have big salaries and I don't know what else. At the expense of over 70,000 people in the former municipality of Ptuj, Ptujke spas - with self-contribution were built. Today, Mr Kremjar, all 15 municipalities have been suing a combination for five or six years; in this capable system of justice, of course, it will be nothing anyway. If there is any interest, otherwise, legislation will change when it all wears off, just as it did in 1994, when the place of social property was "on the tip" and, unfortunately, it happened. I speak, of course, from the data I have as President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry and I know what was going on. So what was warned is, of course, necessary - and it is possible to change - a lot of things to complete and it needs to be completed; but, of course, only if you have this option - and this is, in my opinion, if we have a normal procedure. I think after the first reading we can even turn this speedy into a regular procedure. Secondly, for example, what should be noted: Article 10 states that the electoral directory of voting beneficiaries shall be drawn up by the municipal administration on the basis of data obtained, etc. You know, some information needs to be obtained by the tax administration. If this is not recorded in the law, where this information is obtained from, then it will also be a problem to obtain it. There are many such problematic issues that need to be resolved. Mr Kremjar, I certainly did not and will not agree with you that a rapid procedure is needed because of the citizens. Since 1999, the law has been repealed, and the speedy process is needed because of the very bad government that rules this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Pucko. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. My friend Kremjar encouraged me to take a call. It's not really a replica, but something I forgot to say in my debate and I think it's still important. In Slovenia, certain municipalities in the past 20, 25 years, have built a series of buildings whose values the country has never recognised. Because, to be fair, the government, when proposing this law, should at the same time provide a balance sheet to build so many and so many buildings in Slovenia over the past 20 or 25 years, when a degree of development is calculated. This would be the only correct and fair thing to do, and then we could talk about the honesty and solidarity that goes through this whole law. Therefore, I think it would be necessary for us to get at least minimum information on how good the municipalities, which have now been because they were good at the time, have voted so many times in the autumn, are now being punished because they cannot obtain the funding for the co-financing of the facilities listed in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Well, I'd just like to warn you that in this case, there's talk of a law on self-contribution and not a referendum -- all those who just talk about this referendum and people's will and don't know what. We are talking about the law on self-contribution, which, of course, is conditional on the referendum, by a decision at the referendum. So that's the basic thing. I would only tell Mr Kremjar so much that, in my opinion, we must at least begin to understand in all respects the modern way of organising our society. Well, we don't have, as far as I know, social property, and we won't take on social property anymore. The referendums of the previous - I think - and the previous self-contributions of the previous period were somehow for the building of some common good, some common social property and since you are no longer there is no easy basis for such projects to be financed in some way. It is known exactly who owns, who is responsible for these things, who has to regulate them, and I think that these are fundamental decisions or fundamental definitions to the fact that they are investments, is true through self-contribution - otherwise I do not oppose it, but through self-contribution somehow the fruit of some post-socialist system and that in this new society it has nothing to look for, even though I will not object to it if you want to accept it, to be accepted. But I think it's a survival system and it doesn't belong today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I think we have two more replicas. First Mr. Kremjar, then Mr. Pukšič. And Mr. Franz Sušnik is waiting for a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	I'm replicating because I have to. Look, my wish wasn't, of course, to challenge so many replicas. I'm also on average very socially educated, so these things around property and this, they taught me at school, and there's something I've even been able to remember. That's it. But no matter what, it's a good purpose. Thank you, too, for the instructions you just gave me. It's not the same story. We all know what time we live in, and we all know, of course, what property is, how this property is distributed, how it is defined, how we do not have social property and so on. It's pointless to talk about it. I wasn't talking about these things either. That's not what this is about! It's just something. And I'm just gonna say it again, and that's the answer to everything you're talking about. People want something and let's give people a chance to do it if they want to. And if people want to say that it is common property, because it is transferred to the congregation in this case, and that they will enjoy it together, because the congregation will not enjoy it, because it will not be the congregation’s world and I do not know who, but the people who live there. We also have plumbing and public lighting, and I don't know what property is in the municipality, municipal property, and there's no equity in it, and there's nothing; and people use it well, and thank God that they have and need it. Let's get these property issues straight. Rape: There is always someone on the other side of the story when there is a majority. If we prescribe a 90- or 99% majority that has to take something, we still have 1 percent left. Only 100 percent, if you write it down, of course, which would make perfect sense, to write these things down. Just one more little thing, Mr. Cuckoo! Even this way, I fully agree with you. They can agree in one hour, and from house to house, someone goes and builds something: a common, legitimate and fair and proper. I support that, too. But there are bigger objects in places when that's not the way it works. And if they decide somewhere - I don't know, I'm going to give an example that they want to build a pool that I've already mentioned, then it's probably not possible to walk on so many and so many streets, so many and so many houses, and yet someone has to somehow get to this majority consensus - whatever it is - people want to do it and then they say to themselves, "I'm going to go around the thing, I'm going to give 2 or 3% of my salary for us all to use something." This is the point of this story; not for retreating, not for returning to social property. This really isn't in any way connected to this. This is a matter - now either Europe has or does not have, it is not essential at this time; it is essential, at least in my opinion, that people want something to give. I am prepared, of course, to give them this with great joy, to help them give it to them. And this law lays the groundwork for it alone - nothing else. That seems important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič has a replica, then Mr Tsukjati and Mr Gasparini. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I agree with a considerable part of what Mr Kremjar has been talking about. Of course, I had no intention of teaching you, and if you so understand, I apologize deeply. But I'd love to think that way when we adopt legislation that's just happening here. Among other things, when we passed the ownership law on telecommunications, of course you did not think so. Telecommunications, as Pucka said before, have also been built up and increased in the value of these telecommunications in the account and in the self-contributions they have made and paid. Well, I come from a congregation where we paid for our own contribution for 30 years. Of course, I do not agree with the introduction of self-contribution under Article No. 1, which says that the municipalities will be able to establish and reconstruct public municipal infrastructures, and so on, to that extent, for the first time, to the extent that you say it is municipal. Yeah, they're citizens, they're people who live there. But the phone was also social until the day you wanted to own it. But when you want to own a water pipe, then whoever paid for it through self-contribution has the right to own it with their share. Admit it. And this 5th article, of course, does not say. Secondly, I do not agree with Article 1 on self-contribution because, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to know that it will be necessary to make a law on the financing of municipalities so that the municipalities can develop evenly in accordance with the law on consistent regional development - which you have not read - in this country. But if that's not what you want, then you have to say it. However, through this act on self-contribution, you cannot make up for what is not respected in the law on coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, here you go, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	See, when it comes to self-contribution, Mr. Kremjar, it is the introduction of a public tax on the basis of municipal law, it is the introduction of a tax - tax! And it bothers me that you somehow don't understand these points, or at least you don't understand - that, in fact, for the construction of standard local infrastructure, what we are already paying taxes for, the municipality now has the right to prescribe some additional taxes under this law. This is a public duty, which is, of course, adopted on the basis of the municipal regulation, on the basis of a referendum, a referendum result. As for the pool, under normal conditions, not in those conditions 20 years ago, of course the pool is built with shares, bonds or other ways. I think it will have to be considered in general here, whether the municipality should prescribe additional taxes for the construction of that standard infrastructure, which, in fact, must draw resources from all taxes, including my income, from all taxes which are known and which have been adopted in the legislation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The final replica, Mr Gasparini, is then debated by Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Cukjat, I think the congregation has the right, you know, but here's the question whether the state has the right to prescribe you what you're going to pay. If this is a pool in a congregation, it is a matter of the congregation. And now, in the end, we prescribe what is going to happen in the congregation, I don't know, in Maribor or in Isola, who is going to pay those and that kind of income. I don't think that's right. The community is the one who should say - if we already build a pool, then the contribution is for those who are going to approach it, so much and so. After all, I stopped by because I don't see the point of self-contribution at all. And I agree with Dr. Cuckati, not because he's a doctor, but I think it's a little too much to prescribe these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Honorable Presidential and Honourable Assembly! Look, today has been a great time to feel that people want to, they want to be able to. Look, I think it's pure hypocrisy. Show me a man who wanted or wanted to introduce a self-contribution he wanted to attribute to himself an additional financial obligation - he's not. People have been forced to dig themselves out of the mud to make up for the indevelopment, not least to correct the defect in the use of public funds that has been generated so far. Re-implementing such a compulsion for matters such as the first article of the draft law on basic public infrastructure is totally wrong with all normal human standards. Look. People have voted for self - contributions or are still forced to think about self - contributions today because they are forced to do so, not because they want to do so because they do not see any way out. Finally, they are also on their way to this point - this is what I would like to hear from the minister where any legal basis is that self-supply-supported investments have the advantage of co-financing ministries. Secondly, I think that the main reason why people still think of self-sustainment as an emergency exit is that Slovenia devotes significantly too little gross social product to local communities. That's what I had to hear when European parliamentarians were here. I would now also like to ask the Minister what this share is and what it should be like to be comparable in this area. There were two questions: what share we are giving for local self-government and what it should be like to be European comparable. Another issue was where any legal basis for self-sustainment-supported investments was the advantage of co-financing by ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, a few questions have arisen. Do you want to answer? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. As regards the issue of the financing of local self-government or its participation in a social product, the precise conclusion of the colleague who last discussed is that Slovenia is far below the European average. Now I remember the data, Finland has even 70% of the social product, or 70% of the public spending at local level, but this is also related to its organisation of power, which is quite decentralised. Thus, sometimes it is not possible to compare European countries because they have very different forms, including the development of local self-government from municipal to provincial. But it is undeniable that what you see as Slovenia is far below the European average as regards the financing of local self-government. But I think that linking this issue with financing local self-government is, in fact, in some ways inappropriate or not the same problem. The law on self-contribution should not be linked to any state policy in the area of financing local self-government. It is essentially an additional option that is created for the part of citizens and citizens who are able to agree on this in the majority of the municipalities. I would like to make it clear that this dedicated source of funding, as expressed by law, has no impact on the financial compensation of the municipalities. This is a guarantee - this is the position we have already heard here in the debate - this is also a guarantee on behalf of the proposer, which I consulted with the Ministry of Finance, which participated in the drafting of this law. By linking this now with the worse situation of those congregations that would introduce self - sacrifice will not hold. Article 13 speaks of self - contributions as the dedicated income of the congregation. It shall also be recorded through the specific cost-of-town or the establishment of a specific budget fund. In short, it is not a matter of simply transferring these funds to the revenue of the municipalities, which has been deducted from the financial compensation. This is simply not true and I would like to encourage you to be more inclined to do so. There's this at the principal level. In fact, it is a matter of whether we can - it is now, I think, 13 or 15 initiatives of different municipalities in Slovenia that cannot be realized because a legal void arose in 1999. So, we have no law and they have projects and they want to carry them out, and in the way that there is a lot of tradition in Slovenia; in the way of the majority referendum decision according to the purpose that the law specifically defines - that is, the concept of this law - these municipalities cannot implement these projects. Although the mayors or municipal authorities feel that it is possible to obtain such a majority decision in their area, which would further train and develop the municipalities by means of such funds. Because of the possibility of justice, I think, because of the freedom of these congregations or of the people in these congregations, it makes sense to establish a marriage foundation. Therefore, the principle of opposition to this and the integration of this with, I do not know, the obligation of the State to the municipalities or to regional development and so on is fundamentally incorrect. In fact, this is not about replacing the country's other obligations. This is not about replacing or even evading the State under an obligation to finance municipalities. It is a possibility that the state with the legal system establishes where it wants to decide - but I said: 15 such projects we know, at the Ministry of the Interior, that there are those that cannot be realized at this time. It's about setting up, basically, a legal basis for it. As regards the debate on the creation of a compulsion here for people who do not want to do so and that people a priori do not want to do so, by definition and for the introduction of public benefits. This is not about-at least the debaters you know this very well - however, it will be quite clear; it is precisely about the public tax, it is about the tax. But this tax is not imposed by the decision of the congregation, but by the decision of the people. In fact, it is a question of what this decision should be. And here, I think it's very sensitive to think about what this decision should be. We offer this stricter majority than what is in the law on local self-government. It provides that the majority decision is that of all those who have taken part in the vote. This could theoretically mean that 5 percent of them are voted by the majority, which is slightly over 2.5 percent, and all others commit to the remaining 95 percent. This is certainly undemocratic. And that is why we have defined ourselves here as a fairly strict majority, that is, for most of those who are elected beneficiaries in this area and will become debtors. In short, it is a model of an absolute majority, which we think is democratic enough to vote on a public charge, which then obliges others, which is in the common interest, just as most find. In particular, I would like to point out, although it is clear to the discussers who raised this issue that this is a tax rather than a share financing issue and that there is no need to establish legal conditions for public financing of public infrastructure at the municipal level. Where they want to, where there is an entrepreneurial interest or any other interest, they can do so there, the law on it exists, the share financing has its legal basis in the company law, a share company or a limited liability company may be established and there are no obstacles to it. Where there is political maturity or the entrepreneurial willingness of a certain number of people to share financing of municipal infrastructure - there are no obstacles to this in the Slovenian legal system. However, in the Slovenian legal system, this moment after the Constitutional Court's decision, there is an obstacle to financing municipal infrastructure on the basis of self-contribution, which is one of the traditions that has been adopted in many ways, and I repeat, a large number of such initiatives are still ongoing. By the way, I would like to mention or merely affirm to what has been said, we have no negative opinion, no principled opposition from 190 congregations, as to whether it makes sense to pass such a law or not. For three weeks, on the basis of a decision taken by the National Assembly, this law was discussed in all congregations. We have received a good number of comments, improvements to this text. By the way, let me mention that the Government has already prepared amendments and that a correspondence meeting is currently under way, which will take into account, to a certain extent, the amendments, as well as the comments we have heard here, which are focused mainly on the conduct of uncertainties or the improvement of texts. The fact is, the congregations have responded sufficiently. All of this shows that there is an interest in the municipalities that this possibility of funding will also be harnessed in Slovenia. I repeat that this is an option; and when we talk about options, additional rights and additional bases in the legal system, it is also a conceptual question whether it is only a possibility to limit this to what some discussers have called a superstandard, or to leave a completely free decision on any investment in this area. This is a conceptual question, and we, as proponents, have put ourselves on, as we would say, the principle of freedom - let those who have this initiative decide what is most critical for the community; whether this is part of those issues that the congregation should otherwise provide under the law on local self-government, or not, is irrelevant. It may be that what they have decided to do that will not be possible to obtain it either from subsidies for faster regional development or from other means of development of the municipality. This is the responsibility of impressing those who run the congregation, and of course also the ability to animate people in their area for such projects. Why, then, in principle limit this only to certain projects or to those that are superstandards. Such a view is, of course, based on the integration of this law with the public financial obligations of the State towards the municipalities. I don't think there should simply be a basis for this connection or some way of deceiving it. I would like to say just a few more comments on the scale or some other technical issues. The scale is one of the questions which has been very largely answered in the debates in the municipalities and will be changed in terms of the amendment of the government. As for farmers, or what has been explicitly exposed here, some of the debtors, the unemployed, in our opinion - we will examine this professionally - the farmer is included in the formulation of a natural person who has a permanent residence, whether he is an employee or a farmer, or any other resident, and the farmers are included: either on this criterion or on the basis of the property criterion. However, in the case of the unemployed, in our opinion, they are excluded from this through the formulation that the debtors are not persons who have no income taxable under the Income Act. In short, I thank you for the very engaged debate, which is also conceptual, and in particular for the part of the comments aimed at improving the text. We insist that it is possible for certain precisions to be carried out, which, as I say, has also been pointed out by the debate in the congregations. And I announce at least five, six government amendments to this text. It would therefore be extremely useful to adopt what the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy has proposed and perhaps to continue the debate after the Committee has adopted its views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members and honourable Members, you have on your hands a proposal for a decision that is, in fact, a summary of what we are during the debate - also on the proposal of the President of the working body and also on the recommendation of the Minister. It is said that now that we have concluded the general debate, it is the proposal of the LDS Group that after a general discussion, the proposal for a self-contribution law should be discontinued until the definition of the labour force to the amendments tabled and to the opinions of local communities obtained under Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government. I shall put the motion for a procedural decision to the honourable assembly for a vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that it is a procedural proposal to suspend the treatment of the 43rd item of the agenda until the definition of the parent working body, that is, the Internal Policy Committee, and then, in the context of the rapid procedure with the second reading, we continue to proceed once the parent working body has prepared a report for us. I thank the Minister for his cooperation. We're moving to 45. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON LEGISLATIVE RELATIONSHIP AND ASSOCIATION - SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Dear Members and Members, President! The Marriage and Family Relations Act governs the marriage, parent-child relations and other relatives, adoption, foster care and protection of minors and other persons unable to take care of themselves, for their rights and benefits. Article 78 provides that when a court divorces a marriage which is uncontrolled for any reason, it shall also decide on the protection, upbringing and survival of joint children. Article 105 of the Act provides that if parents do not live together, they must agree on which of them the child will live. If the parents don't agree, it's up to the social work centre. In the Constitutional Court’s constitutionality assessment procedure initiated by the Supreme Court’s request and in the procedure for the examination of the initiative of Matjaž Gerlance of Velenje, the Constitutional Court decided that it was not in accordance with the Constitution that the decision on the protection and upbringing of children in Article 105 of the Law on Legal Relations and Family Relations provided for the competence of the centre for social work and that the jurisdiction of the court was laid down in Article 78 of the same law. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to remove the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision of the Constitutional Court is published in Official Journal No 60 of 29 July 1999. The first objective of the law is therefore to enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision to establish that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, that the decision on the protection and upbringing of children in Article 105 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations lays down the competence of the Centre for Social Work and Article 78 of the jurisdiction of the Court. The second objective of the law is to bring the terminological system into line with the new state regime and the legal order. The national assembly should remove the non-compliance referred to in point 1 within 1 year of publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to explain the individual articles. Articles 1 and 2 constitute a terminology harmonisation of the individual terms given that the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is from 1977 and a new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted at that time, the self-government interest communities have been abolished, the Republic's administrative authorities have become ministries and so on. In Article 3, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to supplement the law with a new article where we have regulated public finances. The costs related to the process of marriage are covered by the State budget, which is not provided for by the law in force, and therefore the legal basis for financing this work should be provided. Article 4(4) The proposer in this article proposes that the second paragraph of Article 105 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations should be amended to read: "If the parents do not agree, the court shall decide on this." Such a proposal removes the finding of non-constitutionality that the decision on the protection and upbringing of children in Article 105 lays down the competence of the Centre for Social Work and provides for the jurisdiction of the court in Article 78 of the same law. In the event of a dispute, the court will also, as has already been done in accordance with Article 78, decide on the matters referred to in Article 105. Article 5(5) This provision has the nature of transitional provisions since it provides that the Minister responsible for the family shall, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the administration, issue an implementing regulation within six months of the law being enforced. Article 6 deals with the issue of official premises. 7. Article 7, this provision has the character of a transitional provision and defines the resolution of matters under Article 105 of the Law on Legal Relations. Article 8 provides for the time when the law will enter into force. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes the adoption of legislation following a reduced procedure, because it considers that it is a matter of amending the law with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court and other less extensive and less difficult amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. President, Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. At its 7th meeting, the Committee considered a proposal for a law. Members were given a similar introductory explanation of the law, as you had just heard. On the basis of the written opinion of the secretariat and the additional oral opinion, the Committee, of course, held back slightly more. The Secretariat notes that the reasons given for examining the law under Rule 204a of the Rules of Procedure are reduced. The Secretariat, however, refers specifically to Article 4 of the proposed amendment to Article 105 of the applicable law to the part of the draft law, which is linked to the reason for the harmonisation of the law with the decision of the Constitutional Court. It considers that the question of the adequacy of the scope of the amendments should be re-examined, which is more precisely reflected in the comment to Article 4. The Secretariat has drawn up specific comments on Articles 1 and 4 of the draft law. In the context of its comments to Article 1, it points to non-compliance by laying down a proposal with the law on administration, which provides for the issuance of regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry. Article 4 also points to the maintenance of the regime in Article 106, paragraph 1, which, at the same time as Article 105, is contradictory in its view. It points out in particular that the reduced procedure does not, however, prejudice other articles of the basic law. On the basis of the comments made by the members and members of the Committee, and of course by the Secretariat, the representative of the proposers, Mrs State Secretary, explained the content covered by Article 106 of the basic law in the case of Article 105, which is also the subject of the Constitutional Court’s judgment. On the basis of the explanation provided, the Committee then also adopted a decision to agree to the consideration of the law by means of a reduced procedure. Furthermore, the Committee also discussed individual articles and did not support the amendment to Article 1 of the drafters, Mr Tsukjati and Mr Drobnic. It has, however, drafted its amendments, by which it has also addressed to some extent the reasoned comments on the shortcomings in the draft law by the secretariat, namely the five amendments to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 5. The Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes that the Council adopt the law, together with the amendments of the Committee, following a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr France Tsukati will be presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Good-bye. Our Group believes that it is time for the Constitutional Court's demands to be incorporated into the amendment of the law. However, our Group of Members had some comments. I would only mention two - even now, so that we do not talk too much about these things again - first of all, to Article 1 of the amendment, to Article 4 of the Act. Indeed, Article 200 of the Criminal Code states that, in fact, it is malicious to prevent the exercise of the rights of a minor is a criminal offence. But we see in life, many times you too, that in fact these children's rights to contact their parents are repeatedly violated in the case of divorced laws. And not only that, but also contacts with sisters, half-sisters, half-brothers, with old parents and so on, which does not work for the child and his development. The Ombudsman also cited in the 2000 report, which you have already received, some almost traumatic cases where a divorced mother, with all possible means of the year and years, prevented a child from contacting his father. There is no appropriate mechanism in law to take the provision of Article 200 of the Criminal Code into account in such cases. This is why we propose, despite the fact that the parent working body of the amendment has not supported it, and to support the first amendment in the review of the amendments, namely the amendment that it is the right and benefit of the child to have personal contact with both parents, with his brothers, sisters, half-brothers and half-sisters, and with old parents. Then another question was raised from our side, Article 139, where some of the minimum conditions were to be met by the candidate for adoption. In other words, the previous doctrine was inappropriate. In fact, in the previous dictatorship, it was suggested that a person who did not guarantee that he would be brought up as a working member of the socialist self-government community should be deleted. However, we believe that the content of this indent is still deeper and is not sufficient to delete it, it needs to be replaced. The amendment was proposed to be replaced by the dictatorship referred to in Article 4, which is paragraph 5. In fact, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy proposed the same materially, so that, in fact, which amendment you support, we would like to see at least one of these two important. Otherwise, we support the law and believe that it can be followed by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	First of all, a nice greeting to fellow Members, as well as representatives or representatives of the government! I'll be very brief. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of the law on marriage and family relations. We also support the reduced procedure, as this imposes both a constitutional decision and the very terminology of the law, which is very outdated. At the same time, we support those provisions relating to the regulation of the matrimonial procedure in order to regulate the normalisation of this and the dignity of the procedure. Most therefore relate and the main weight is given to the change in decision-making on the protection and upbringing of children, which is the basis of a constitutional decision, because, according to the old ones - this has been done for a number of years - it has not sufficiently ensured the guarantee procedure and the debate principle has not been properly followed, since the centre for social work has emerged as a judge, while also carrying out certain obligations to raise and protect or exercise the right to raise and protect children or to exercise parental rights. I would also like to take this opportunity, although my colleague, Mr Cukjat, from the Social Democratic Party, has already explained in relation to the implementation of the children's benefits when this marriage breaks down. This initiative, these amendments are mainly submitted under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and on the Enforcement of Parenthood. That, I think we need to secure. This does not burden the budget, but has a great impact on the growth and development of the child, as well as on the interaction between ex-wives and parents. In short, we also support the reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Members and Members shall have the floor. There were no written submissions to the debate, so the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. I'm sorry we're not enough here. Colleagues and colleagues in the area are kindly requested to join us. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the proposal for a decision I have presented, we are voting on a second time. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the amendment review of 4.7. 2001 – we have amendments to Articles 1 and 5. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and on the seven amendments to Article 1. The amendment under 1 is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed France Tsukjati: under 2 is the proposed committee: under 3 is the same committee: under 4 is the committee: under 5 a group of Members with the first signed Francet Tsukjati: under 6 and 7 a committee with a note that, if the amendment under order number 5 is adopted, under 6 is irrelevant. I am opening a debate on the seven amendments and Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	If you don't mind, I'd like to remind you once again of the first amendment. This is a right that allows the criminal provision of Article 200 of the Penal Code to actually come to light. That is why I suggest you support the first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I agree in principle with the comments made by Mr Tsukati and Mr Drobnic. However, the drafter wanted to regulate only what the Constitutional Court ordered him to do. We also consider that the solution proposed is not sufficient to be able to regulate the whole area. In addition, a new text is being prepared, a new law on marriage and family relations, which will regulate this area in its entirety. Today, however, a direct Convention on the Rights of the Child can be applied from the standpoint of the exercise of children's rights, so that only these changes can be adopted so far, and those affected by contacts can apply the benefit of children through the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 26 to 29. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 23 to 30. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 5 has not been accepted. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the amendment under 6. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 7. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 5 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to these articles, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Before this, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments may undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat for their cooperation. We're moving to 46. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Regulation of the Statutes of Other States of Successor States, formerly in the Republic of Slovenia, the summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Minister of the Interior Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Your Honor! The former Foreigners Act of 1991 did not lay down the conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits for former SFRJ citizens who were nationals of other republics at the time of their independence. Therefore, the Constitutional Court found that this law was contrary to the Constitution and ordered the legislator to comply within six months. In 1999, the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which regulated the status of these citizens, was adopted or entered into force and set out the reasons for refusing to grant a residence permit to them as foreigners. These reasons were: criminality for offences against public order and peace with elements of violence and conviction for certain offences or imprisonment over one or three years. This is precisely the reason why the Constitutional Court, by its decision published on 18.5.2000, annulled or repealed those provisions which, as a reason for the refusal of the permit, considered multiple penalties for offences against public order and peace, as well as criminal offences with a penalty of one year or three years, if more crimes were committed together. This law, which we propose, aims to align these amendments and additions with the Constitutional Court's decision to introduce the so-called free discretion in Article 3, with the discretion of the authority which may take into account in the decision granting the residence permit, the criteria set out specifically by law now by the amendment. This is the length of the foreigner's residence in the country, his personal, family, economic, social and other ties, as well as, as the law says, the consequences that would result from the refusal of an authorisation for a foreigner. At the same time, the law continues to refer to criminal service as a possible basis for refusing authorisation, but with a penalty which is at risk for a period of three or five years, if several crimes are committed together. Therefore, in this case, it is on the one hand less favourable to refuse this authorisation and at the same time to introduce a so-called free-thinking. In this way, we fully align the law in this Article with the previously cited decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Your Honor! We cannot accept the law itself in the Slovenian national party. We are convinced that the matter of staying in our country is too much to be played with, whether on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court or on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry itself. We are convinced, and regrettably, that most of the increase in crime in our country is still caused by arrivals or migrations from foreign or southern countries. There is no way we can agree to make Slovenian legislation nicer and nicer to the segment that is causing disorder in this country. That my speech won't be too nationalistic and that you won't label it like that, I'll end with that. But I will say again that we will oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to present the opinion of the Group anymore, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have also not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. The proposal for a law has two articles, so I am putting Article 1 into the debate and decision first. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We passed a law on articles and addresses. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and note that since no amendments have been adopted in the second reading, even in the third reading it is not possible to table amendments, so we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 8. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Minister, the Undersecretaries of State thank you very much for your cooperation. Representatives of the secretariat also thank you very much. We're moving to 47. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Ms. Minister, Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, please
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your Honor! You have before you changes and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Amendments are urgently needed to follow certain legislative changes that have taken place since the first presentation of this law. You probably remember, this is a bunch of laws that affected school legislation, both the Children's Guidance Act with special needs and the National Professional Qualifications Act, and the Basic School Act, which was just adopted in this Parliament, the Professional and Scientific Titles Act, the Offences Act, the Labour Relations Act, and the Collective Agreement on Education and Education. I would therefore say that the law carries several sets that are different in weight in its changes. The first set is weakness and ambiguity. Here, for example, some articles that have proven themselves to be insufficiently precise in practice, for example, Article 20, which provides for the verification of new educational programmes, and many others, which in fact mean only finishing, but not substantive changes, and do not in any way alter the concept of this area or the question of organisation regulation and financing in the light of the new nine years and the reforms that are under way. We've leaned on many evaluations. Some of them are very important. If I am merely quoting the international Phare MOCK project, which has brought behind it the urgent need to receptive and change vocational education, as well as other matters, so that we have decided that in some areas the organisation of school work needs to be set up differently. I'm not going to quote the individual bonds to the laws I mentioned earlier. This is quite something, and I think we will hear something else in the debate or in the reception. But again, in the transitional regime, we have touched some of the status or some places in education and education, such as the head office. We found out how many new officials would no longer meet the conditions, according to the old regulations of the law. Therefore, for this transitional period, we have proposed the appointment of some directors, so that we do not really have 117 administrators who do not meet the conditions after the adoption of this law, but a much lower number. The financial resources linked to the very consequences of the adoption of this law are, according to our calculation, less than 50 million SITs, as they will allow for a more rational organisation of education and education. I don't think we'd be adding anything more important right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. I must tell you that, without discussion and without a vote, the committee agreed with the Government's proposal that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education be dealt with in a simplified manner and that, without discussion, the law on the organisation and financing of education and education has been passed on to seven amendments. The three amendments were drafted on the proposal of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, and the next amendment was also drafted as a result of the proposal of these amendments proposed by the Secretariat. The three amendments were adopted on a proposal from the Members. You have these amendments under review, if necessary, I can explain them later when we decide on them. Otherwise, I would ask you to adopt the law along with the amendments proposed by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. All right, everybody, welcome home! Members of New Slovenia have examined the draft amendments to the law thoroughly and we agree with most of the proposed amendments. However, we do not agree with the amendment whereby, without the prior opinion of the Board of Education, Teachers or Professors, the director’s assistant could be appointed or dismissed. We are convinced that the appointment or discharge of an assistant director with a collective consensus would help to improve the participation of employees and to improve the functioning of the educational institution. We also have comments on the amendments to the provisions that place financial obligations on the shoulders of local communities from the country, since the proposed law provides for the transfer of obligations from country to local community in this area without the State providing all the necessary financial resources to ensure the fulfilment of the obligations transferred. In Slovenia, because of the geographical characteristics, we have very different situations in individual municipalities, so it is not appropriate to treat different situations in the same way. Such treatment constitutes a violation of the principle of equality. Different situations need to be addressed in an appropriate manner. Consider just the example of the municipality of Lovrenc in Pohorje, where one or two children are living in a village, the distances between settlements are large, the road infrastructure is extremely poor, which greatly increases the cost of safe school transport. Or, for example, another area, this is Kočevsko, where the safety of children on their way to or from school is threatened by a bear. Bears in this area are not exotic, but a daily phenomenon that can endanger the lives of adults and children with its unpredictability. Members of New Slovenia also object to the continuous extension of the period within which directors and assistants of directors may perform their functions, even though they do not have legal conditions for the performance of their mandate. This is a questionable quality of school management, while at the same time preventing younger professors from modernising our education with new views and different approaches. Members of New Slovenia finally agree with the adoption of this novel after a reduced procedure, because it is necessary changes in Slovenian education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Puksic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Nice greetings, including to government representatives. Before speaking a few words about the amendment of the law to the organisation and financing of education and education, I would like to point out - in fact, I am surprised that the secretariat has not spoken about it - in its opinion of 6 June, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs stated that the Secretariat notes, quote the secretariat in its opinion: "The secretariat notes that the proposed amendment contains, in addition to editorial corrections and the harmonisation with the new or amendments to existing laws, also provisions which constitute important substantive changes" - therefore, significant substantive changes - "and additions, so we are concerned that they are entirely less demanding changes and complements." That is, the secretariat points to a reduced procedure. As I have already pointed out in my previous law on self-contribution to ignorance, I am also warning in this case. In this case, not only me, but the secretariat also warns Members of the ruling coalition that this is not good and, of course, the indirect government, so it would sometimes be something to take into account. Now, if I skip to the content of the law itself, not to the one who talks about changes due to minor corrections, but to that part, to the substantive work. It would be useful to draw attention to some of these substantive changes. See, in the law in force in the last paragraph of Article 22 of the fourth indent, the pardon in article 81 of the amendment of the law is sub-22, reads: "The State budget funds provide salaries with contributions and taxes and other personal benefits on the basis of systematisation" and so on "from the State budget". [[...]] The fourth paragraph then reads as follows: "The State budget shall also provide the resources for the activities and tasks necessary to carry out the activities of education and education." So, from the state budget. This last indent speaks of means for the transport of primary school students and means for the protection of drivers. In the proposed law, that is to say, the amendment of the law - just a little bit to find it, where I have it - tabled by the government, suggests that this last indent be deleted. In fact, we have no right to delete this last indent because, as I am afraid, we do not have the right to do so again in the municipal budgets. If the appropriations from the budget to be provided in the budget are to be compensated by the appropriations from the municipal budgets, by not changing anything in the law on the financing of municipalities, then of course we are interfering with the municipal budgets. It's just not acceptable. Not lastly tell if then it will be necessary because of this This is not a matter of small resources. [[...]] It's a lot of money, a lot of money. Is this why municipal budgets will have to have rebalans? Most municipalities will simply have to do this because otherwise the operation of the municipalities will be illegal, because the items for the transport of children from education in this title will simply be on the other hand, where the inflows from this address which they should be will not be. I therefore propose to the entire assembly that the amendment to Article 22 of Mr Tank, which is such a work, destroys the deletion. The amendments set out in the amendment to the term of office from 4 to 5 years for the Director seem even fine to me, so that we have no concerns here. We have thought about this, and we have spoken about it in a package of changes to school legislation, which we have proposed to socialdemocratize to this national assembly, and some of this has also been summarised in this legislation, albeit little. We have proposed, which we now propose with two amendments, Articles 15 and 16 to obtain when the founder of the local community is to obtain the consent of the local community. This means that the council of the institution, the public institution, if the founder is a local community, must also obtain the consent of the local community. I hope that this time these two amendments will receive sufficient support because I believe that, therefore, it is logical and, as is the case with the founder of the State, it is necessary for the consent of the State to be. Where the founder of the local community is located, the consent of the local community is needed. Of course, it would make sense to support this amendment of the law for the reasons stated, but it is reasonable to support it together with the proposed amendments that we are proposing to the Social Democrats. Thus, the law will be more substantively complete and will not need to be amended again in a short time, at least because of this segment where amendments are proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Liberal democracy will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education and will support this in both a process and a meaningful one, i.e. in a substantive way. Why the procedure? So a reduced procedure is proposed. So the Law on Organising and Financing Education and Education deals with basic organisational, status and financial issues, both from pre-school education to adult education. We believe that the proposed amendments are without prejudice to fundamental conceptual issues. The amendments themselves, as was already mentioned in the introduction itself by the proposer, which are set out in a number of content sets, are the first set of shortcomings and ambiguities. Within this framework, we must say that after 1996, this is the first change under this law and all evaluation knowledge so far dictates some changes. The following amendments require compliance with other or new legislation. This is mainly the case of coordination with laws, the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, the National and Professional Qualifications Act, the Professional and Scientific Address Act and, ultimately, the Offences Act. In particular, I would like to mention the substantive changes in the law resulting from the evaluation and opening the possibility of an open coriculum. This is one of the most important areas and at the same time also applies the principle of the exercise of regional interests in a controlled and limited scale. In the transitional regime, we touch on a chapter that speaks of meeting the conditions for administrators, assistants, librarians and others. This is mainly the case with a transitional period, as indicated in the proposal by the proposer, so that the transitional period is extended, allowing for the regulation of the status of current directors and allowing some current directors to run again. So it's not about re-nomination, but it's about enabling re-candidate. They may or may not be chosen on the basis of an appropriate procedure. In the framework of liberal democracy, we will support the proposal for a shorter procedure in the parliamentary group and will support the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is certainly welcome at this time. As stated in the explanation and in the reasons for accepting this, we can see that some of these are unequivocally held to be for this reason or for any reason brought about by the events of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, despite the good design, despite the good wishes for a more effective and quality education, especially the education that the educational process is supposed to bring, we cannot support the law. It is a simple fact that we are convinced that the rule of law, where this law also belongs, should be based on the principle of equality of laws for all. In the existing and for us the contentious chapter of the bill under transitional and final provisions will re-enact this national assembly, in our view, a kind of silence, a silence for those who have not fulfilled or met the conditions set out in the 1996 basic law. In our opinion and after consultation with those who meet the conditions and are of a younger generation, we do not give them an opportunity, we do not put them in an equal position, because we again favour those who have not been able or unwilling to meet the conditions set out in point 4 of the transitional regime in the introduction of the text of the law. It seems to us that just for reasons of equality before the law of all areas of life in the Republic of Slovenia and in this area, we should adhere to the letters of law and not give solace to those, as I initially told those who do not or cannot meet the conditions. It seems basic to us that Members themselves should evaluate their own laws, because the previous assembly has also adopted the guidelines, and it has been quite a few years since then. It does not seem reasonable for us to extend and we will renew this deadline in 2005. Unfortunately, we do not agree with the law only at this point, but since we believe that a principled attitude must be taken, and this national assembly as a legislative body should not, in our opinion, give our support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The opinions were presented by representatives of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the debate of potential debaters is limited to five minutes in the future. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! I have a few questions or two or three questions. Article 21 refers to the addition of Article 78 of the Basic Law to the following text: "The garden or school is obliged to use the funds in accordance with the purpose for which they have been allocated." I have a question arising from a discussion on the assets of some primary school administrators. They say that in practice this will be very difficult to implement; it will also mean more work for the financial services of the institutions, which will have to conduct all business strictly for the purposes. This means that the Director will not have the right or the possibility of deciding on certain transfers of funds that have in practice proved to be more rational. In one year they may have provided more resources for textbooks, next year for paper or learning aids, cabinet equipment and so on. There was also a question, say, what happens when you have to pay a bill for electricity or heat, and you find that you've already exceeded one item and you're left with money for the other. From their experience, it has been said that bureaucratic supervision of such provisions may give rise to fear that an inspection may at any moment find fault in the operation of schools. I would therefore ask the Minister of State or the Secretary of State to present a little more thoroughly the consequences of this amendment to Article 21 and how this should then be interpreted in practice and what the powers of inspectors or financial inspectors in this regard should be. The following question concerns Article 24, which re-examines Article 82a, which refers to the limits and insurance of liability. I would like to know whether this new Article 24 will create new financial obligations for local communities, which could also be understood from the explanation of this Article, since there is no funding available for these new commitments in the State budget this year. Moreover, the question concerning the introductory explanation under point 2, which refers to the prices of the State budget financial resources and other consequences of the adoption of this law. It says here that the ministry will "screw" about 50 million tolars by implementing amendments to this law, so I am interested in where this money will "screw" and where this rationalisation will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He wants a government representative to answer? Mr Secretary of State, Mr Plusko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Article 21 is of the opinion that it merely further clarifies in relation to an article which provides for criminal sanctions that a kindergarten or school is obliged to use the funds in accordance with the purpose for which it has been allocated. I believe that these purposes are, as a rule, very accurately and consistently written, even from Article 81 of the ZOFI onward. After all, we have learned many lessons from experience and from the work of the Court of Auditors, so that virtually all such or other school remittances also have very clear conclusions as to what and why the funds are intended. On the other hand, there are, of course, those general material costs, from which it is also clear, and the principals, I think they know very precisely why and what they are intended for. This is true of what the Minister has pointed out at the outset to further clarify that there may be no individual misunderstandings and, above all, the purposeless spending of money. After all, until then, when has it ever been, but I think that these additional penalties will also make it impossible to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Pluško, if you thought that a warning was meant for you, it was not, if you want to explain anything else, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Perhaps the 82nd article you discussed about the limits and insurance of compensation liability, or Article 24. There were quite a few misunderstandings here, and above all there was a whole series of lawsuits filed for damages from the 1980s and also for later years. We know that in the early 1990s there was a transfer from funding, a large part of funding from the local community to the country. This is why it has been established, but at the same time it is in here by calculation, i.e. on average this proportion, which is set at 70, 30, is actually the artificial share that we have set up together with the Ministry of Finance. I think that in most cases there is a very clear, even financial, decision-making of the courts and then it is relatively clear. However, it is happening, even for these things from the past, that in the event of conflicts it is necessary to arbitrate in some way and determine exactly who has to pay the amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar, then Mr Sok, spoke first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize, so I have some comments to make, because this is my opinion and I have a constitutional right to do so. In particular, I would like to draw attention to my disagreement with certain parts of this law, as well as with other works that do not change, but have a strong impact on primary and other education, especially the links between local communities and schools and directly to the Ministry. My main comments will be on funding, as well as on appointment and on the impact of the local community on individual parts of the leadership or educational process. I would like to stop at Article 53: appointment of a director. Otherwise, I can appreciate that everything that is written here is fine and proper if we do not read it accurately and would see that the appointment of the director or this part of the law is virtually unchanged. However, it does not change because, apart from the Minister's consent to appoint a director, no one else can influence him. All it says is that it must obtain the opinion of the educator, teacher or any other congregation, in particular the local community, is only an opinion which is not binding on the minister to take into account the appointment of the director, nor for the appointment of the director itself. What's this all about? We cannot judge the work of the principals in such a general way, I do not know that these are people who do not do much, that I will not say very little, that their involvement in school is only to a large extent their personal beliefs or personal will. If you look at the article earlier, then you see that 80 percent, or that the principal should do it within one month, or before the start of the fall lesson, is all that is left is guidance. I know a number of principals who are extremely busy publishing publications, organisations, trips, but I have a feeling that this is their job above all, I will say, more a hobby than any other professional thing. In Austria, in particular, they know the tutor - this is the director. In their schools, this tutor or our principal has to teach weekly a few hours and get a salary allowance to lead the teaching congregation and everything that is written here. Well, they're terribly burdened with us. Now I'm going back to the basics. They are the principals, perhaps not the best, but the guardians of property, which is different in the congregations, but often also in their own congregation. So they're our, I'll say, municipal wealth keepers, if I can make some banal expressions. What's going on? These principals, at least what I have experience, care about this property badly, very badly. I can't say otherwise, but if I know someone who has to change schools after a few years, change windows, say they're 20, 25 years old, which is not usually what happens, but my colleagues will confirm that because they're already nodding. However, the congregation does not have the right to assess such a director that he is a bad owner of municipal or mixed property for the country. The court doesn't have that right. It only happens that this tutor or principal knows how much the congregation phone number is and calls, change it for me, do it for me, if not, then convenes a congregation of parents, gathers all sorts of things that negatively affect relationships as well as the process of repairing or maintaining schools. That's why I'm laying on my heart and, of course, I'm asking for your support. I hope that it will be positively accepted that the views of the teaching councils, those who actually vote, who are the electors of the principals, should be binding on the opinion of the local community. So that the council of kindergartens or schools or anything else appoints a director only if it has a positive view of the teaching congregation, the teaching congregation, or other congregations, as well as of the local community. That's what my point is. To enable those in charge and owners of these kindergartens and primary schools to have the right to decide on the appointment of a principal. I would also like to stop at the 82nd Article of this Act, where the Ministry of Education again interferes with municipal budgets by law. I would like to draw attention to the laws on the local community, as well as to the Constitution, which says that this can only be done if the opinion of the local communities is previously positive. In Article 82, I was disturbed by the second indent, where now, after the new municipalities, the law, if adopted, imposes the salaries of teachers in music schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	It's been five minutes, I'm afraid. Mr. Rupar! You didn't sign up for a debate to discuss it without restriction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	I'd just finish if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Here you go. Final thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	This Article also deals with transport and the extended stay or protection of children, which is supposed to cost once again the municipal budget. I would like to point out that there are so many problems with kindergartens that it is unacceptable to impose additional burdens on municipal budgets. In particular, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Rupar. I apologize, indeed, an overstatement, a final thought I think was appropriate. Would you like to replicate, Mrs. Possons? Here you go, Mrs. Possonec, a replica. Then there's a debate, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I am sorry that Mr Rupar has such negative experience with school and kindergarten directors and directors. I know some who are very self-sacrificing. I think that is why we cannot talk about them in general in this tone. That's what you say, school principals.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	One more time. I hope you're the only one who questioned me. I said that I am not talking in general about all the principals, that some are extremely concerned, and I know them too, that they are, of course, some who are not. I therefore appeal that the local communities, as well as the national communities, have the right to co-decision in the appointment of a director. If it were to be assessed that the principal is not being adjusted to the property, to the learning processes that people may be against the appointment, it would be necessary for the municipal council to decide - because I am not talking about mayors, but for the local community to give consent. On the other hand, I know a great many administrators who are conscientious and well - doing, including wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I don't know, I was a little absent, maybe the Secretary of State already answered that question. However, I would be interested to know why Article 13 of this Law proposes to delete the reference in Article 48, namely that the Council of the Institute, School or Kindergarten shall decide on the complaints of parents regarding educational and educational work in kindergarten or school. It seems to me that this provision should remain in law, since, after all, parents have the right to complain about educational and educational work in school or kindergarten, and Article 13 proposes that this power be withdrawn from the Council of the Institute. So, I would like you to answer my question why you propose deleting this in Article 48. And one more thing. Although I do not believe that this will be accepted in this House, I strongly agree that the appointment of directors of local institutions, where the founders of the congregation are, should be agreed on by the appointment of a municipal council or congregation, however they should be determined; briefly, those who finance should have a certain word about it, but not as it is now that there is no one. Last time, for example, we discussed the financial reports of institutions and, say, at some school - because schools are municipal institutions and we had these reports before us - at some school we have six students at the primary school of one employee. I think it's a matter of the director that it's easy to hyper-production in employment - to six students of one employee! These are huge costs for our country, it is said, for the salaries of employees, on the one hand, and on the other hand for the congregation as the founder of the municipal institution. If the congregation had any influence on the appointment of directors, I would say that such absurd situations would not have occurred, or you would have told me by the Ministry that this is systematization and that the trend or that such a relationship is good. It seems to me that this is - but I don't know the criteria for the number of employees per number of students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Plusko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	First, reply to the Member of Parliament concerning Article 13. Article 13 not only narrows down, but expands. The explanation says that the world has to discuss all matters; so far it has written, complaints, explicitly, but now it writes, about all matters, and it extends even to others, not only to the world of parents and so on, but all of it, you have a teaching, teaching, andragogic choir, inspection, representative union and so on - so on - we are expanding. And maybe another question of six students per employee. This is also happening, but I think that the network of primary schools in this country is, of course, one of the prominent political themes that may need to be addressed. Schools establish municipalities, but the state is a financier. Most of you know why and how this has happened, and in this context it will probably be necessary to have a thorough discussion of where and how, in what way, we can also abolish a school if we do not agree to such a way, although probably, where only six students per employee, and in those places parents know, and someone else can argue thoroughly that the school is necessary there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-17-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, as the clock is approaching, we need to get to know a few more things. In view of the fact that we have already expanded the general debate to deal with individual articles and amendments in the general debate, in fact, we have already expanded the general debate and that tomorrow the possibility of individual articles and amendments will have the possibility of reopening all these statements you have already made in the general debate, but perhaps they were not there. Allow me to conclude the general debate and to end the 47th item of the agenda at this point. Before terminating today's session of the 7th regular session, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will consider the remaining items of the agenda at tomorrow's morning's follow-up session, ending today's 47th item, starting with a second reading, in the context of the reduced procedure, followed by agenda items 50 and 51. The meeting will then be suspended so that working bodies can meet to prepare an 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In any event, the working bodies will be able to start meetings no later than 13 a.m. tomorrow. The 26th agenda item and the 43rd item will be held on Thursday at 10 a.m. With regard to the 48th item, it will be proposed that the hearing be postponed to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. Your Honor, thank you very much. Allow me also to convey to you the announcement of Mr Jelk Kacin, Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. He kindly asks all members of the committee to meet him in the big room at 4 p.m., I apologize, at 6 p.m. in the big salon. Once again, thank you very much and goodbye.
