ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	I invite you to come to the hall so we can continue and conclude the fifth session today. We've done most of the things that were on the agenda. Before the start of the National Assembly or the meeting, let me inform you that we will therefore start with the Rules of Procedure and then proceed with the 10th point, then with the 8th point and at the end of the 5th. Point. These are essentially final decisions, so that the National Assembly could even exhaust the agenda during today’s meeting. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Good morning and good afternoon, with the desire to finish successfully the fifth session, which we are now continuing. Before that, I would like to inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting with the following colleagues: Janez Kramberger, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Noblemen, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Jelko Kacin, Maximilian Lavrinc, Cyril Pucko, Danica Simšič, Leopold Grošelj, Dr. Miha Brejc, Alojz Peterle, Jožef Jerovšek, Ivan Kebrič, Yuri Malovrev, Milan Kokutar for the start of the session, Stanislav Brenčič, Miran Jerič also for the start of the session Janez Drobnic, Igor Štemberger, Borut Šuklje, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Janez Cimperman, Dr. Andrej Bajuk and colleague Moze, whom I see, for the afternoon part of the meeting. So today, too, many colleagues do not participate in the work of the Assembly because of their obligations in international activities, so once again, those of us who are here will require a lot of patience. I suggest we start with the 6th item of the agenda. But before that, of course, we recognize the presence in the hall. There are 50 Members and Members present. We're moving to six. At the top of the agenda - firstly, a proposal by the civil servant of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft Rules of Procedure were tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlik. I'm asking Mr. Anderlich if he wants a word. Please, colleague Anderlič has the floor as a representative of the motioners, followed by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! After almost four years of discussion, we finally reached the point where we will be able to decide on the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Both experts and Members were involved in this debate and indirectly the media and other interested public. I am aware that the arguments put forward in this debate may not yet be sufficient for some to draw up the necessary majority for the adoption of this act in the national assembly. At the same time, I am sure that this Rules of Procedure could be adopted and the arguments put forward would be sufficient if everyone were in some way convinced that the Rules of Procedure are what must be the framework for the work of the General Assembly, regardless of who is in a position or opposition, and that they would renounce certain short-term interests. Why does the new rules of procedure even need to be followed? We have already said a lot in explanation of our proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. However, I think there will be no mistakes if I repeat some of these arguments briefly. The current Rules of Procedure were drawn up immediately after the adoption of the new Constitution and failed to break the popcorn by regulating the parliamentary procedure created in the previous system. Those who have been following the establishment of this Rules of Procedure from a close point of view are sure to recall that the proposal prepared by a group of experts at that time has been substantially amended in the parliamentary procedure. And it was changed by going back to the system that was in force in the congregation arrangement at the essential points. The most important expression of this fact is the position of the Government in the legislative process. The current Rules of Procedure treat the Government as an executive council preparing laws in accordance with instructions, formerly the Assembly, now the National Assembly. We thus come into absurd information when the government must prepare the law after first reading in accordance with the instructions of the National Assembly and then make amendments to its own law, because it does not agree with these instructions. Of course, this is not the only weakness in the drafting of government laws. At the final stage of this meeting of the National Assembly alone, we met with laws that have completely new articles, amended or proposed by the Government a whole new content of the new articles, which is unacceptable. It would be very serious to even ask whether such a business arrangement is in line with the constitutional principle of the division of power at all. In run-off parliamentary democracies, they know, without exception, the arrangements that are completely different from ours, as they consistently respect the principle of the independence of individual branches of government. This, of course, means not only the Government's autonomy in drafting legislative proposals but also the full autonomy of Parliament to regulate the law in its own will from the moment the proposer sends it into the legislative procedure. Since then, the law has been fully administered by Parliament and no longer by the government, as it has been so far. This most important system error of the current Rules of Procedure has been joined by a whole series of smaller ones, which together with it prevent the predictable and well-organised work of the National Assembly. In addition to subjective causes, of course, but today we will not talk about them - I could say a lot about them myself. In my previous term, I visited the German Bundestag, together with a group of Members and the professional services of the National Assembly, where we were just to learn the way and organisation of their work. Believe it or not, I remember that on the screen of television, through which it was possible to monitor the work on the plenary, the clock flashed in the upper right corner, starting the next item on the agenda. Later we learned that the exact hour of the beginning of each point was known a month in advance, and of course we wondered why this was not possible in us. With us, let's say - this morning we argued about what point we are going to start today's session, even though yesterday we decided by vote that we would start with exactly this point. How did the Germans achieve this, but it is not possible to predict how long Members will be discussing a particular matter? Or maybe they have a dictatorship in Germany, as someone would have said. Whether they have abolished democracy, the direct expression of which is the right to unlimited debate in Parliament - as some in Slovenia claim. So, in Germany, do Members of the Parliament put up clues and can so accurately plan their work because Members of the Parliament cannot speak to conceiving agents? Well, we all know that in Germany they have democracy, only the rules they work by are different from ours. These rules, however, enable them to have some organizational skills, of course, that a month in advance is the day and hour when a particular matter is dealt with. These rules are precisely the ones that are missing in our rules of procedure or are too large for us to work in at least the same way. First of all, there is no body in the National Assembly that has the power to decide on certain procedural issues by which the procedure is to be determined in a predictable manner. In other parliaments, this function, even if not formally defined, is mainly taken over by colleges. These powers are not vested in us by the President, not by colleges, but are divided into about 25 persons - that is, the members of the College and the presidents of the working bodies. As a logical consequence of this deficiency, the rules in force are as follows: the rules in force are filled with an unknown amount of time, but they are practically not respected, with the exception of certain deadlines. By comparison, I have also reviewed the German Rules of Procedure as soon as I have prepared for this point, and if there is really something wrong, then this Rules of Procedure - if there is nothing wrong with my view - knows only three hands, in everything else determines these college hands, i.e. the timing of the work of the National Assembly. In our case, everything is determined, so to speak, the possibility of a flexible response is not; logically, if there is no one who should make a decision, or even does not want to be. At least it's because it's all scattered, and no one wants to make a decision so they don't have to be responsible. Otherwise, I think that it is also possible for us to determine, on the basis of the division of functions, who would decide what to do, but because this is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, it happens that no one decides and, of course, no one is responsible for anything. Next. In the National Assembly, anyone can speak as much as he wants and as many times as he wants. While the Rules of Procedure allow for restrictions on the debate, they are decided by the National Assembly and are almost in practice not applicable. In other countries, there are limits to debates, a rule where, in truth, such an arrangement may also know exceptions, which clearly, due to this restriction, do not talk about the abolition of democracy. Keep going. In the National Assembly, the working bodies do not make practical decisions about anything, but they only adopt their views on the matter. As a result, they do not perform what is supposed to be their main role: it is supposed to be a filter through which professional arguments are cleared in the first place. As this has not become so, they are increasingly perceived as an obstacle on the way to a final decision at the plenary session. All the debate is therefore simply duplicating. In other parliaments in Europe, working bodies are formally much more difficult than we are, so they can take over a nice part of the debate that would otherwise take place on the plenary. All these issues are resolved by the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure in a European comparable way. The legislative process consistently implements the principle of the adoption of law by Parliament, as is known by the countries of parliamentary democracy. So, from the moment the National Assembly is brought to the attention of the marriage proposal, it becomes entirely its property. The proposer can no longer withdraw it, but above all the legal proposal from the hearing is no longer returned to the applicant, but its content is determined by Parliament itself. Of course, the proposer can influence the content of the law through the introduction of amendments, but this option is limited only if the text has been redrafted to such an extent that the objectives of the law have been corrupted. This proposal of the Rules of Procedure also finally gives the National Assembly the authority which will have the power to properly organise the work and progress of the procedures in the National Assembly. This is supposed to be the college of the President of the National Assembly, which will become a decision-making body in order to be able to take this role. In addition to making certain procedural decisions, the College will be able to take the decisions necessary to better plan the work of the National Assembly. By the way, the National Assembly should already have a programme of work for this year, but it does not; we did not accept it, except on schedule, should also have a substantive one. Although I also know who should propose it, we do not have it, and, of course, we cannot plan it as we should. In this regard, the most important of his competence is to adopt a work programme, which will define in two months the days of the meetings of the national assembly and the working bodies, as well as the matters to be dealt with at these meetings. If the work in the National Assembly is still consistent and unpredictable after the adoption of these solutions, such reasons will certainly be subjective in nature - as I said before, they are many times now - but because it is not prescribed how this would be and who should be responsible, of course many excuse themselves. Of course, colleges would not be able to prepare and implement a timetable if they did not also have the power to set a limit on the discussions. The Rules of Procedure allow several types of restrictions: to a Member, to a Group of Members, to a single agenda item. And practice will show which to use in individual cases, if at all. Since there is likely to be the most obvious on this issue from some parliamentary groups, let me say that programming in the work of the National Assembly is simply not possible if the discussions are unlimited and in particular do not relate to items on the agenda. But if the work isn't programmed on time, we've got situations, we're in business today. The messengers are angry because the ministers are not at the meeting; the ministers are angry because they never know when to turn and spend, according to them, precious time looking into the air. However, discussions are intended for example. the occurrence of a public debt shall be turned into the identification of credits in the near past or the search for culprits for inter-war collaboration and inter-war killings and so on. We are simply proposing that the endless debates that are sometimes held in this house of democracy are sooner harmful than they are beneficial. If nothing else, they result in less faith in democracy among citizens who accompany these fruitless debates. Democracy, however, also requires some personal discipline so that the parliamentary debate does not become an end in itself. What the Rules of Procedure have to say is that it is possible to present different views, not their endless repetition or any other distance from the issue on the agenda. Our proposal ensures this, both in the working bodies and in the plenary session. Among the most important solutions to our proposal, let me mention the issue of the role of working bodies. Their importance in the legislative process will be significantly greater than before, despite the fact that the working body will only deal with the legal proposal before the second hearing. In this discussion, working bodies will not only comment on individual amendments but will also vote on them. The amendments voted will become part of the legislative proposal, so that the text prepared by the national working body, and not the text submitted by the applicant, will be addressed at the meeting of the national assembly. We are confident that this will reduce the number of votes at the meeting of the National Assembly and that discussions at the meetings of the home labour bodies will be much more professional than they have been so far. The solutions I have presented in this debate are, in my view, key solutions to the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. There are, of course, a number of other changes with regard to the arrangements in force. Let me list just a few: the constitution of the National Assembly, the appointment of members of working bodies, the submission of amendments by the State Council, the consideration of several laws with the same content, or so-called order, the merger of Kviaz and the Commission on Immunity. These solutions bring simplifications in the National Assembly or solve cases that have proved to be controversial in practice or have allowed for different interpretations. If this is necessary, we will also say more about them in the debate below. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that I may not have convinced you all that the proposed Rules of Procedure are worthy of support, and I am sure that my colleagues with whom we have signed this text will not be able to do so in their entirety. Even before today, many serious and serious accusations have been made on the basis of this proposal by certain groups of Members and individuals. However, I have always felt that the new Rules of Procedure should be adopted just before the elections, when political parties do not yet know what role they will play and, therefore, would be willing to think about both options: what are good solutions for the opposition and what is good for government parties or what is good for the country. Unfortunately, this failed four years ago, not even in the last elections, although the proposal was four years ago just before the adoption and all political parties or parliamentary groups agreed that a new rules of procedure should be made. Four years went by, like I said, and we came up with a proposal before you. I am sure that all those harsh words that are likely to happen here, and that I hear every day practically, about the abolition of democracy and the impalement of the concubine, in this case it would not be if they did not know who would be in what situation after the constitution of the National Assembly. I'm aware that we're going to hear something from this repertoire today, but that's just the way it is in life. I would like to say to all those who will not be able to do so without these big words: for each of the key solutions to this Rules of Procedure, including the limitation of debates, we will be able to give you examples from the European Union countries, one I have already talked about today. Of course, I am sure that there will be arguments for and against, and I only suggest that we consider together whether we are prepared to introduce in our Rules of Procedure institutions that have been known for a very long time in the European Union, or whether we want to insist on the standards of democracy as established in the transition from the assembly system and some compromise has been needed. And if I want to confuse you with the argument that the situation in our Parliament is not as mature as the rules established in the European Parliaments, then consider that they are not the situation as they are, precisely because we have different rules than they have. The most important step in changing relations is to change the rules and rules we propose, bringing exactly this: a different, better situation for work. In a later debate, as a Member, I will also identify myself with some comments from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, because I think it is right that some be spoken of today, and some that we should consider preparing the Rules of Procedure for a second reading. I think that this would be useful to discuss this today as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the representative of the candidates, colleague Anderlich. I invite the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, as the competent working body, to submit a report or an opinion on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 3rd regular meeting on 8 March and then at its 4th regular meeting on 4 April and 2nd extraordinary meeting on 6 April, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held this first consideration of the proposed new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission has received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the Commission for Immunity as an interested working body. All of this is included in the material for today's agenda. In the general debate, only Dr Jožef Bernik, who said and warned that it was necessary to examine and take into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters in most cases, said that there were reasonable comments pointing out the shortcomings in the text of the proposed Rules of Procedure. The Commission did not support the proposal for a mandate-immunity committee position as an interested working body. The Commission also did not support the proposal for a decision with the view that, in preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second hearing, the applicant should examine the comments of the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters and adopt only a conclusion: "The proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a suitable basis for the preparation of a draft Rules of Procedure for the second reading." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, chairman of the commission. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Neither do I.]] I therefore give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, he asked his colleague Bogdan Barovic for it. I'm sorry. Comrade Kelemin, did you want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Okay. You have the floor. My colleague Branko Kelemina, please present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Mr Peče, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Respectable all together! In principle, the Group of the Social Democratic Party - I say in principle, given the practice so far - is certainly aware that in some respects it would be good to have the rules of procedure of the National Assembly as a small constitution in certain elements, it is indeed possible to change and rationalise certain procedures, but our basic assessment is that the current proposal of the Group of Members goes much in this direction in order for rationalisation to work in areas where - according to our assessment - it is not necessary. Therefore, in order to limit the debates - in particular the debates, the constructive discussions of the opposition - in those points, in those areas where things are not prepared as they should be, and therefore, of course, there are all the unloving events and the extension of procedures and delays, which of course is evident from the practice so far. No matter what the definitions of external institutions are, which are just recommending that the procedures in the National Assembly in adopting legislation are long-lasting - it is true that we are aware of this, but it is not the biggest problem in this, but the biggest problem in this [[and this has been demonstrated in the light of the practice of the previous reference to the National Assembly, in particular the previous reference, and this practice continues now; it is perfectly clear and is seen from a range of elements]] That matters are not prepared as they should be, and that, worst of all, the existing rules of procedure are not respected, respect neither on a time-limit nor procedural basis in certain elements or are being adapted to the current policies, as most are responding to and - of course - they are also in breach of clearly defined provisions in the Rules of Procedure by voting. But the worst part is that actually the President is able to interpret and amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure where he thinks it is not what he wants or what some political option would like. So, according to our assessment, the first thing the proponents should do in this Rules of Procedure should, of course, be to find out, in the light of current practice, - this is the fact - where those objective weaknesses of the ruling coalition, government and parliament are; therefore, where are those objective weaknesses of those who are most responsible for the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be an effective tool for the effective work of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of power. So here I should give the applicant my basic emphasis, this is our basic opinion: to look for all these weaknesses in myself, with all these bodies responsible for the effective work of Parliament and the enforcement of the Rules of Procedure, not to seek solutions there - that is, to limit the debate, to restrict the opposition to the right of interpretation of its constitutional and legal rights. These things I think are crucial. And this is the greatest flaw and the greatest weakness of this Rules of Procedure, of course, according to our assessment. Many times, however, you point out that there is not enough responsibility in this Rules of Procedure to know who is responsible, that it is too much for collective responsibility, etc. I have also made this point in person many times myself, as well as our parliamentary group, but I am sure that, according to my assessment and the assessment of the parliamentary group, these changes that you have now proposed, unless you do so; the government and the government coalition, as well as the Parliament's leadership, will not make these internal corrections, remove all internal weaknesses, the rules of procedure, whatever you accept, will not work. That's what practice has shown. Just look, in the previous term and now: a whole series of rapid procedures, which are unjustifiable, unprepared materials for meetings, postponed meetings, matters adopted on the agenda of the National Assembly, confirmed, which are not prepared, then transferred to the second meeting. In fact, during the meeting of the National Assembly - which I think is wrong - it is not in line with some normal part of the National Assembly - at a time when the National Assembly or during this period before or before the National Assembly, during the recess, after the State Assembly meeting, committees and committees are convened. This urgency, this non-coordination in all these bodies that I cite, is the only and fundamental reason that these matters do not work as they should. And if you don't make these changes here, you haven't done anything. This is our basic position, and we think that it is the only right thing to do, and this should be the case. Because it will not be said again that we are stalling this debate, which is of course extremely important - I will not mention all the weaknesses that this National Assembly has caused with disrespect for the Rules of Procedure of the previous period, but these things are evident and we have said them many times. In this way, I will only say that our Group of Members is certainly all the positive elements proposed by this Rules of Procedure, which will help to increase the actual effectiveness of the National Assembly in this way, and in order to get closer, perhaps somehow, to the functioning of the Parliament of the developed European countries, we will support all these positive solutions. However, we will strongly oppose all those things that in every way try to silence the opposition because of other weaknesses - I will not use words used by someone else who, in my opinion, are not appropriate. Therefore, we will not support those matters which could also have a qualitative impact on final decisions and on the debate - that is, the debate on final decisions and those things that are not prepared and regulated as they should be due to the shortcomings of previous actors. In this regard, of course, we will then continue, because today it is a general debate, through the drafting proposals we will explain this further. In short, we will, of course, support positive solutions. All that, however, affects only trying to silence the opposition with restraints, and we will not support those solutions and will, of course, try to prevent them by all means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Pečet, and he will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. She'll get the word of a colleague of Montenegro after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! It is and should represent a forum where opinions are met in which different views are encountered; that is, it is so different. Not all views are liked by one government, one leader of a group. That is why we are here to draw up a final position that will bring this country into a certain better future. Do not block this future or destroy communication! Allow democracy to take place in this national assembly, and in this political situation that arose after last year's elections, in a positive direction. Allow Members of smaller Members of Parliament or political parties to have their ability to act, to assume their share of the responsibility and their part of the rights within the framework of their work and tasks for which they have decided to perform or to apply. Allow the opposition to carry out its task, even though I know that it is difficult for an irresponsible powerful party; it is difficult in your heart to bear so much honesty and wisdom that it is wise to let an interlocutor into your dialogue. In our opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also act prudently and wisely if we learned something from this debate and would not consider the debate in Parliament to be a torment and something undesirable and look only in its line of view. They are never different opinions if you only know how to accept them as well-intentioned. As long as you label them as bad as something you're not susceptible to, there's a problem. And we met with this problem in the National Assembly today. According to the four proposers, they come from government parties, liberal democracies, consolidated lists, SLS + SKD and DeSUS, democracy in this national council is no longer needed. You will do your utmost to achieve the goals you have set out in the Coalition Treaty. But, gentlemen, you are in violation of the coalition treaty, and you are no longer sticking to it! Do not adhere to the basic principles, such as the economic development of this country, and disagreements are here. What's going to happen, gentlemen of the united list, from DeSUS and from SLS + SKD, when you see that in this government you don't need to actually do things past you? At that time, you will regret that you are today giving your voice and your signatures to the new regime or to the non-regulation of the communication situation in that country. The first one said that the matter had developed for four years. It is true that for four years there is talk of amending the Rules of Procedure, but not in this direction, not in the direction of eliminating the importance of Parliament, but in the direction of trying to establish a better, better dialogue. Of course, but that's not telling you. The applicant also made comparisons with one of the European countries. As in the current tape, he was always referring to the same country, Germany. For a moment, it even struck me that even as a party, they may have turned around and changed the final word of Slovenia to Germany. He told us about his visits, he told us about his adventures and adventures in Germany, and he took over how smart things were there. But, you know, we live in Slovenia, Slovenia is not Germany. And I am very glad that it is not Germany; they have a different degree of democracy - I am not saying that they have a better, I am not saying that they have a worse but inappropriate situation in the Republic of Slovenia. We have too many important and demanding things ahead of us in this mandate to limit ourselves. We're about to be privatized, privatized by banks. You have seen for yourself that the Minister of Privatisation himself does not know much, but he predicts that he will be: one, two, three here. The Minister himself and his coalition brush don't know much. Why would you not sometimes listen to the opinions of other parties?I just want to say that it is wise to listen to others. The biggest changes that touch on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, for which it is probably clear to everyone here that we will not support it, touch on the replicas; touch on the new body that receives the legal form and is called the college; touch on the working bodies with which you try to divert public attention in ruling parties and destroy it, in short, that things will happen where there is not so much media present; in short, where there is no public interest. And, of course, the timing or limitation of discussions. In addition, those institutions that have acted properly at least a while ago in this National Assembly as the secretariat for legislation and legal matters, which, unfortunately, in recent moments have also destroyed so much that they do not come forward with their views on just a few lists. We can go in one order. Replicas, as the first chapter I've listed, represent dialogue. They represent the mode of communication where opinions are confronted, where point A or person A is spoken and person B responds to it in order to reach a consensus. Do not consider replica to be something harmful, as something negative, this is not the purpose of the replica. Replicas are just to clarify things. And better if things are clear in this national council. Next, you're establishing a college. You are establishing a college that will make political parties what they deserve in fact: it is one group of equally thinking, irresponsible individuals. This is how individual representatives of political groups will meet at the college, and they will have their power to carry as strong a point as that of their parliamentary group. Then we are Members of this National Assembly completely unnecessary! It would make more sense for this country, it would be cheaper for this country to have only a college to meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups of all those represented in these countries in the National Assembly and decide everything. That's what you're trying to do. Then, for once, be complete and thorough and suggest what you want! But we are moving away from the sense of parliamentary democracy, but by doing so we lose sight of the multilateral elections, for which, gentlemen, after the elections, you always forget that they exist. There's further talk of working bodies. Following the new proposal, the working bodies take up one new substance, one increased content and increased rights and responsibilities. But why? Because you're afraid of meeting arguments in this room because you're afraid that your thoughts - and what's worse - your activities people will get to know. You want to pour them, physically you want to pour them into those small rooms in the halls of this national assembly, which you are calling, as it seems to you, which you are leading, as it seems to you. And around management. At the outset, Mr Kontic, President of the Business Commission, also spoke: despite her indiscretion, she has accepted what she has accepted, despite the debate in the context of ignoring parliamentary groups, a kind of obstruction that has even been written publicly and is not even mentioned. It's going through. It's all going through this national council. You'll do it from all the committees. And of course, because I think we all know, even in all commissions, that the working bodies of the National Assembly have a majority. Finally, as regards the limitation of debates. Why? We are members of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, unfortunately we are not paid according to effect. Why limit the debate? None of us, at any confrontation, spoke at any pre-election speech about not wanting to work. All of us were full of mouths and words about work, about how much we were willing to do for this country. Today, in terms of rationalisation, you are trying to reduce our working time. Why? But at least let someone, if you don't want to, do your job to spend more time in this national assembly than you want. I will also touch on the reports we have received from the parliamentary groups, a very refugee report from the Rules of Procedure Commission. Why is it very evasive? Because it's not worth serious reading and serious debate. It notes that the Secretariat shall identify certain shortcomings, shortcomings in the rules of procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure are an act which could be taken to the end by its content. The existing rules of procedure have been in force for several years and look where we are going. When led by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, he allows replicas or allows the reading of letters in the form of replicas, and when the opposition Member wants to apply to the replica, he tells him in advance what he is going to say and does not give him the replicas. You're taking advantage of the institution of the possibility of a pause. You use the Institutes of Amendments, you exploit the institutes of everything. In the opinion of the Secretariat for Legal Affairs in the framework of the National Assembly, the content of this proposed Rules of Procedure is too narrow and will allow for new and new disputes in this National Assembly because we will always revolve around the same thing: this is what the procedure is. At a certain point, the procedure for which the parliamentary group is concerned and how the procedure is interpreted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. All members of the National Assembly or of this quorum - so far we can call it the National Assembly, so far we can call it the Quorum and some form of democracy. If all of this is accepted, we will no longer be able to appoint him - you have also received the opinion of a mandate-immunity commission, which in its work has only touched on those matters that touch its work and have not embarked on a political debate. The Commission notes the disagreement, the non-compliance with other Slovenian legislation, but, of course, as the Rules of Procedure Commission, as proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure, they did not take a position on this because they do not care. Come on, let's go straight through the wall. It's a wonderful idea and a wonderful idea, but I hope you don't succeed! Therefore, the only positive opinion supporting the proposed amendments is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know why I'm not surprised, and I don't know why none of you are surprised! Of course, in the interest of easier, simpler and more bluffing it is that this National Assembly becomes a partner only on paper. It's not a content partner, it's just an organ that can be blamed. And this is the blame for all the parliamentary parties represented in this national assembly, not just those who are actually causing this guilt. In the Slovenian National Party to the Draft Rules, we will not accept and appeal to all those who can and know the content of the amendment proposal and who are aware of what this means for this country and for this National Assembly, consider your support for this law. At the final stage, we all know that we have already met with one of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure this year - in the area of the budget. Where that led us, you saw last week. The budget was accepted with a single amendment coming from opposition parties. With one of them. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Jakič, I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	The budget itself has led us so far as we can see that it is not worthwhile to rationalise where it is not necessary. I suggest that you also do not support the other parliamentary groups in this document, which some call an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much, buddy. The word is from a colleague of Silva Crnugelj. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. She will be given the floor by her colleague Levič to present the views of the Youth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members, welcome! Today is an important day for all of us, Members of Parliament and Members, because today, on the eve of the holiday of 27 April, the day of rebellion against the occupying party, we are beginning to consider the basic legal act of the National Assembly, the so-called small constitution of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a very extensive basic legal act whose changes and additions some have looked forward to and with reasonable hope for a number of years. This year we will celebrate the 10th anniversary of our country's existence, as well as parliamentary democracy. After all these years, we have exhausted and identified all the good and bad features of the current rules of procedure, which we have been using for the past nine years. What does the United Nations Group of the Social Democrats expect from the new Rules of Procedure? Of course, it rightly expects that the new solutions and proposals, together with the comments that Members will offer in the debate, will help to modernise the organisation and working methods of the National Assembly, since the experience of the Council's work so far has shown that it is necessary to re-organise this and that only individual changes to the Rules of Procedure will not be sufficient. The Joint Group of Socialists expects that all procedures and tasks will be adapted to the new, modern e-commerce in the National Assembly. The Joint List Group expects the procedures to be so defined and defined that the work of the National Assembly, the work of Members and Members, the work of the National Assembly Committees and the work of the Commissions will be carried out in a coordinated manner, without delay and without such endless painful blockades. We expect that the debates of Members and Members and the number of replicas will be limited to a rational number, so that it will be right to formulate opinions and that there will be no consequence in the poor formulations of some amendments and other matters. The Group expects those parts of the Rules of Procedure relating to the planning of the work of the National Assembly to be so structured and designed to show the results of the modern theory of organisation of work. In particular, it seems important for us in the Group of Members to rationalise the legislative process, since the legislative process is one that is crucial to Slovenia's integration into the European Union. We expect that the effects or consequences of this Rules of Procedure will affect the decision-making process by adapting it to new voting technologies, by establishing a mechanism that will ensure effective, rapid decision-making, in particular preventing, once again, these painful and too frequent blockades. The Joint List rightly supports the new proposed solution, which leaves a greater or greater burden on the decision-making of the parent committees and commissions, as it is more appropriate, and will thus be extended a little longer in the decision-making and treatment phase of the parent body. The plenary sessions will thus, possibly, be somewhat shorter and will also, in part, confirm and finalise the decision-making process. This is, of course, a key amendment to this Rules of Procedure and it actually interferes with the basic structure of the existing Rules of Procedure. And we all expect that it will actually help all the other changes that will rationalise the work. The Joint List Group considers that, despite the proposed Rules of Procedure, there are still some issues which are not sufficiently clear and sufficiently worded. In particular, we think it is an important question of the public principle of the work of the national assembly and the exceptions to this basic principle. We are wondering whether these exceptions are well defined and whether in some segments this fundamental principle is also not distorted, since the principle of the public is fundamental to the democratic character of the work of the national assembly and is also, in some ways, an indicator of democracy in general. In establishing the National Assembly, we expect this Rules of Procedure to resolve those gaps which were unfortunately already present in the constitution of this National Assembly. With regard to parliamentary initiatives and questions, we expect Members to be able to exercise their basic mission and purpose without hindrance and reservations and restrictions. In particular, some of the expectations of the UK Group of Members are those of critical public opinion, particularly in the process of identifying responsibilities and actions due to unjustified absence of meetings. In particular, the Group expects that the appointment clauses will be so clear and so clearly defined that they will allow optimal and accurate planning of the work of the Members themselves and of the sending groups. We expect a clear defined attitude towards the government as well as government labour. Therefore, the Group of Members supports in one way all efforts and provisions of this Rules of Procedure to rationalise the work of the National Assembly, all those employed in the National Assembly, the Members themselves, and to help improve the situation in the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. The word is from a colleague of Peter Levich. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. After that, she was a colleague of Majda Zupan, a member of the New Slovenia Group. My friend Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. We have on our hands the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supposed to replace the old one or the current one, which has proved to be a survivor and in certain parts is already quite inappropriate. This isn't a surprise. The current Rules of Procedure were written in other times, containing solutions to the inherited former system, which is no longer available. It is a fact that it takes at least a decade to reshape systemic legislation. So we need a new rules of procedure. So far, we have agreed with the proposalers. We probably agree with what all members of the national assembly. Members of the SMS do not agree with two things, and these are: the way in which the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is adopted and the content that does not contain in good works what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is also called a small constitution, should contain. As far as the adoption of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I would like to remind the proposer of the fact that, after the elections of 2000, at the first meetings of the Rules of Procedure Commission, we agreed on how the new Rules of Procedure should be adopted by the National Assembly. It seemed that the new Rules of Procedure would be adopted thoughtfully, without haste and cooperation with the opposition. The Commission adopted a decision on the rules of procedure of the current reference to continue to draw up the text of the new Rules of Procedure, by Article 69, has already been harmonised in the previous mandate and is expected to continue all in agreement from there, including in cooperation with the Working Group on Rules of Procedure and the Group of Experts. It's none of that. The coalition has decided on a different path, another plan. On behalf of rationalisation and efficiency, she decided to take a solo action. Not sufficiently consolidated relations between the parliamentary majority and the opposition, instability within the coalition, which is why they call for as much consensus as possible in the adoption of an important act such as the Rules of Procedure, is clearly forgotten. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure, which we are discussing today, is proof of the tendency after a rapid transformation and thus cannot be adopted by the Rules of Procedure in an expert, correct and politically wise manner. For something else, I should be preparing the Rules of Procedure together, not by copying and solating. The Rules of Procedure are important not only for the functioning of the National Assembly but also for legal peace. It is of great political importance as it lays down the rules governing the conduct of political parties and other political actors in their operations. It is already a provision of the Constitution that the Rules of Procedure are adopted by a two-thirds majority of Members present, which is a rather difficult majority, that makes it clear to us that when adopting the Rules of Procedure, there is a need for a purely broad consensus on the basic rules. The Rules of Procedure will not be adopted for only one term, but several mandates will be kept up to date when the relationship between the coalition and the opposition is certainly different and the composition of the coalition and the opposition is likely to be different. In the interest of constructive action from the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we propose to adhere to the Commission's decision on the Rules of Procedure of 7.12.2001, and in this way we will all set out the content of the Rules of Procedure together with as much consensus as possible. The content of the draft Rules of Procedure is the next thing I would like to point out and to which we are critical in the Party of Young Slovenia. We agree with some of the solutions to the draft Rules of Procedure. For example, provisions that materialize the constitutional principle of the division of power. Some solutions, however, are absolutely rejected. Today is not the time to debate and weigh individual provisions, but we can assess that the restrictions introduced by the proposal on behalf of rationalisation smell political candidatures. Rationalisation, which cuts down on democratic rights, is not acceptable. Restricting parliamentary debates, depriving individual Members of their right to vote, a situation where the voice of the leader of the parliamentary group counts only as many Members as the parliamentary group would count, is illustrative of the fact that, in a headless rush for efficiency and rationalisation, democracy is forgotten. Rationalisation yes, but not in the sense of violating Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to prevent different opinions from being confronted without different views. Such restrictive provisions to the proposal for a Rules of Procedure are too many. In our view, such a proposal for a Rules of Procedure is not appropriate for a second reading. Nor is it because the drafters - in their opinion - used the draft working text of the new Rules of Procedure, prepared by the working group appointed by the Rules of Procedure Commission, to prepare the draft Rules of Procedure. In regulating some important solutions, we would have acted differently. This proposal does not change the substance. Somewhere we need to set boundaries, find a middle way between brutal economic logic, that is maximum efficiency, and demand for democracy on the other hand. The latter says that everyone has the opportunity to express his or her opinion and to be taken into account. In the Young Slovenia Party, we want this border closer to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Peter Levich! There's a colleague of mine, Aloys Sok! He will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. With that, as far as I can tell, we will also be Comrade Pohorec. Mr Pohorec will later present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please, Comrade Sok first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our Group of Members is relatively new in this composition of Parliament. Certainly we do not have the kind of business experience that some of you have been in this House for almost a decade. Well, some of our experiences have certainly been gained up to this point! One of these is that we do not agree that Parliament's agenda changes from moment to moment. It is illogical that Parliamentarians do not know what they will be discussing that day before the meeting. It is even more illogical that ministerial teams sometimes literally fly into this Parliament, sit here and then because the agenda changes, forgives and others come. Well, of course this is not an honor to this House! This nonsense must certainly be eliminated in order to know what is on the agenda. Our views on the Rules of Procedure are intended to be presented by Dr Bernik, but because of such a change in the agenda, he is, of course, absent today and cannot present his views, as he would have if he were involved in this process. So, too, this is due to this constant change in the agenda. I heard on the radio this morning that we are going to be discussing the media law today, in third reading. That's what we agreed, but we passed the law yesterday. But the media report - because they believe what was adopted in Parliament - that this will happen today. So it goes completely to the public, not to the fault of the media, but to our fault, because we are changing the agenda and the work in Parliament from moment to moment. The practice so far has shown that many laws are unjustifiably adopted following a rapid procedure, that these procedures are often unjustifiable and that the emergency needs of the State are not such that they should adopt legislation in such a way. Since laws are adopted quickly, laws are poorly prepared. The debate is often endlessly long because they are ill - prepared and because we are trying to tell ourselves what it would be necessary to fix the marriage and what else to put in place. We also fail many times because it is difficult to convince certain ones. The result of this adoption of laws in Parliament is, if it is known, 77 decisions of the Constitutional Court in three years. With the latter, the Constitutional Court has repealed or completely or only certain parts of the proposals adopted by Parliament and has re-examined them. This increases the scope of Parliament's work and makes procedures even more difficult. It does not seem essential to us how long a person can speak and how many times he talks. It is essential that the law is well prepared and that the professional public participates in the drafting of the law. I'll point out two cases where this has not been respected. The first case is a few days old. This is a law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilization. Despite the fact that the profession in most of this law was opposed, you have thus achieved, by a coalition majority, that the opposition must have been obstructed. But that wasn't enough either! There are no reasons, no arguments have convinced those who have proposed that this should be accepted. That's what you've accepted. Since the matter has taken place as it is and you have not agreed to return the law to the ordinary procedure and to open one broad public debate, this matter has been brought to Parliament. Parliament lasted a very long time and perhaps too little time. I don't know. With this, I would like to prove that it does not matter how long and how many times it is discussed. The most important thing is that the law that is adopted is good and that it is made so that all citizens like it, but not only - I would say - half or many times less. The second case that we have placed on the agenda of this meeting is the Road Traffic Act. Despite the secretariat's warning that we are in no hurry and that we have until the end of the year, the matter has come to an early conclusion. Then, on the infrastructure committee itself, it turned out that the matter was not so clean and that not everyone was involved in the formation of the law. In particular, they did not participate in the unions which this bill will most burden - I would say - and which will determine this law must be enforced in the most consistent manner. For such work, the debate will be resettled to Parliament. Therefore, the procedure shall not be adopted in accordance with any expected procedure. I will not talk about everything they have already said before me, especially from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, because this would be a repetition. That's not my purpose. However, I would like to say that we will also support all the provisions that improve the rules of procedure - the existing rules of procedure need to be corrected in certain elements. We propose that you take into account all those comments made by the secretariat which we consider to be very useful and which Dr Bernik has already pointed out on the Committee on Rules of Procedure. With regard to the comparison with German democracy - and I must say this - I would say that I am not sure that there is a coalition treaty in Germany that states that the coalition will not comply with any amendment of the opposition. This is also part of what we are talking about, for such provisions make no sense. Even if Drnovšek says that this coalition treaty is one of the best in Europe, in the opposition we think that it is bad, that it should be laid down in this treaty to delete, that the coalition should listen to the opposition and, often, to a matter such as the opposition proposes, settle, for we are all working for the good of this country. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure - and I would like to mention this - will not in itself resolve anything. For it is necessary to be aware over and over again that those who rule the nation - I will use this equation - must rule on their knees. The nation is not ruled by pride and pride. In doing so, I will mention the event last week, when, say, you adopted the draft state budget at the night session. As New Slovenia's Member, I learned ten minutes after 10 a.m. on Friday that the discussion on the budget would take place for as long as the budget is adopted. I didn't know that before. The press later told us: "You proposed 70 amendments and you were not in the debate". Certainly not, for most of us had certain other responsibilities and had, unfortunately, to leave the session of Parliament. But I'm not sure that you didn't know in the strongest party that this meeting would take place after six o'clock. This also seems to us to be a violation of the rules of procedure, when this is said to be the case - procedurally, it is proposed and then, by a majority of votes, it is also adopted and Parliament's working time is extended if necessary. Certainly - I think - the current Rules of Procedure do not allow it to that extent or at least I do not understand it in this direction. But I believe it's about playing tricks on current business regulations. What do I mean by that? Let me get this straight. A democratic culture is essential! A nation may have such or different laws. If citizens, and, of course, parliamentarians, do not respect them, then such a good law does nothing. If the law says we're not driving across the red light, we can take that into account or not. If we consider it, it's good. If we do not heed, such a law is of no benefit to us. In doing so, I would like to conclude and call once again on the proposers to take the secretariat's proposals into account for a second reading. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Sok! A colleague of Valentin Pohorec has the floor. He will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Behind him is a colleague of Dušan Wolf for the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! The DeSUS Group has the following position on the proposed Rules of Procedure. The proposed content of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is largely agreed upon. We estimate that the proposal is a suitable basis for a second reading. We believe that this is an improved way of working for the national assembly and their working bodies, in order to rationalise work and decision-making. However, the views and views expressed by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in particular the views of compliance with other laws governing the situation, rights and responsibilities of Members, should be examined. We agree that the applicant should be examined before the second reading and identified and included in the second reading text at his own discretion. We are positive about the proposed role, the leadership of the National Assembly, the tasks and competences of the College of the President of the National Assembly and the standing committees proposed in the Rules of Procedure, their areas of work and their composition. Also until the establishment of other working bodies of their compositions and competences and the transfer of the burden of professional discussions to working bodies. We believe that Member groups or leaders of the parliamentary groups are taking on a greater role. It is the heads of the parliamentary groups or other designated representatives as rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups that are to present the opinions, opinions and decisions of the majority of the members of the individual parliamentary group as the main discussers. Those Members, who do not agree with the majority opinion of their parliamentary group, should be given the opportunity to present their own opinion. The vote, however, shows its limitations on discussions for a reasonable period of time. In our view, it does not limit the right of an individual Member to present his own opinion, but it rationalises our common precious time. We think that we should further define the question of the responsibility and attitude of individual Members to issues that have too often affected the relatively low public assessment of the national assembly. In particular, from the point of view of working discipline, presence, contemplation or non-conclusion, and of mutual relations and respect between the groups and Members of Parliament, regardless of who is in position or opposition. Our Group of Members will support the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. In the second reading, it will try to improve its content with the amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Comrade Pohorec! Mr Dušan Vučko will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I understand that with his performance we will also conclude the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the LDS Group of Members. The Rules of Procedure are specially regulated and binding rules of discussion and decision, adapted to the parliamentary environment, based on the uniform principles of democracy. As such, they reflect the situation in society. The rules are an important component of the political culture of each nation, especially the culture of debate and opposition, and finally the formation of consensus. If this is not possible, the Rules of Procedure shall allow for the only way of civilising the power ratio between the number of votes for or against a solution. Modern rules provide a stable, predictable and efficient course of decision-making, which cannot and must not prevent changes in coalition ties or unpredictable situations. A case-by-case procedure ensures that the needs of a company are as good as possible after legislative regulation and are achieved as quickly as possible. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has been in force since summer 1993, have undergone several amendments: 1994, 1996, 1997 and 2000. However, the basic content attitude, and the solutions derived from it, remained essentially unchanged all the time. The implementation of individual rules of procedure - in particular some parts of the Rules of Procedure - have shown in practice that some essential steps should be taken in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure and thus enable the legislative body to be more responsive. In the LDS Group, we estimate that the applicants follow exactly what they say. The draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly introduces a type of novelty. In particular, I would mention that it introduces positive parliamentary practice into the legislative process; it rationalises the multiple doubling of the same content in the various business institutions; it borders the legislative and executive branch of power within the framework of the constitutionally permissible; it ensures greater independence of the national assembly in the regular legislative process and increases the government's responsibility for the drafting of laws; it introduces a new role of the College of the President of the National Assembly; it also simplifies the establishment of working bodies; and, particularly, it introduces a new legislative procedure. We do not close our eyes in the LDS Group before there will be a number of open issues in the debate. We believe, however, that the basic objective of the draft Rules of Procedure is to increase the efficiency, rationality and quality of the functioning of the National Assembly. In our view, the draft Rules of Procedure are without prejudice to the rights of the parliamentary minority, as it enables it to exercise it in the parliamentary functioning and decision-making. It is true, however, that it lays down new rules that are comparable to those in other countries or parliaments. In the parliamentary group, we assess that the proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is a good basis for a second reading and that is why we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Wolf. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I now give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Colleague Kontic and Kelemina have the right to a timeless discussion. I limit the discussions of others in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to 5 minutes. First, he has the word of colleague Kontič, followed by colleague Kelemin and colleague Barovic of course. I've already said that in the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows, a nice greeting once again. As a member of the National Assembly, I support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I objected to the speedy adoption of the Rules of Procedure, according to the speedy procedure. I agree that the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted in an accelerated manner. I was also convinced by my colleagues and colleagues at the Commission's meeting about the need for amendments. The relationship to the opinions of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs depends on whether this opinion of the Secretariat is written in such a way that we like it or whether it is written in such a way that we do not like it. So whether it's useful for our purposes or not. Let me just give you an example: At a meeting of the Commissioner-General's mandate, where my colleague Jerovšek wanted us to talk about the civil and legal immunity of former colleague Hvalice, I proposed that we obtain an opinion from the Secretariat before that. Mr Jerovšek warned me that this is the result of the former system, the former assembly system and that it no longer belongs to this composition of the national assembly and to this system that we have today. His client colleague, for example Mr Petan, left the Commission because he had received the opinion of the secretariat too late. He got it this morning. The meeting was this afternoon. Since he failed to study it, he suggested that the commission should not be occupied. It is said that in one group of Members within one week, two weeks, two completely different opinions. I agree with the applicants that this needs to be regulated. In all these talkatives about democracy, I am asked the question - as probably most - of what democracy is. Is democracy just an unlimited debate at a meeting of the National Assembly? That too has happened in the past days! There was no general discussion at the meeting of the Commission of the National Rules of Procedure, except for a colleague of Dr Bernik. All these discussions will take place here today at the plenary session of the National Assembly. It is said that the opposition's wish is just the opposite. It is said that the working bodies are suspended and that all matters are transferred to the meeting of the National Assembly. We sit here all day and discuss all things from start to finish. I am afraid that this is the reason - not the desire for all Members to hear what is being discussed at the working body meeting - probably because journalists are much better at monitoring the work of the national assembly than at the work of individual working bodies. Here is the opportunity to express our views and thus come to the media - which is not our basic mission. There are some things that I think are well-ordered by the opposition Members. If I can just name a few. The meeting of the National Assembly will include items of the agenda proposed by the opposition parliamentary groups. These points, if they meet the conditions, will be held at a meeting of the National Assembly. It is said that each group of Members is one point and cannot be withdrawn from the agenda of the meeting. Request for general treatment! We say that there are three remaining hearings or that there are three remaining hearings. That's how it's written. The first is already done by the allocation or transmission of the text by the President of the National Assembly to Members. However, the proposed new Rules of Procedure stipulate that the general debate, the first, shall be held at the request of 15 Members. I estimate that this will mean that we will have a large-scale debate on almost all laws, at least as a rule at the beginning. Later, this may become an exception. At this point, we will have a general hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. Then the opposition's wish to answer the first three opposition questions is answered by the President of the National Assembly. We have already settled this with the present Rules of Procedure, and this will be taken into account by the following. Then a secret third in the opposition's supervisory work bodies, which was a condition for work, for the cooperation and management of parent work bodies and commissions. This was also taken into account by the position. If I look at the state council. At the moment, the State Council was unable to put amendments into second reading. The proposed Rules of Procedure allow this to happen. That is to say, the submission of amendments, their treatment and the definition of amendments to them at the meeting of the home labour body by the State Council. I think that this is important and that it can contribute to the quality of the law and to the fact that the reasons for veto in the state world will be slightly less. The Ombudsman. The Rules of Procedure provide for two annual meetings on the protection of human rights at a meeting of the National Assembly and the possibility for the Ombudsman to raise questions as to why what he asked or demanded of the competent authorities has not been realized. It is also important - in my opinion - that the College obtains these powers, that it determines the time of the debate in advance and that it is clear to everyone how long this debate will last, when it will begin, when it will end and when the vote will take place. It's the only way to make order in the state council. Priority order for dealing with laws. In this way, we will certainly prevent the current blockade of the work of the National Assembly. Once we find out that the government is preparing certain changes, a certain law, we hurry up and put at least four laws on the same subject and thus block the procedure. This would make it impossible for the college to decide which law has the advantage of dealing with it. Emergency procedure. The proposers propose that the only one who can properly assess the reasons for the urgency procedure is the government. In this case, the Government is also the only candidate for an emergency procedure. He also bears much greater responsibility for this. Above all, it is important to stress that it will make sense - which would already be necessary to make better proposals, particularly by the government as a proposaler. If we did this today, there would be fewer problems in the National Assembly. Consistent implementation of these Rules of Procedure pending the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure and new provisions following the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. I also need to say a few words about the work of the Commission, because I was somehow challenged and it was not possible to replicate. If I hadn't explained here to all of you, colleagues and colleagues, I'd probably have a feeling that in Styria we're saying this and probably somewhere else in Slovenia - we're lying. That's why I have to explain this. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Pece said that we acted as a commission at a non-collective meeting. That's not true! The Commission took place only at a time when the Commission was concluding when a quorum was needed. When we became inconclusive, it was at this second session. In summary, we had our first session in March. We have found that we do not have an opinion from the secretariat. Then we postponed the meeting. That is why the Rules of Procedure were not at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. When we got that opinion, we had a committee meeting. Because the opinion came in the morning and because it was extensive, on 19 pages, opposition colleagues felt it was necessary to study it thoroughly. The opinion of the secretariat! They cautioned that changes to the Rules of Procedure or that the text was not well prepared, although the Rules of Procedure had been published to the Rapporteur for some time. Because that didn't work, there was obstruction. Initially, she was quite unhappy that only two opposition colleagues of the business commission had left the meeting. Dr. Bernik waited until the introduction was made on behalf of the candidates, Mr. Anderlič. When Mr Anderlič was finished, Dr Bernick left the session of the Commission and we became inconclusive. At that moment, I suspended the session of the Commission and we continued it when a colleague from DeSUS, Mr Vojko Čeligoj, joined us. This meeting was attended by both journalists and fellow Members of Parliament who participate in this committee and can determine where and on which side the truth is. To expect a broad report from the Commission is, to put it mildly, inappropriate. If there is no general debate at the meeting of the Commission or if only one of the Members discusses it, how should the Commission prepare a comprehensive general report for the meeting of the State Assembly. It can only be written that the discussions at the Commission's meeting on such an important matter - as we are all warning here today - have not been easy. This is also the Commission's report. The Commission’s report was given. And what we got. From here also the position or opinion of the Mandated Immunity Commission, led by a fellow Member, Mr Pece. The Mandated Immunity Commission was of the view that the matter should be further examined and that there are some inconsistencies with the laws. But if a man was mean - I would say - I understand Mr. Pechet's efforts to keep this commission going, and I won't say why. I have had a similar discussion by the Young Slovenia Party when they talk about the need to pay attention to this topic. Of course it's necessary! But at the meeting of the Commission, the Party of Young Slovenia did not participate, neither in the meeting nor in the debate. They announced obstruction to the effect that the Commission had acted in a non-conclusion at its previous meeting. At the same time, their member of the Rules of Procedure Commission excused his absence. It is said that there has been a so-called short contact between the members of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. There's more to the commission's work! At the first meeting of the Commission, we decided to proceed with the drafting of the Rules of Procedure, which had already been before the Commission in the previous composition of the National Assembly. But when we received the introduction of the new Rules of Procedure by the four proponents, we assessed on the Commission that this was a pointless thing to do and that at the moment the Commission should be dealing with a proposal for a Rules of Procedure prepared by its fellow Members or the heads of the coalition group. That is why we have also adopted a decision to keep the Commission or the working group, so that we do not extend it to a smaller group with additional proposals and invite these experts to participate. All these experts have agreed to participate, for the first time we have met and the next meeting will be held following the consideration of this Rules of Procedure today at this meeting of the National Assembly. They are prepared to participate in the preparation of the new text for the second reading. Part of the profession has also participated in all procedures for the preparation of this Rules of Procedure in the previous composition of the National Assembly and will continue its work. Let me also say that these experts have reviewed these texts and have not assessed that they would deviate substantially from what they planned in amending the Rules of Procedure. I support the changes to the Rules of Procedure. I firmly believe that the applicants will take into account all the proposals they will consider to be meaningful and will also draw up a second reading. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much! Before I give my word to my colleague Barovic, he wants a replica of his colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	There are simple accounting equations that allow each member of a specific commission, as well as the President of the Commission, as well as the professional support, to calculate when the Commission is concluded or when the Commission is not concluded. My purpose is not to teach basic accounting operations to other fellow Members of Parliament. I think it makes sense that accounting operations don't work out, they ask about them themselves. To talk about the work of the Commission - and here I will refer to the speaker in front of me, who appointed me despite the fact that I have given my position to the Group of Members. It also touched on the views of the second parliamentary group, the parties to youth. This is a new standard of conduct in this national council, but it's a matter aside. I want to tell you, I will quote the secretariat: the Registry for Legal Affairs and the like, notes that the explanation is very lacking, because important news is not at all justified or insufficient. Furthermore, they note that the relationship between the new business arrangements and the question of legal support to the decisions of the national assembly is unclear. Furthermore, on the Commission's mandate-immunity, concerns about non-compatibilities with the law on Members. Furthermore, to the debate, which is particularly marked in the bold hard press under the general debate, only Dr Jože Bernik, who also gave a negative opinion, took note of the word. There's no explanation for the obstruction. Nowhere is it explained that, at the time of the meeting, I and Mr Petan of the Social Democratic Party have left the meeting. That we simply caused unconscionableness. But this element doesn't matter to you either. I believe so. Most of the business committee is composed of the parties who propose an amendment. And second, Mr. Anderlich, please! - and another matter which is very important on this last list of the Rules of Procedure Commission: despite the findings of the secretariat on the legislation, despite the interested working body and despite the debate which was only one, and despite the obstruction, the Business Commission concludes that the Rules of Procedure are a suitable basis for further consideration. All the elements - all the content elements that took place on the business committee - indicate that this is not a suitable basis. But this is another proof that this national council, indeed, and the commission, is acting as a farce. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	Just for an explanation, Comrade Peca, because this objection appears several times. Member groups do not replicate themselves in their presentation positions, or Members may be identified to any position in the general debate. Comrade Kontic, do you want to debate, replicate? The replica, yes, but short. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	Yes! The replica will be very short because you've already told the president! Mr Pece, I suggest that you also read this Rules of Procedure, which are now in force and that you do not speak without arguments. Of course, the replica is possible in the debate of Members and Members, including leaders or those who speak on behalf of the groups of Members. About mathematical equations! Mr. Pece seems to have misunderstood her. This equation, which you don't really need the equation for. Half of 13 is 7. Therefore, there is no need for great mathematical knowledge. But it seemed to you that seven of them were left or that we were still seven inside and that Dr. Bernik had left the Commission only after Mr. Anderlič had given his introduction. That's what my replica was meant for. A two-thirds majority, but there you might also be able to follow the formula, because there you would like someone to find out wrong about what a two-thirds majority needs. However, in the general majority, it is enough to divide by two and count in the hall present and determine whether the commission is concluded or not. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich has the word of his colleague Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In life, I respect the principle that we need to learn from past experiences. I honestly and truly like that colleagues in the ruling coalition, and especially in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, learn democracy in the Romans. Unfortunately, they only got to the first hour, which speaks of the handling of the thumb, and this one was in the domain of the emperor. You know, the Romans had a lot more in democracy. With sharp stones in their mouths they sought a clear and clear word, I speak metaphorically. They wanted to outvote the waves so that their word would have power. Most importantly, the senators respected both the people and the emperor. There's two times someone beats their opponent. The first is that someone is better in all respects and wins. The second is that you push your opponent, step on his shoulder, and on his head, so that you are bigger, better, and more important. This path - believe me - has never been won. Today and here - I am sure - that all 90 Members would agree with me in the following statement: it is always better to have 90 Members elected from the people, in a different number of disputes in this House as if 90,000 people were arguing in the street. That is why this Parliament is. Not for the argument, for what colleague Sašo Peče said in the opening speech of the Slovenian National Party Group - to exchange opinions, we also bang them, we find a consensus and a solution that is good - and if you want - for us and for all the Slovenian people. It is true that with the rules of procedure or that you will be able to partially silence political opponents in this House, opposition parties. However, I am sure that you will not be able to silence two million Slovenians who did not and will not forget this democracy in 1990. If we are very specific: There are regulations in production where it takes 10 seconds to make a screw. It is not possible in Parliament to provide that we can speak or deal with a law or a legal act for three hours or five hours and that the next one begins in five hours. It's true that democracy is the will of the people. It is true that the people gave the majority of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the last parliamentary elections. But it didn't give up everything. Most of it did. Although we are only four in our parliamentary group, we have also received a few votes and the rest of our colleagues in the smaller parliamentary groups as well. I certainly agree with Mr Anderlic that the rules of procedure must be drawn up and adopted before the elections and not after the elections. There is also something that needs to be smartly adapted to the situation in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, but not in the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, Italy, wherever. But we can, of course, summarize everything well.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please! Before that, there are two replicas of Mr Barovic's implementation. First Mr. Leopold Kremjar, then Mr. Miran Potch!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much! So replicating something that you're sure is not what was said is basically very easy or very difficult. I would like to say that I see no reason for fear - I speak generally. That's right! Democracy is just that people have chosen us the way we are. The second part of this democracy is that this national assembly, with most of us sitting here thinking - I hope - will determine what the rules of procedure will be. I am sure that this majority - because everyone thinks of himself as a Member - will do so wisely. I just want to replicate one thing. I beg you kindly - but I speak for myself now and for my own sake - not constantly instilling some indiscretions, fomenting some other interests, and I do not know what kind of interests. I can assure my colleagues and my colleague Barovic that when I vote on the Rules of Procedure, I myself do not fully agree with all the proposed matters, and I will also say this when I really want to vote fairly on this. Talking about machines, I don't know what, of course it makes no sense and it doesn't have any basis. Let us try to trust ourselves, who are sitting here, who are willing to do something honest. I mean it, and that's what I'm saying. But if you think otherwise, it is possible - of course, also because of this - because you want it to be different and because you are doing it with some other purpose in your discussions. I can take it that way. I don't want to take it that way. Give once - please - if it is possible to at least internally and in mind, if it goes, remove at least me from these stories, where everything is somehow packed into some packages. I'm not an integral part of any package, either. I want to think with my head. That's what I'm gonna do. If I see for a moment in your eyes that you accept what I'm saying, I will be very pleased. And believe me, that's what I mean. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Run! Run! Run!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much! I agree with all those who believe that the new rules of procedure are necessary. The same with those, or even more, who say that his acceptance is more than a difficult task and that we should take the time and willingness to explain each other’s viewpoints, because then we will have to carry it out. I would not want this to happen to us that, due to the unwillingness to discuss peacefully our idea of what the outcome of the Rules of Procedure will be, they would be very fundamentally wrong. We're probably going to make a mistake, but to be too essential. However, I would like to say that whether we are willing to do this or not, it is not just up to the coalition and the proponents. It's up to us, but not just us. In this part, if there is something to tell us, then let us consider whether the opposition's approach to when it was not ready to begin a serious discussion at the home work body on the opinions of the secretariat, on each individual article, on what the debate should give, or is it a good trip? To speak very in principle about what it will or will not mean without arguments can mean big words. But it's not necessarily true. I'll say, let's say, some things that could be reversed from those warnings you're giving now, what's going to happen to the opposition. I, for example, argue that some of the provisions in this Rules of Procedure, which can be very useful, but they severely restrict the coalition. First of all, the government must no longer make amendments to its own laws. Think of what this means in practice so far. Absolutely high-quality suggestions. The most amendments so far have always been received by the state council from its own government. That's not possible anymore. This is a huge constraint that requires quality law. Or will we, at some stage, reject marriages because they will be unquality? Only twice may the order of the sitting be changed. There's no more overtime. Who's proposing changes? We who have most of the majority. Who's limiting who? We are limiting ourselves because we will have to programme work in such a way that we know that things will be ready. This is our own restriction, not the restriction of the opposition. Because we always have a majority. We always say that it will work until six, by eight, now this point has a head start, then it has a second. Many times, like the opposition, we make it difficult for you to prepare yourself properly. Emergency procedures - I do not think they are so limited, but they are more than they were in the current rules of procedure. However, if we implement the definitions, we will also be doing much more. Extraordinary sessions. These are all things that mean the restriction of the coalition, not the opposition. The main issue of the legislative process, which is making important progress, is, in my opinion, still whether we will be able to ensure that proposals are of better quality, that at some point in time - I do not think this year - we will be in a position to adopt fewer laws a month. Because as long as we have to accept 30, no rationalization will do us much good. And that we will adopt laws so that there will be fewer amendments at the National Assembly. Because then it will be possible to focus on three or five issues and to hold a serious debate on them. But if the 100 - article marriage has 100 or 200 amendments, it will go away, and we will all no longer know what we are talking about and what we are deciding. Even in this part, a new proposal for a legislative procedure can make progress if we want to implement it. As many issues can be clarified in the working body, whether included or not in the amendments, this will require more work and more time there, but less will be done in the national assembly. Let me finish. The College is given important powers. These powers represent an absolute, substantially increased role of the coalition. Yes! That's right! But they also mean a much greater responsibility and expectation that things are much more coherent than they have ever been. Otherwise, there will be a constant tension that no one will ever want. Voting alone does not regulate things. It seems to me that the prepared rules of procedure are not correctly understood in the way you point out that they aim only to reduce certain rights and to prevent them from being problematic. After all, in the second reading of the amendments, we will be able to limit the debates, but not to speak only once, because you will be able to speak with each article. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you so much, buddy Run! My friend Patche has a replica of his buddy Creamer, if I'm not mistaken. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Speaking of finger, Mr Kremjar, up or down - mentioned by my colleague Bogdan Barovic, this has been taught by our current practice, the practice of a new mandate, when we looked, at least four of us, turned to the left and saw right in your ranks how you were directed for, or against, or for. That's what practice taught us. So allow us, at least, this opinion. One can learn the most from practice. From the fact that I will not speak and will not play visionary as some in this national assembly, I will also tell you what I am afraid of because you mentioned in your speech that there is no reason to fear. I am afraid that, as a member of this national assembly, I will not have, or under the new rules of procedure, as amended in the area of the budget, I do not even have the possibility of making amendments. That seems like a big enough reason to be afraid. I can no longer fulfil my basic parliamentary function, which is to influence the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of proposals and amendments, which we call amendments. Yes, I think that is a strong enough argument for any member of this national assembly to take a stand for fear. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much! Kolga Barovic has a replica, and then they are reported: colleague Anderlič and in a row. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you! I'll be very brief. I didn't say it. I'll say it in advance. When I drove to work this morning, I heard on the national radio the journalist's words on today's Rules of Procedure, and he said, "But who popularly called it the law on impaling the opposition's conceitor." [[...]] I repeat! That was the word of a journalist who wrote it, a reader of the news, who said it on the national radio. That's not my word. That's not what I said. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much! First Comrade Anderlich, then Comrade Kremjar. You're backing out of the debate? Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Cretaceous fellow!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	I'll be alone for a while. These fingers were not an integral part of my discussion or replica, nor were they a clue. I think the journalist who used it used it, of course, because he's already heard. Apparently, he's a good journalist, so he could tell plastic what we were talking about. However, I think the problem is that some things that may have been needed for a number of years in this House to be set up in the Rules of Procedure because - we all find - of hard work, sometimes of impossible work, to then declare it to be a pusher, even before the matter is accepted. The result is that journalists, and this is good journalists, then they plastically describe this story. That's the problem. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	Comrade Yuri, behind him colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you, President! Well, already that I refer to the right to object or to a replica - to come to the floor because I would like to say some things - suggests that the rules of procedure need to be changed and that the institution of the replica should also be limited through these changes. I won't be long. I just want to give you a heads-up. First of all, a replica - of course, if we are very correct - of course, of course, to my colleague Pječet. I don't know why Members can't contribute to the budget with their amendments. As far as I know, 216.a. allows amendments to be tabled until the first meeting of the parent working body. So that they are righteous and able to co-form the budget. Secondly, colleague Barovic said that it was necessary to learn from experience in the past. I think it is our experience of past mandates that dictates the need for change. I would add that it is also necessary to learn from the experience of others. At least those who sometimes have the opportunity to assist and see how the debates and work of other parliaments are going on - I have had this opportunity and the honour to participate in similar substantive discussions of the Danish, Dutch, Italian Parliament, European Parliament - and we all learn that democracy is also a order, that democracy is also a synthesis, that democracy is also to respect the opinions of another, the opinions of others and respect the rules of the game. Our Parliament, and past experience have shown, has at times turned into a debate club that has been difficult to manage, because the most capable president, from the President to the Vice-President, has found it difficult to elude what deviates from the subject of attention and consideration. Sometimes in replication, replicas on replicas, entering other topics that have nothing to do with our work, there are tensions, insults, inappropriate words and so on. If I go back to the experiences of others and talk about other parliaments and other democracies that have developed a system that they have developed over centuries of experience, we see that discussions there are significantly more effective and that there is actually a real substantive debate, and this is also shown by our experience - it takes place in the working bodies. It forms a material that is the subject of finalisation in the National Assembly or in the plenary. It's supposed to be like this with us. There is much more demagogism on the working bodies, the substantive entry into the matter as defined in the form of law, and Parliament's work is significantly facilitated. So I don't see any reservations to these changes. I've been defending these changes for a long time. I've never gone down in detail. But if these changes contribute to faster work, more efficient work, they are welcome. Let the last thought - surely we have all noticed that the new logistics of our National Assembly, the new technology, allows for faster work than in the previous Chamber. There's not so much romance behind the stage anymore. We're talking from our towns. It's less of an insult - I have to admit. But there's also a huge amount of unnecessary time spent on meaningless things. I think that if we accept these changes, this efficiency will certainly be better, and we will all be happy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thanks, buddy Yuri. Comrade Juban, behind him is Comrade Švagan, Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that we have moved away from the content of the Rules of Procedure and that they are talking about things that may not be involved. But to supplement some of the phrases and so on, the story of the talker didn't come from a reporter, but from one of our colleagues. I think this term was used in a previous reference. According to my personal assessment, this term is not appropriate because such an object is intended for other living beings and not for people - and probably not for Members. Furthermore, it may also reply to colleague Barovic that this non-democratic party of liberal democracy does not have a majority in Parliament, but it has the most. This is in one strange way, as he says, that we will not also oppress the two million Slovenians who, in these approximately eight years, have endured this pressure with one slight break and once again give the party the most in the electoral system, which this party has also supported, but one average Member of Liberal Democracy has gathered as many votes as the entire National Party together or all four probably more. This party defended the electoral system, which allowed colleagues from this party to be in this Parliament at all. Thank you very much for the warning, though not verbally, but I think it was necessary to say so. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you! My friend Schwagan has the floor. After him, my friend Wolf, and then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'd replicate the pop party's SNS. The player's games are famous. Why don't we play? I have the feeling, as a new Member, that we are not discussing the rules of procedure today, but that it is more pre-electional or a permissive meeting of the opposition or position. At what level to replicate, most SNS members? This is what I always wonder; I would say today, when we discuss this, that when they discuss and read the LDS or the ruling coalition, they should sometimes look at the mirror that will give them their message. When you speak, Mr Pece, about the budget, when Mr Barovic - when he talks about democracy, about honesty - voted in favour of you on 20 April at 23.08 to end the meeting, he voted on two paths. As Mr Barovic says in his exposition that this path is never won and this dual pressure has not been won. The use of democracy is also used by you, Mr Pece, when we had parliamentary questions, to discuss the SRD, new jobs and the maintenance of trade unions. In short, when we talk about principle, let us be principled, all of us, and let those who do what is right or dishonest, of course, when we talk about democracy. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	My friend Wolf has a word now. After him, colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much! I'm going to replicate my colleague Barovich because I don't understand something, and I'd like to ask for an explanation. I do not want to comment on the press statement or his debate in the part where he summed up a statement by a journalist concerning the impalement of the opposition. As long as I get to know cinology and I've been a member of the Cinology Society for a long time, and I have a dog, I know that it's meant for a dog to not bite someone. Yes, a dog that can still have bark, but it can growl even easier. So every fear is too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	I suggest that in metaphors, which are always or often a thank-you topic, we are careful not to let anyone here or outside feel some hurt for those. Please! I also ask that we try - without, of course, anyone restricting the right to debate - to hold a debate on the draft Rules of Procedure and to allow us to decide on it at first reading today. My colleague Sok has the floor, my friend Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! So I have two short replicas, one for the implementation of Mr Yuri and one for Mr Juban. About Yuri's lecture. He told us what democracy looks like in European parliaments. I agree with him. However, nowhere in the present Rules of Procedure does it say that such conduct of meetings and such part of Parliament cannot be carried out under the existing Rules of Procedure. I have already said, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the rules of procedure in force are already in force in many ways. That is why there is also one lack of confidence on the part of the opposition.In our subconscious, the word from the former Yugoslavia somehow sat down when instead of "imposing" they used the word "super-smart". That's what we're talking about. Because this is what we are seeing together with great mistrust. Regarding work in the working bodies - as Mr Juri said, most of the work should be done there. I agree with that, too. However, if I look at how this work takes place today in our working bodies, when MEPs are called on their cell phone many times, "come," they are said to "take care of the conclusion", and then they do come; I find that the alternate Members who have not looked at the material have not studied it at all. They come in and raise their hands. It's also a reflection of that kind of work. So, what did we do with it? Nothing, accepted, raised hands, confirmed, and we're going cheerfully forward. About Mr. Juban, who was talking about how many votes someone got. All I'd tell him is that it's nothing unusual. If you're watching TV tonight, what can you see? You can see Mr Kučan, Mr Drnovsk, and some LDS minister. If you're listening to the radio, it's the same thing. If you read newspapers, it's the same. You've denied us a fund for media pluralisation with your left hand. As long as the Slovenian image in the media space is such, you will really get 40 percent and more by then, and by this time you will have that majority. Then, too, in the public voice of the opposition will hear what is not being heard today, and it is likely that one LDS member will not gather more than all four members of the national party together. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	I think I will act entirely in the rules of procedure if I call on the National Assembly to stick to the subject of the debate and this debate on the rules of procedure. Please, everyone, so all of us, do this consistently. Otherwise, I will be forced to take the word back in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First my colleague Barovich, then my colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you! You said part of what I was thinking. Now you've heard how many discussions have been over. It's not my fault if it hurts to talk about someone trying to keep someone quiet. Therefore, please, Mr Juban, we were not talking about oppression, we were talking about silence. These two concepts are very important for the Slovenian people. It's different! Look, please, a magnetogram! If we are already talking about the removal of the rights of the Rules of Procedure, who, under this Rules of Procedure, is referring to the restriction of replicas? If you want, I'll be very specific. Who says we should give a speech if we don't come in writing? Who will read this written form of our speeches and opinions? Who's gonna take that into account? I could also mention it because we will speak very specifically under the rules of procedure. So, my dear fellows, I'm sure you'll read your magnetogram. I have not offended anyone in my speech, which is the basic right of a parliamentarian, so you do not have to fall below that level. Honest congratulations to the end indeed to the one who has collected much more address than the entire Slovenian National Party. Nevertheless, there are so many people who trust us to be in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	A colleague of Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	To be honest, I am pleased that you Members of Liberal Democracy today have received a green light so that you can speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	I ask that we stick to the subject of discussion. I'm serious! So far, I have not intervened in the debate, not in these or in other points. There was no need for that either. It could be today. Please, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Secondly, as regards the play of the Institute of Initiatives and Questions. That's right! I'd be happy to talk about the problem of the unemployed at any time. Whether this will be in the form of an initiative or a question. I think that the talk on the privatisation of the SRD, which employs 9,000 people and according to the social partners, will lose 2,500 people. Yeah, I'll try to talk about it all the time. You name it right or wrong. I think it makes sense for all of us to help these people. So much for the abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Initiative and questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much!I understand that no one wants to replicate anymore. Then you have a performance by your colleague Kelemin and his colleague Podobnik. My friend Kelemin? You wanted to discuss even though you were on behalf of earlier? [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yeah. You also have this option. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, all of you! Notwithstanding the previous debate on behalf of the parliamentary group, because I did not go into detail - I would like to make a few comments on this important instrument on my own personal behalf - it is said that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are amended, which is in the procedure. In every case, I always try to define something in principle first. Because I think that the rules of procedure are also first of all a valuable definition and that the replicas that you have given to some Members are not irrelevant, I would ask the honourable President to take this into account. It is also a value definition. I think it is necessary for this to be made clear and that we also know what someone in their heart thinks. However, I will also this time, given my general definition - as many times as I have defined it, think that the Institute of Members - as I have understood it, from the previous term and this continues in this mandate, is abused. Abused! I really tell you that before I became a member of Parliament, I did not imagine that the institution of a Member is as small and as abused and as discredited as it is in this country. I didn't see that coming. I am extremely disappointed at all that is happening, and especially now, with this change in the rules of procedure - perhaps even the positive elements that have been in the fact that the opposition Member was also entitled to speak his mind and his valuable definition - will not be possible in the future. Mr Anderlič used to say to each other that there might be a lot of demagogic words today, and I don't know what else. I really want to tell you that I do not want to in this debate or in general, and I do not want to work in this direction at all. I really want every debate and every thought I make here to be constructive and well-intentioned. I don't want a demagogic debate. Our Group of Members doesn't want to do that either. But if, by chance, the weaknesses that a person has inside of him occur, I apologize in advance. Why did I say our group of Members? Because our parliamentary group has also decided in our new programming documents - I hope you have read them - that it will no longer fall for your provocations - which you have so far triggered with various things, such as collaboration, Avnej and so on - that we know who triggered them on what occasions. We're not going to fall for these things anymore. For us, the issues we need to agree on as politicians are of greater importance. So history is discussed by historians, but politics is the future. These are decisions for the future. We will discuss this in our country in the coming period. This is a firm decision, and this will also be confirmed by our congress. This is certainly an extremely important direction. This means that our work, the work of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, in this National Assembly will be constructive and rational to the maximum, also below. Because of these definitions, the principle definitions that will be adopted by the party's highest authorities there is no reason to try in any way to correct any of the irregularities that I have previously mentioned - the inefficiency of the government, the coalition and the possible leadership of the national assembly or the shortcomings that have been identified in practice and which could contribute to the resolution of a number of important issues. My personal rule is always that I try to overcome the bad. I think you've noticed that in my efforts. Maybe I used to be demagogic. It's just like I said, man's weaknesses. However, in the extreme case, that is all I always want. But this is also often misused. When a person says the most honestly one thing, someone puts you on a donkey bench and makes fun of you. And these are the media; and then the media do this, and unfortunately that's the way it is. I also always support the view that the need for legislation and all the rules are said to be, standards, values to be interpreted positively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly can also be interpreted positively, respected colleagues and colleagues. However, there is always an attempt to find negative elements in the rules of procedure or what is not written at all and which are not at all appropriate. That's a weakness. That's a weakness. If everyone were to strive for a positive interpretation, both the rules of procedure and other rules, the value I am firmly convinced would be completely different from today. Let me simply define myself to certain chapters, certain amendments to the new Rules of Procedure. I said earlier that our Group of Members will try to accept all the positive elements proposed in this Rules of Procedure by understanding and constructively, all the weaknesses and constraints that do not lead to improvement and reduction of procedures and which cannot achieve the final objective, we will oppose. One of these positive things is, in our opinion, certainly a reduction in procedures and a transfer of debate, there is a substantive debate on individual issues on the working bodies. But respectable colleagues - here I also have to tell you and I think you will agree with me - in which case something else needs to be arranged. One of the fundamentals and basics is - and I hope that Mr President will say so - to ensure normal conditions for the work of working bodies. At present, normal conditions for working bodies are not established. Sometimes we bump into each other in places where there's not enough room. Climate conditions aren't normal either. We can't do this! If we are going to move these things into the working bodies, we also need to do some other things to create basic conditions. I think you agree with that. That's all well-intentioned. I don't mean any of this in any way negative. These things need to be considered and tried to ensure that they can be done normally. We do not have the conditions for this at present in this National Assembly. We don't! There will be a real need to think carefully about how to ensure these normal working conditions. The work plan was discussed, but the long-term planning of the work of the National Assembly was not only timely, but also substantive. That's what my colleague Anderlich was talking about. Personally, and I also think that our Group of Members respects this definition, this principle absolutely respects and wants it to be achieved. For the record, this national council is going to happen. But, dear colleagues, colleagues of the coalition, let me know if we are able to do this: government, coalition, leadership of the National Assembly? Mr. Anderlich wondered who would do it. Certain things are already written down, but to this positive interpretation of all the rules and attitudes and cultures, if you want, it is known that this responsibility lies with those who are the bearers of this responsibility. Let's secure it. We don't object, we don't oppose it. Just let me guarantee it! How? I don't really know either. But sit down and let me handle this. I'm sure we'll support that. It's all on your shoulders, of course. We'll help constructively if we can. It is positive, for example, also the transparency of the Rules of Procedure if it is established with new amendments. We certainly agree that certain topics are somehow concentrated and formed in some order, that this is not dispersed by the rules of procedure, that specific provisions are not sought and that the rules of procedure are significantly more understandable. The positive element is also that, at each meeting of the National Assembly, if I am not mistaken, you will correct me, I apologize for two points from the opposition. As far as I understand these things, I don't know if I'm good enough - there's no key to who's gonna have the right to propose this. I don't think that's a good solution. There may be some increase in power and the role of the college to abuse - according to my opinion. In my opinion, it would be a significantly better solution that, what I know, every parliamentary group - let's say, this is one of the cases - at each other's meeting, for example, we have the right to propose at least one point. It may happen that if there are two points, a group of Members will not be in line until the third meeting. However, there should be a specific right in the Group of Members. Whether we will take into account the size of the Group is another issue. I think that: just two points of opposition at each meeting is not the best solution because there is no key to how this rule will be defined. The absolute positive element is also that the order of agenda items can only be changed twice at a particular meeting. I think that's what's suggested. If you stick to it, it's extremely positive. If you provide this with a better organization, we will surely be happy and happy to support it. This provision - which speaks of a college deciding which draft law will take into account, for example, if more legal proposals are tabled in the procedure, it is not, in my opinion, correct. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself have been a member of the Rules of Procedure Commission in the previous term, and we have discussed this issue a lot. As has already been said, we have spent quite some time making a radical change or making a new rule of procedure. I think we've even been to the island and we've been very critical of this. We sat for two days or three days and discussed these things. We have also discussed this issue. Such a solution that, due to the voting and other negative elements which we think are contained in this College, or in the procedure of the National Assembly, the proposal which would seem most appropriate to the College is not appropriate. If so, we will disregard the order of the deposit. The debate then, even last year, or in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure in the previous mandate, went in this direction in order to take account of this because of a whole series of proposals, because of the blockade - as is now possible - of one proposal being tabled, but to try to take account of all those proposals, the other proposals and the amendments made by others. Therefore, when considering one law, regardless of the number of initiatives put forward, all initiatives that would be included and tried to be included in the proposal to be considered would be considered. At least this should be allowed, not then to be prevented by a reduced procedure of this matter, or by a group, to resolve a proposal for a solution, perhaps even an important issue. That could happen, too. Thank you, President! I would like to try to present some things, our views - even though we have made a whole series of transitional proposals, which, of course, we do not know if the National Assembly will accept them. We are still in a great dilemma, in fact, how to vote in the end. We've made our transition proposals. There are other questions. I'll try to shorten them. I am not going to quote everyone now, because we will also discuss these things in more detail at the working body and at the plenary session. We cannot agree in any way that the College would have the right to vote in accordance with the size of the Group of Members and that one representative would have taken the right to decide on behalf of a larger number of Members. We also ask the secretariat: Is this even constitutional? Is it constitutional at all that someone could decide on some important decisions - and now the college should not have this power - on behalf of other Members. The other thing is, if there's a legal basis for this, if there's a constitutional basis for it, and so on. These things need to be thoroughly examined and determined whether this is in accordance with the Constitution. That's what it would be. We'll continue to point that out. It's just my personal comments. Look! For the last time, I warned Mr Anderlic when I did not wish to raise the question of the Member of Parliament in protest. I also told him that this had to be resolved. So, my assessment is - and that's when I said it - that the Institute of Parliament is also abused in this National Assembly. That's a fact. I can prove that to you. This year I deliberately went to this institute so that I could prove in the Rules of Procedure to this National Assembly that this institution was simply misused. Look! My belief is that the oral question should be answered by government representatives at a meeting of the State Assembly if, or if, one day earlier, such a question was announced. We can also agree on another deadline. We can agree on a deadline, maybe three days. For those questions that will be announced three days earlier, say, the government must answer. It cannot be as it is now that the government simply does not answer and then says, we will reply in writing. Then they don't answer in three months. The deadline is not respected in order to respond up to the deadline, to respond or not to respond at all. This has happened many times. This institute must also be further developed. Now I've been working on how, if I'm not satisfied with the oral response, how to proceed. Since an important issue that is important for the country and needs to be addressed, the National Assembly and the Government should seek an institution to decide on an important issue raised by a Member of the National Assembly, that is to say someone who should have some weight, some influence, a national assembly and a government. That's not possible until now. Look, I got an answer, say, orally first. Then I wanted the working body to discuss it. The president of the National Assembly or his advisor replied that I must first ask for a written answer. Then I asked for a written reply, and when I got it, I asked again to ask for a debate because I was not satisfied with the answer, the debate in the working body. He told me again that something was not in accordance with the rules of procedure. That's not how it can be! These things must be clearly defined and a Member must have the right to bring the question which he has started to a final realization, to the final effect that it is known and to adopt a final position of the Government and Parliament on an important issue. In such a way as is happening now, we cannot resolve important issues in the country because the Member does not have the right to conclude a question to the end. However, if it proposes, of course, on the basis of the existing rules of procedure, a 48-hour debate in the National Assembly, it is over-voted and cannot trigger this debate. Similarly, if it triggers it on the working body as an important point under different circumstances, the working body decides not to discuss it. Please! I don't want that kind of abuse in the National Assembly! Look! You are talking about a comparison with the European Parliaments. Go there, ask European parliamentarians, you understand, because we are talking about a long tradition! Where any Member or public institution or anyone in the country raises an important question or draws attention to a mistake, a drawback, whatever, is announced by the media, discussed by institutions and made a decision, a solution. We don't have that. It's an abuse of democracy, an institute of voting. You're being democratic. This is not democratic or democratic, but it is not democratically democratic. It is morally not democratic to exclude an important issue by voting and not to discuss it. Therefore, it would be extremely good - that is what we have also given in our accompanying proposal - that, and I hope, I think there is now some definition of the house so that the questions of the Members are passed on. This time I am talking about the questions sent. I firmly believe that, as a real Member, with the values I spoke about earlier, I will not allow the Slovenian public to observe and look at me so that I or anyone here would speak nonsense. Do you understand? Only then would it be right for the Slovenian public to have access to the speeches of individual Members. On the basis of the value elements, the public could decide whether or not a Member has confidence in them. That's an essential element. Here we try to ignore or prevent in any way and do not allow the Slovenian public to create its own positive or negative opinion on any question or definition of an individual or a parliamentary group. That's not right. That's not right, and that's preventing the basics, in my view, of democracy. These are the basic values we ignore. Tido, because we are only trying to limit or shorten the plenary session of the National Assembly, is rationalising. In my opinion, it would be extremely important to allow the meetings of the National Assembly to be broadcast on TV, because the people were just supposed to generate a public opinion on what was going on in the National Assembly. I firmly believe that that Member who wants to maintain his pride, his role and the trust of people will act in accordance with these values and will not allow himself to be discredited by the people. This is the only way of direct democracy for people to decide and value. This is the institution of the question. I hope that this issue will be resolved in this revision of the Rules of Procedure and also in other matters which I have talked about in principle. I'm sorry. There's only two things I need to say. Like a replica. Today there have been many criticisms, painful blockades, talkatives about democracy, etc. I think it's an institute, a replica, even today, for example, maybe it was misused, but this is, I think, the only element that might bring a little freshness into the National Assembly, maybe even a little controversy, etc., is that not just some monotonous fairy tale will be told or a story, and it's all over and even less interested in anyone. If transfers were enabled, these replicas would certainly be of great quality. That's my belief. I hope you'll take these things into account in the future. Otherwise, I'm saying that maybe the replicas are a little bit limited and that maybe they're also trying to rationalize in some way. But I don't want them to quit. Oh, no. With this, we would make a Parliamentary Assembly in which there would be only one report and there would be no more life in Parliament. I'm going to touch just one more thing from my point of view, from my beliefs-legislative procedure. Otherwise, today it was about rationalising the legislative process. If we're talking about this rationalisation, I really didn't imagine when I was still an outside observer of the National Assembly, that in the National Assembly, for example, Members could decide a number of irrelevant things, or, somewhere, there must be a "in" and a "bike" and a "pike" and so on. Because of the poor preparation of laws, perhaps even over 100 amendments, we are wasting our time because of the decision-making process itself, voting for and against. These procedures are not in order. The system on this has also been much talked about - the voting system is not good. It should be repaired. The presence is sometimes not the one recorded on the screen and individual votes are invalid. Improper! This should be changed, as others have suggested. I myself have considered that when voting, we should take into account the definition of: yes, no, no, no, no. [[If someone resists]] . The number of these is the presence. There can be nothing else. So if I wasn't up for it, if I wasn't up against it, I would have held it back and pushed it back. Please! If you want to do something different, do it, but it's illegal. That's not fair, that's not fair! Such decisions are null and void for me. That happens a lot. I said, it's not because of me, we can accept, Slovenia won't crash or the world. But if the public sees it, they may think: If they do so in Parliament, then we can do something our own way. The other thing is that if I had the influence and the power to change the legislative process, then I might decide, at an extreme stage, that Parliament should not vote on all these small things at all. Not at all! The legislative process should be amended. Members should address important social issues, resolving and proposing these issues. If a Member makes a proposal that has a weight that is acceptable to that State, one should remember or respect it and also do everything possible to resolve a question positively. We don't have this right, and we don't have this option today. These procedures are long and there is no final realization at all. Dear colleagues, colleagues - without anyone to be offended - I really don't want to. But, admit all, even in yourself, in your heart, that many times because of such extensive work that the National Assembly has in fact in recent times and even in the previous period and due to extremely professional content Members as a whole, we are not all able to understand or understand these things. We decide essentially on the basis of knowledge of individuals or on the basis of directives we receive from somewhere. That's not good! We should fix these things, think for ourselves about how. But in fact, we should give it the opportunity for experts, professionals and everyone who understands the subject to be convinced that in this joint building we will only find some specific content that deals with, what does this mean for all the different impacts, what does this mean for people, for the country and so on. These things, political decisions, you see, could also try to solve certain details if we were very familiar with them, and all the other things we should leave to our professional services and professional advisors, the general public, the general public. They are supposed to say, but we should make more decisions, in fact politically and in accordance with the knowledge we have acquired as representatives of the people. We're supposed to decide on these value systems. These are my main remarks. Now, as far as this is concerned, I don't know. I will try to reach out to you on specific additions, transitional proposals. I hope that the National Assembly will adopt these proposals with understanding in this direction in order to try to make our Rules of Procedure a modern procedure that is comparable to other European developed democracies. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Comrade Juban wanted to give a brief replica. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	I'll have a short replica. If I am trying to concentrate my colleague Kelemina's thinking, I must say that I almost fully agree with him that he somehow confirms the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, in my opinion, even extends certain matters in an area which are not covered by these amendments. I was thinking about the replica in the introduction when he said about Parliament's reputation, how surprised he was. I don't think this reputation is what we'd want. It's not far. Even with the efforts and changes that are taking place in the current composition, we are not able to get it to a higher level. In conclusion, I also understood that the area of replicas also needs to be regulated differently. That's what my colleague Yuri was talking about. What's the problem? Let us remember the previous term. In the case of one point of view, 34 replicas. What happened in public? The people have been appalled. Then bring it to the public. Members do not do anything other than argue, personally account and care for wages; that is the public impression. The way that this enables is not good, nor does it contribute to the disrepute of this House. Excess replicas also lead to personal accounting. What's been happening to us almost today. These matters need to be handled differently. If I know this case is restricted, I'll also think about what I'm going to say, because I won't be able to replicate forever. I'll try to be careful not to challenge a opponent who could then "kill me" and so on. So, we're almost in agreement. These matters need to be changed in these segments. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The last speaker is likely to be Mr Podobnik prior to the suspension of the meeting. Although there is also a report of a colleague of Cukjat behind him, then my list of applicants is exhausted. Comrade Squirrel!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you for saying, for this honor, that I'm the last speaker before my usual break. First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the general situation in which we are dealing with such an important document today, which is called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Just my personal opinion: As a rule, pre-festive days are not the best trip for a quality debate. However, this is the problem for those we are discussing, i.e. Members and Members of Parliament. Second. When I listened to my colleagues and colleagues earlier - especially my colleagues - I had the impression that, in one part, the debate went beyond the content itself. However - despite his debt - colleague Kelemina convinced me with his yet positive approach. I'm sure colleague Kelemin has read the entire text. However, his debate was substantive. Finally, you said you hoped that part of your debate would be included in another reading. Knowing the rules of procedure, provided that we adopt a decision saying that we are following or considering the debate. If that is not the case, it will depend only on our goodwill. It was also said that "in this strange building" and so on, the contents themselves. In this strange building, which is a beautiful building of the National Assembly, we are the content of people, Members and Members. This positive approach would briefly discuss the content itself, including one that is a signatory to the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First time. The professional basis for this document is the material prepared by a team of experts two years ago, or we will say, four years ago. That is why I would like to tell those colleagues and colleagues who are reading this text that it is unprofessional or superficial that this will not be true. However, there may be some conceptual or other differences in the direction itself. So, the basis of this text is a large-scale work of experts who know something about this area in Slovenia and know European and other experiences. Second, it is often heard that the present Rules of Procedure were written in some past times. It's an absolute misunderstanding. That's not true. On the ground, the statement states that the legislative procedure is the result of an old assembly arrangement based on the principle of uniformity of power, even though it should follow the constitutional principle of the division of power. This Rules of Procedure were adopted in 1993 when the current Constitution was in force. The one we accepted at the time - almost all of us also signed this time - so we accepted in 1993, colleague Anderlič voted in favour of this Rules of Procedure, colleague Potrč. I think I supported him myself, then I was a strong member of the opposition. So, don't say that this Rules of Procedure are the result of some past socialist times, because that's not true. It was built in 1993. Maybe you're surprised, it's not even that bad of a procedure. It's not that bad of a rule at all! Now there are some substantive comments. If I were an opposition Member, I would take the position of the secretariat and go from article to article and have an excellent professional and substantive debate. There's a lot you could say. I support the proposal to examine the proposals and to make a substantive definition of the Secretariat's comments. This is a proposal from a colleague in the pooled list. The explanation is that the secretariat draws attention to some of the shortcomings contained in the proposal. Not only on some shortcomings, but also on some conceptual dilemmas. The first was written immediately in the introductions. This is the role of the secretariat or legislative services in the proposal for a law. I warn you that this is a very important substantive change, conceptual, how the law will be built in our house. Have we carefully considered the fact that we have withdrawn the professional conscience of the State Assembly, which is also a secretariat, and have put it into second place, and when we have moved the burden of professional work into the working bodies and also into the parliamentary groups? This is a dilemma, a substantive, professional dilemma and is important for the quality of the materials and laws that come from our house. The secretariat, however, was so brave that he himself wrote about this dilemma in the introduction. There was no shame in warning him about these things. The second topic is the status of the college. So far, the consultative body, and now it becomes a decision-making body. Important conceptual change. The third is the importance of working bodies. I've talked about this before. Third topic. The secretariat points out that we may have been proposing constitutional solutions at the border. Article 6 which speaks of the convening of an extraordinary meeting. Article 148, this is a novelty for the National Assembly to ratify state contracts with a decree. This is particularly delicate when the international treaty contains directly enforceable rights and obligations. Really! This will have to be studied well. And that we have proposed that parliamentary issues and initiatives may also be put before the head of the government service. The Constitution here and the responsible thing is Parliament, and it provides for something different until Parliament. As a drafter of the Rules of Procedure, I will certainly carefully examine all the proposals and views of the Secretariat and other additional conclusions if they receive the necessary two-thirds majority of the Members and Members present. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much! It's 13 o'clock. Will you have a very short replica? If it's longer, procedurally, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that we end this point now, including by voting in view of the fact that some colleagues, as far as I know, are in a hurry because they are having an agreed celebration and should also be present there. I don't think that's gonna take long because it's still Dr. Knocking on the door, and then there's no other debater. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Well, it's 13 o'clock. We've always taken this necessary time to rest. It's probably what some colleagues and colleagues are counting on. I think it is right that we do not decide otherwise by some majority vote. The National Assembly will continue its meeting at 2.30 p.m. I invite all of you - please pay attention - to all of you to report to the National Assembly at that time, because we are expected to vote very quickly, because there is only one colleague left for the debate and then the vote. So we're supposed to finish this session before 3:00. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 5th session, 26.4.2001: Anton Delak for the whole day, Bogomir Vnučec from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Franc Kangler for the start of the afternoon session, Maria Possonec for the whole day and Franc Čebulj for the whole day. We're picking up the presence! There are 49 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. Before continuing, allow me to inform you of the following notification: By letter dated 26 April 2001, the Ambassador of the National Assembly of Borut Suklje informed us that he was appointed on 30 March 2001 as the Extraordinary and Authorised Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and will begin his diplomatic function on 3 May 2001. On the basis of the above, I propose that the National Assembly be informed of the following conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Member Borut Suklje has been appointed as the extraordinary and authorised Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is incompatible with the function of the Member under Article 10 of the Law on Members. It will begin to take effect on 3 May 2001, and therefore, in accordance with the fifth indent, first and second paragraphs of Article 9 of the Law on Members, on 2 May 2001, the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly shall expire." This conclusion will inform the Republic Election Commission. We continue the general debate. We are considering the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at first reading. Mr. Tsukati has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	Your Honor! I didn't agree to talk about it. If anyone does, I am certainly also interested that work in the National Assembly is rationalised and that discussions are primarily focused on substantive issues. A messenger who has something to say says, and then listens to others. However, here are a number of key issues that should have been resolved in the first, namely, the first treatment that has been passed on to the labour force. Imagine a small client, four Members, who must have his representatives in all the working bodies. Because there are few of them, an individual member of the parliamentary group is certainly involved in five or six committees. This is said to never happen again in order to meet two committees at the same time. As soon as the two committees meet at the same time, the party shall no longer participate in the first reading. In the first reading, each Member must also have the opportunity, not only of a parliamentary group, but also of me as a person, as a Member, to make amendments, to cooperate and to defend its amendment in each of the Members' groups. So, it must never happen again that you will occupy two committees at the same time. The National Assembly must not prevent me as a Member in order to be able to table an amendment as a Member. If the constitution allows me and gives me the right to file a law, then I'm probably allowed to make an amendment. With your majority you can stand on your head, you will not take that right away from me. Unless otherwise, I'll be looking for help in the Constitutional Court. If there is a limited time for talks here and I will not be given - due to the multitude of Members' applications, who will apply for an early interview - an opportunity to speak for at least five minutes and explain my affairs, my views, then I will have to look again for justice in the Constitutional Court. For I am elected, I am a Member, and I must have the right to speak on behalf of the electorate, on behalf of those who have delegated me. Think again about these dilemmas. As long as you don't fix them, I'm going against acceptance and against the way the text goes into further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much! Since no one wants to discuss Mr. Mamić again, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	All I want to do is back up what Mr. Cuckoo said before me. It often happens that there is no consensus, not on one committee, not on the other or on the Commission, because one Member should be on two working bodies at the same time. That's it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much! Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Are we going through the Procedural proposal, Mr. Kelemina? [[...]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Before deciding on the rules of procedure or whether it is a suitable basis for second reading, it would take a 45-minute recess within the Group of Members in order to fully align ourselves and then take that decision. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	If you'll excuse me, we'd like to open a debate on this decision. However, following the conclusion of the debate on this Decision, I am obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to give the Group of Members the opportunity to consult before the decision is taken. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the proposed decision of the parent working body. In doing so, I would like to point out that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the examination of this proposal will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. I therefore put to the debate the decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia - the first reading - is a suitable basis for the preparation of the draft Rules of Procedure for the second reading." Anybody want a word? Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Vice President! I will support such a proposal for a decision. As part of the debate on this decision, I would also like to ask you, as one of the signatories to the draft Rules of Procedure, whether the drafters of the Rules of Procedure to the opposition have answered their questions. This is now a key decision. Is the proposal for a Rules of Procedure a suitable basis for a second reading? I listened to almost all the discussions, to the office - I was not constantly present here - some of the substantive discussions that were presented. Now I'm only in a dilemma at the last performance of my colleague Tsukati. One of the key novelties of the Rules of Procedure is that there is a strong emphasis on meetings, that the very legislative process in terms of working bodies is strongly highlighted. If we have a new structure ahead of us, a new system of the legislative process, then I am left with only this question of whether the assessment by my colleague Tsukjati was correct in order to violate the basic right of a Member if there were to be more working bodies at the same time. And it will, because it can't function otherwise than that there are at the same time more meetings of working bodies. The MP will have this opportunity to defend his amendment at a working-body meeting. Is this finding correct? If it is true, then we are indeed violating the Members' fundamental right here. I, as one of the proponents of this Rules of Procedure, would be paying attention to this position, and I would point to that. The fact is, however, that the secretariat did not point to this issue in its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion again, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	I've heard from my colleague Kontic that it's not necessary for the secretariat to do this. But it's this basic concept. It's the ambassador's position. I had, my opinion was pretty good, even though I don't really know the contents of this law. I have the impression that when an MP is able to table an amendment, it is not necessarily at that time that the working body is sitting, that the amendment will be discussed and his colleague will defend it. Did I get it right? Is this a violation of the Member's right? If he is a member of two working bodies, he will certainly not be able to defend both amendments. However, we know that it will be crucial for the plenary session to see what will happen on the working body. In a way, my colleague here has a point, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	We will certainly look at all of today's debate, as well as others heard in other places, and certainly try to resolve all these questions for a second reading, in a way that will not be the case. Above all, it is about organising the work of the National Assembly differently, and so the Rules of Procedure have been drawn up. By this, of course, this also implies the non-retroactivity of working bodies. This is a purely organisational question and this is one of the things that is fundamental. The leadership of the National Assembly, the heads of staff and the services of the National Assembly will have to, according to what I have discussed in the introduction, make sure that two months in advance they know that there will be a working body then and then and then, at this time, a meeting of the State Assembly with these points. And that's how it has to be. See, we should - here we have a government work programme since February 2001, we have a programme or laws in the National Assembly tabled by Members and other acts, and if there was any agreement and organisation of work in this National Assembly, we should have from this programme that you have on the Internet and you can pull it out, there is nothing that I would have as a government representative - we have a list of what we should do in the National Assembly, what we have ourselves imposed. This arrangement could be made by someone who is neither political nor, above all, should not be political. I should follow the order, I should follow the procedures and so on, and I would say, look, from what we have on the program, we can do this. Then, of course, the colleges and the presidents of the working bodies and the leaders of the parliamentary groups agree, and they say, this will be in the month and this in the coming month. In this way, it means - if this is how we set up the work, and as I initially talked about some experiences in other parliaments, I thought precisely that this would happen, and in this case there should be no duplication. I don't think it's wrong if we ever organize ourselves in the National Assembly by having the working body in the morning, the second afternoon, and that, let's say, there are only two working bodies one day and not four, five, six and so on. But, of course, this is all the thing that needs to be done through the genetics of the rules of procedure, as it is laid down, even organisationally then, in order for this to actually happen. I know how to do that, given that I've been dealing with this policy now, with the programs and these things. In the age of computers and networks, where you can immediately see what is on the agenda and when, say, the order is occupied, let's say that a session of the working body is convened, it's that session and it can't be another one that doubles things at the time. That's how I understand this embarrassment. In principle, however, I absolutely agree that every Member has the right to participate in every matter under consideration, at least in those for whom he is particularly interested, where he has tabled his amendments, proposals and so on and where he wants to participate actively. In making decisions, however, it is known who is a member of this working body, subject to the conditions and manner in which it is organised or provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. With this positive explanation by the proposer, I would add that we absolutely support this direction, which he has just said, 100%. We expect, of course, as he has now promised in this statement, that all the other proposals that we have now tabled in the next debate will be fully taken into account. It is precisely because of this positive decision that I would ask that we consult just 10 minutes before the final decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	I also think it makes sense to support the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and I would certainly like an additional list of views and conclusions to confirm what would be the case with this general position, regardless of good wishes or ideas, as well as with the four proposers or the Rules of Procedure Commission. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in the next treatment before each one of us can explain in his own way this goodwill, which undoubtedly exists at this time. The question is whether we already have solutions or are willing to look for them, or whether it remains for a simple reason because we are the day before the holiday or we want to finish the point. I think it's more like the first one, we've already witnessed it, birekel, other billmakers have been sneezing from our species, from other kinds to study something. Then we got something third. The Rules of Procedure are not, as has been said here, a sort of hinter that any Member or Member of this Chamber might feel, but is, in fact, a de facto, I will say, not a house order, but a small constitution in the essence of this parliamentary system. From this point of view, it would be good to have these issues listed, which need to be identified, because it will also be easier to change or seek agreement for them. Of course, it is not true that this German meticulousness is the only thing we can see in the world in parliament. You also have topics that do not end and start at a certain time and session, but "burden" Parliament throughout its term of office. Certain themes are just those that go through and even circles of discussion. Let's say one of these topics that this Parliament certainly knows is the issue of the protection law of the Slovenians in the Italian Parliament, where it took virtually decades, regardless of the forecast of when this will begin, but it has not actually ended. Therefore, my proposal would be to propose to the applicants that they take a break, not to Mr Kelemina, and to propose, I will say, these additional conclusions, which will be easier to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, according to the proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, we are adjourning the session for preparation before the decision, 10 minutes, as last proposed. Let's get on with it, 15.05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on. We're picking up the presence! There are 54 Members and Members of Parliament present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. I ask the representative of the Socialist Party's Group whether he wishes to explain. Here you go, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. In addition to the comments made on this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say this to my fellow Members, or to reiterate that not all the proposals proposed or all the innovations contained in this new proposal of the Rules of Procedure are bad. Some of the solutions that can be easily supported are proposed because they are based on the experience we have gained so far in parliamentary work, which shows the serious need to simplify certain procedures on the one hand, and also on the need to bring more order into these processes. Unfortunately, these same experiences also show that only a modified procedure of both objectives cannot be easily achieved. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure which we have made with regard to the budget have shown that, while some deadlines have been reduced in the adoption of the budget, this has not affected the quality of this act or the quality of the adoption of this act, for which it is also, or in particular, the responsibility of this Assembly. The majority still voted that the case should be adopted in a forced procedure where it was not even possible to present all the arguments. Some important views, such as the position of the Chamber of Economics towards the budget, we have received the final hour of serious discussion. This experience shows that only with a change in the rules of procedure, what essential higher quality cannot be achieved. In addition to the changes in the articles themselves, it would also be necessary to change the culture of this National Assembly. Some of the changes that have now been proposed and which seek to be more orderly in the consideration of the agenda or of individual points, and which have previously been well justified by the president or leader of the Liberal Democracy Group's experience in the German Parliament, will, in view of our experience so far, be completely without effect if the practice we have so far continues. If anyone can ever propose to move the point, if the majority vote, if we change the agenda a hundred times, if, I don't know, the will or the free time of the government minister depends on whether a point will be dealt with today or tomorrow, if that time does not adapt to a schedule set forward in the national assembly, then these efforts will be free of charge. What would be better for the opposition if they knew in at least one month at least in advance which points would be dealt with each day. Thank God! We will be the first to vote for something like this, because the opposition does not have strong offices, paid officials and professional services, which prepare positions for it, we must do so with very modest powers in the parliamentary groups or on our own. This is how we support every trend towards ensuring greater quality of decision-making, as well as greater order in making these decisions. However, we are opposed to any attempt to make mistakes, rather than to remove them, cover them, or simply to introduce a decision-making procedure in such a way that, once we have adopted a law, we will receive, within two weeks, from the government that proposed the previous law, a proposal to amend the same law or to supplement the same law. We cannot prevent this by any good will here or by amending the Rules of Procedure, but only by ensuring, through procedural and substantive changes that we should make, the quality of decisions. The first condition for this is to listen to arguments, but not to rely solely on the power of voices. With most it is possible to accept anything, it is even possible to determine, as we have heard in the previous mandate, that the truth becomes what the majority decides, which is at odds with logic and intelligence. However, it is not possible to ensure the quality of decisions by means of a voting machine alone. And Slovenia also needs quality decisions. Therefore, in order to arrive at quality decisions, we need a certain time and a certain opportunity to argue that these decisions will face arguments for and against. And if this time is limited across some reasonable borders, it will affect the quality of the decisions and, as a result, we will discuss the same thing three times, because the government will come to realize after a while that it has just proposed an incomplete solution and will correct it, just as it is now. I don't think so. If we had time, we could give a number of examples. That is how we oppose those proposals in this Rules of Procedure, and therefore we will not support this proposal, although it also contains many good solutions, a good basis for a second reading, especially if some additional decisions are not adopted, because we believe that some solutions go against the quality of the decisions to be taken by the Assembly. We hope, however, that in future readings, thank God this is a normal procedure, that it will be possible in the further procedure of this matter to be clarified and that in the end this National Assembly will have a Rules of Procedure which will ensure this quality of decision for the common benefit. What added to the alarm bells is the text you wrote down in the coalition contract. It follows from those obligations in this Treaty that the coalition must change or adopt new rules of procedure, not in order to achieve a better quality of decisions in this national assembly, but in order to facilitate the implementation of the coalition treaty. This could be a subordinate goal, but it cannot be the first objective. We need this rules of procedure to be as normal as possible and to make decisions as qualitatively as possible, and not just to make it easier for a coalition to achieve its political objectives, now such, otherwise, more easily. The ambitions of the new Rules of Procedure should go beyond such an objective. If there is a willingness in the next stages to achieve such a goal, then we are willing to cooperate. I think it would also be appropriate to finally adopt rules of procedure which will in principle support all the groups of Members. And that this will not only be a coalition contract project, because coalitions can be such in one term and in the other, we need the rules for a longer time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would also like to draw your attention to the position of the Parliament's business commission that only Members who have declared their presence before the vote may vote in the event that the assembly decides with the two-thirds majority of the Members present. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to deactivate the voting devices of your colleagues who are not currently in the Chamber. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the decision of the parent working body, which reads:Proposal of Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a draft Rules of Procedure for the second reading. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It was 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on complementary proposals for a proposal for a decision by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Ten complementary proposals were tabled. If you don't mind, we'd go in the order in which they were invested. First of all, we are moving on to a discussion on the supplementary proposal of the National Assembly's mandate-immunity committee, which, pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure to consider and adopt the following proposals for views when considering the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As this has not been accepted, the Commission is turning to the National Assembly and proposes that the National Assembly adopt these proposals. Anybody want to talk? There are six opinions on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, of 14.3.2001. Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Madam Vice President! I would suggest that we read every position, and I do not currently have this document on the bench. I don't know where I came from.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	There is no problem, we can read, namely, the proposal for positions - there are six. Under one: "The proposal should examine the consistency of the provisions of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the provisions of Article 7, the approval of mandates, and with the provisions of Article 9, the termination of the mandate of the Law on Members." Two: "The proposal should take into account all possible changes in relation to the parliamentary mandates - this is also an example of the finding that the candidates who have served as Members instead of Members who have served as Members in the government and have been given a leave of office, and an example of the finding that the Member's term of office has ended." Three: "The proposal should examine the relevance of the provision of Article 18 in the light of the various changes in relation to the parliamentary mandates between each other and in view of the diversity of the content on the one hand in relation to the parliamentary mandates and, on the other hand, the first meeting of the new election committee when the national assembly is established." Under four: "The proposal should examine the appropriateness of the solution to the delegation of powers of the Commission of Commissioners and the part of the powers of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs to the new Commission of Commissioners of the European Parliament and of the Council. In particular, it should consider the issue of conflict of interest between the powers of the new Election Commission." Below five: "The proposaler should consider the possibility of introducing a specific act establishing the reasons for the termination of the mandate." 6: "The proposal should take into account the decision of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, number 713/01-93-10-59, of 14.12.1999, sent by the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure, in particular the comments of the Secretariat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Law and Legal Affairs, opinion No 713/01-93-10, of 15.11.1999. It should also examine the regulation of the procedure concerning immunity of the Ombudsman." Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for reading these suggestions. In principle, I would say that a fundamental difference is also for the applicants when it is a complementary or transformative position of the downstream nature and sends the applicants to study. There will no doubt be a much greater possibility that a majority will be needed for such guidance than where the proposal makes the dictatorship very clear and binding on the second reading. Of these five, I note that only the sixth is so that it is already said that when considering the procedure the applicant should take account of the decision, which is already a binding standard [[This is point 6.]] . At the time when Madam Vice-President read it, I also obtained this opinion from my colleagues, which the Commission on Immunity is proposing to the draft Rules of Procedure. This would also apply to further positions of exchange, other fellow Members' groups. I would advise that, where possible, that the norm is obsessive, so as to examine, to try to go as far as possible with this norm, and thus as less binding as possible, that the diction is such that the applicant is obliged to do so, because the possibility of accepting it will be much greater if the norm is "to study". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I propose to the National Assembly that we vote on all six positions together. Does anyone object? You want me to take the first five together and the sixth one separately? Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	I would also draw attention to point 2 of this, although I am a member of this committee, but there is also a 'listening'. In my opinion, then, the 2nd and 6th are deceiving. That's why I would suggest that if this is where it can turn into "to study." Otherwise, we'll have to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	Mr. Pohorec, just an explanation. This is a Commission proposal that cannot be amended by itself. I see that, in fact, there is no consensus that all six are voted on together because of such remarks, so we will vote on each and every one. So we move on to the decision on the proposal for position number one. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the proposal is adopted under number one. We move to a vote on proposal number two. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	There have been many interruptions to your vote. This proposal simply cannot be accepted because "the proposal should take into account all possible consequences with regard to matters governed by legislation, electoral law, the law on Members, the law on government and a number of other things. Of course, we cannot simply say that we should take into account any possible changes in relation to the parliamentary mandates. What will happen, as with the parliamentary mandates, is, in one way or another, governed by the Law on Members, not by Rules of Procedure. Therefore, of course, such a binding position is impossible to adopt in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We therefore move to a vote on the proposal under 2. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal below 2 has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the proposal under 3. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 23. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposal below 3 has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the proposal under 4. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal is adopted under 4. We move to a vote on the Commission's proposal under 5. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal is adopted below 5. We are moving on to the vote on the Commission's proposal under 6. Explanation of voice. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	I will vote against this motion for a decision because it is not possible to put a decision in the Rules of Procedure of a commission, as it is written down. We've studied it and it refers to completely different things. In this context, the rules of procedure do not fall within the scope of the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We therefore move to a vote on the proposal under 6. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the supplementary proposal, which is proposed by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, in the following text, that in preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading, the proposal should be examined and set out in substance to the comments of the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the complementary proposal, which is proposed by the Group of Members, with the first signed mag. Majdo Potrato, in the following context: In preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading, the applicant should consider the possibility of including a specific article at the beginning of each proposed law. It should make a mandatory interpretation in the legal text of the terms under consideration by taking full account of the duality. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I support this content, but it's a little vague. The first sentence is clear to consider this possibility. Only after the applicant has examined and decided whether to do so or not will the second sentence come into force. This does not mean that if we vote that already means that the applicant is obliged to give a mandatory interpretation of the legal text of the terms under consideration. Only after the applicants have examined this possibility and if they decide to do so will it be not binding on the second reading. This additional or complementary proposal is somewhat misleading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. For the first time in the National Assembly, we do not face the issue of gender mainstreaming in marriage texts. At least two options have been tested to resolve this problem or this issue. One in the National Assembly did not receive support, although in my view, considering both sexes throughout the marriage text is the best possible solution. However, because there was a tremendous number of legal texts before us and because the Working Group on Language Planning and Language Policy had already forwarded its position to the National Assembly, in which it considered that these forms should be taken into account for the first reading of the text if the procedure was to be carried out properly, well and would also pass on the language and legal testing of the solutions. Since these marriage texts are so much and it is hard to hope to achieve such a rapid achievement of the texts of marriage, another possibility with amendments has been tested. I believe that this option is already proposed for 13 marriage texts. The Group of Members and the Member of Parliament is now giving the National Assembly an assessment of the complementary proposal, which introduces the possibility of a third solution to the problem. This is not a solution that would have been completely there by now, because if I look at, say, the Veterinary Act, it already contains Article 3 which explains the meaning of the terms. In this text it would be possible, say, at 16, 36, 38, 40, 41. Paragraphs 42 and 50 introduce such an explanation and form. With that remark, which, for example, was written at point 50, the way of an animal trader, hereinafter referred to as 'trader', would also be explained for both of the active persons in the beginning and only in the rounding of the explanation that this applies to the whole text. What we are proposing, therefore, is that for the second reading, the applicant would also consider the possibility of such a solution. I therefore ask you to support the proposed complementary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm impressed by this complementary proposal with one such strange feeling. Unfortunately, it happens again in the National Assembly that we will talk, talk and waste our time about meaningless and unconstant and stupid proposals, which are completely confused with legal knowledge. After all, in this case men and women should be strictly used in the maritime law and, for example, we should also talk about whores. I think that this is how things are presented in this proposal. I would expect that colleague Potrata would rather be more passionate about preserving the democratic form of this Parliament and would be against such changes to the rules of procedure as were proposed by coalition parties and adopted at first reading. There would be a sober, smart and long debate. But I don't think she was there. Here, when we are talking about strict respect for sexuality, I would then suggest that Mrs Potrats also use the middle sex at times, because perhaps something similar is used in any law to make use of it. However, the middle sex should certainly be applied when certain Members without those male authorities adopt such laws as they have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please. And before that, she's got a replica of Mrs. Potrate. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Well, if I'm allowed to add something to these language depths, then I should tell my colleague Jelinčič that the male form of the whore is "the whore". What he was talking about wasn't a functioning person. But if you remember what I was saying on the ground, I was talking about naming working people. Well, there's also something to say about a tugboat in a maritime law, whether it's a working person or it's not a working person. The meaning of the proposals can be decided in the most democratic way by a vote. I am sure that Mr Jelinčič will take this opportunity. In the case of natural sex, we are accustomed to thinking about women and men. Of course, there is also the vocabulary middle sex. In the case of working persons, however, these cases, which Mr Jelinčič is now talking about, at least to the extent that I can quickly cross my language memory, I cannot dig up the case, except for the designation for young beings and for the debilitating names of the "grandmother" type. However, if such expressive names are included in the legal text, they are subject to language culture and information about what a function of a type of Slovenian language requires.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I expected that response. A colleague of Potrate correctly found one of the few words that can be used in the middle sex, and many times we could use it, but not for it. But something bothered me when she said that the male form of a whore was a whore. I came out of the tractor myself, so to speak, should be a woman's form of "truck." That's where Mrs. Potrates let me down. Well, it's okay. After all, this is a debate on the legal subject. In the legal subject of strict use of double or double sex form, it is pointless, inconsistent, and, according to your own words, if you ask which lawyer, he will say that this is completely stupid. After all, I don't know why it's so strict. In fact, the Constitution itself provides for gender equality, unless some fellow Members feel neglected. In this case, they may have to explicitly require another form in the text or in the texts of the laws. He himself would agree to the legal interpretation of legal matter and all legal materials and materials, and I think that there is a meaningful uniform form everywhere, so that it is clearly understood that this applies to both sexes. Perhaps I would finish Mrs. Potrato, who is a linguist, with one piece of Prešeren's opus when he said "Let the hooves belong."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I think there is no legal explanation in Slovenian practice. I do not think that legal explanations on this subject are yet available in Slovenian practice. There is, however, a practice where a doctrine that exposes men to gender is strictly enforced. We can also impose on the proposer the possibility of examining another practice where strict women's sex could be used. However, as a co-signatory of the complementary proposal, I would suggest, somehow, that we listen to another possibility that the proposer has actually already put into practice in this text. In its proposal for a Rules of Procedure, it introduces an option that is personal, not necessarily professionally established, closest to me. In the Rules of Procedure, we meet in Article 1 with a dictatorship that enforces the word of Members and Members, and in doing so we use further text in the round, when it says that the subject of processing, what this law actually brings, is the rules of play, of culture of conduct and of the rules of action of the National Assembly, hereinafter the text of the Member. I think that this solution is also used in the constitution once we meet the term of citizens and citizens, and the term of citizens. Undoubtedly, it would be very useful if the proposer would also listen to the options proposed and that which proposes a specific article that would define concepts in both sexes. At the same time, I think that he can also consider the possibility that he has already put into practice, as it were, by making meaningful use of the one-off possibility of introducing both sexes and, of course, one-sex course, easier for all to understand and possibly more applied practices. It is not only a legal solution to one, not only a legal term or a problem, but also to face other far broader aspects, which also have a symbolic nature. In any case, I think that this is the initiative of the complementary proposal, with the first signed mag. Majda Potrat, and with some, I will say, to a fast-tracked practice that has accelerated the suspended operation since 1996, when this discussion has already started in the National Assembly, with some amendments to some of the laws in this mandate, adds to the consideration of the possibility that she would propose at this time: In the first reading of each law, the legislator should commit himself to making meaningful use of both sexes, of course, in preparing each law, or to distinguish between the proposed form in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please. Then Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, when Mrs Tratova proposed one form of the middle sex, I would be in favour of perhaps, given what Shirca's colleague said to use something else, let's say, in the beginning we give Members and Members, then we can use another form, which would probably be very popular for the Slovenian population outside Parliament. And we'd be happy to give it to the celebrities because it's the middle sex. And, say, the word "bovine."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Mr. Jelinčič, let me warn you. This goes beyond the measure of healthy taste, and it can be called insult. I remind you that in the future I will truly be in line with the Rules of Procedure, because of the insult of the Lord Rudy Moses, please. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Mr Jakič, this does not mean that we can continue with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! I myself experienced torture when I led one of the previous vocations of the Education Committee and the National Assembly finally agreed that the law must be written in a two-sex form in the second reading. And our lawyers gave up, and the festivists gave up. Our language is now at this developmental stage just so it doesn't allow it. However, I think it is right, and I have repeatedly warned here that this problem is solved in one of the ways proposed by my colleague, or my colleague here. And the debate on this is not a debate on law, not a debate on Slovenian language, but a debate on the situation of women. You, my fellow Member, are in here less than 10, we men are in the vast majority. Some of the debates on this subject that were here were not in this style to be proud of being a man. I would say this, not only when we sing what your little girl is, or up over Isra, that we have tears in our eyes, but then we respect women, but specifically in this problem, if we vote for, we will see how much we really respect them and respect them. For this good purpose, in order to resolve this matter once again, I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin. Here you go, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It seems to us that we are wasting time and energy, so it would be appropriate to support the initiative, which is, in essence, still well-intentioned. It is not appropriate to discuss what the Slovenian language, especially in the legal field, translates or manages, because this issue is scholastic. The Slovenian language was also considered to be non-expressible to Prešern. Once we find the right writer of legal texts, we can find another kind of pleasantly acceptable form that will not burden the presidents of working bodies or the people involved. I would say that the initiative is more than correct and that practice in Europe proves that both approaches are possible. All Scandinavian parliaments write all texts in both sexes, and this does not inhibit or seal them in their effectiveness. Whether we can do this or not, it depends on our political will. It's just political will. At this stage, at first reading, it is a question of whether we are able to give political support to study this possibility or not. That is why I would ask you, or recommend that those who do not listen to this proposal, at this stage also allow you to reach the majority in a way that allows you to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar and then Mr. likenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Due to the political culture, correctness and directness of this proposal, I support it and, of course, I ask that we also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Just for a little while. In a brief consultation with Dr. Gabro, he convinced me that the second sentence is essentially tied to the first one and it is not a matter of duality and I will support this complementary proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	Of course, I support it, you don't have to explain it in particular. But I think the way to succeed is the victory of the Jelinčič, who can, I'll say my name to the Victory of the Elinčič Noble Beef.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	Your Honor, I really ask that we stop messing with insults, and I remind you, Mr Školč. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal of the Group of Members, with the first signed mags. Majdo Potrat. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the supplementary proposal, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, in order to determine, when preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for second reading, how to take decisions in college so that the heads of the smaller groups will also have an impact on the decision-making process. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. This is a whole series of proposals, but it is our opinion that it would be right to go to college if it had greater powers, which may also have a positive impact on Parliament's later work, so that these decisions would indeed be taken in the most democratic way. Well, not with some vote, but with some right decision. In addition, I have already said before, we ask the secretariat to examine, inter alia, whether this is in accordance with our positive legislation or also in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	I would have supported such a proposal if, however, it had been corrected in the way it had already been said that it would 'examine the possibility' to do so, but not to determine such a way of making decisions. Of course, I believe that it must be possible to influence the College in identifying these issues to all the parliamentary groups, including, for example, the smallest, composed of two Members of the National Communities. However, decisions in this case and in this chapter are explicitly limited to procedural issues, not to substantive issues. It is procedural issues and how to come to procedural decisions in a way that - at this point I don't know, but I don't want to say no.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. On the basis of the implementation of colleague Anderlič, if possible, we would then actually turn the word "to-do" into "examination", and then it will be acceptable for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Allow me to supplement you, "Study such a way of accepting." Instead of the word "do" "Study." Thank you very much. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	I would like to support this proposal on my own. There's two things I'd like to say. Firstly, it has been heard from all sides today that the rules are important, that they need to be followed and that, of course, they do not solve all the problems; that some of these problems are solved by some narrowness and culture between us. What seems important to me from today's debate, the message, not least this decision, is to try both sides, the opposition and the coalition, in the next two cases until the end of such decisions, which will enjoy a great consensus. This is certainly the case for an attempt that we will always try to achieve in college, not only by voting, but also by procedural matters, but by aligning our opinions, so that this national assembly will work to hear the views of all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal because it makes sense, even though it will only try to prove on paper that there is some kind of democracy in Slovenia. The fact is that colleagues will now become more and more like the future national assembly, where only those who rule will be allowed to speak, and others who will be in opposition will have to remain silent and subject to decisions. However, it seems that fellow Members and colleagues have decided to do so through totalitarian democracy. After all, once called the dictatorship of the proletariat, it is now necessary to find some appropriate expression for something similar. Surely, as I have already said, the matter will be at least cosmetically slightly more beautiful, because otherwise, in reality, a Member coalition roller will work, which will knock down all others who will not think as they are commanded, as some smaller parties in the coalition or as specified in their own larger coalition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am putting to the vote the amended proposal, as amended in the second line "for the second reading, consider such a way of making decisions... etc. ".. We are voting on this. There are 53 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the supplementary proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group in the following text: "The proposal for a second reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the RS National Assembly should amend the proposal in the fifth indent of Article 114 so that the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptation of the proposed regulation of European Union law in the three legal systems of the Member States of the European Union is mandatory only for the government." Anybody want to talk? Mr. Anderlich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	This proposal is basically similar to the previous one, so it must be arranged so that something is not mandatory. This cannot be accepted because it is because once the law is passed and the assessment of compliance with European law, it will not matter who proposed the law, what the law is, what the law governs and will be the law of this national assembly, and there will be no law of Members or of the government. The basic principle is, however, in this Rules of Procedure, that the professional services of the working bodies and the professional services of the working groups are strengthened so that they can also be judged for the needs of Members. So we cannot have two criteria for the submission of a law: one for the government, one for the Member. So you could be, I'll say, a second-order marriage, which we don't want. I also think that there is a need to take into account and include in the drafting of the laws the research sector and the services they are, and therefore to send earlier to organise the national assembly and the services, as well as professional assistance in the parliamentary groups, so that this can be ensured, which you would like to implement here as an exception. This I think would be the right solution, not the other way around, because we could get a disabled marriage because of this or later find that something is not in line with some arrangement or that it would be better to take a look at something else, it would be worse because we should probably repeat it or give it out of the procedure. In such a way as this proposal is written, at least I cannot accept it myself. However, the criterion must be the same for all and be organised in such a way that everyone can do so. And the National Assembly must ensure these conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Exactly what colleague Anderlich said is crucial. We agree that if we have the opportunity, say, to achieve this on the basis of a new reorganisation, then certainly. But right now, we're almost unable to do something like this. We can do this, but we have to make a tremendous effort, which, of course, we don't even have the human resources potential, so to speak, we are running out of time for these things. However, as far as I know, the scope of the proposal is defined by the majority, the government, and perhaps the government, by supporting the possible or trying to discredit or to prove otherwise, would then attempt to demonstrate such a definition with its professional services. This may also be one of the solutions. However, as far as what Mr Anderlič says will happen, the actual reorganisation of the National Assembly will take place, and that we will also be able to properly use members of the opposition of this various service, which will be able to perform these functions, then we agree. But it would still be right if, if not, these strict criteria are somehow exempted for opposition parties or for these small groups. I don't know. We're just suggesting it. We also propose that we study the possibility of proposing a change again, simply to examine this possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Mr Kelemina, if I understand you correctly, in the second sentence you are proposing an amendment to the proposal for a second reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of amending the proposal in the fifth indent so and so on. [[...]] I put the amended proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 26. I note that the proposal has not been adopted. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the supplementary proposal, which is proposed by the Socialist Republic of Slovenia Group in the following text: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading, the proposal should delete the College's mandate to set the order of the examination of the laws, irrespective of the time of submission." Anybody want a word? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	This proposal is acceptable only in the form of a study. Otherwise, given that I got this on the table, this means that exactly what we really want to arrange, among other things, is to know what is the order of investment, which laws have the advantage - because now it is a matter of the government being able to abuse, to give some law and then withdraw it, so that the order is reserved, or Members are making laws, one, two, three, five, you probably know that, so that the government can't settle a question. In such a way as to ensure that colleges are not allowed to deal with this issue, it can also be a built-in blockade and misuse of procedures for speculative purposes. But we all served this, hand to heart, in these eight years, position, opposition, no matter where we were; and, of course, all the governments that were at that time had their own priorities, and some of the laws were investing, changing or replacing the entire texts, which is not the point. And that's exactly what we're trying to do, so it shouldn't come to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Look, colleague Anderlich, in fact, we agree that we should prevent the abuse of the motion and so on, but we should prevent this from happening on all sides. This would be right to prevent all sides. I don't know how familiar you were with this. In fact, in the discussions that we had in the previous term, when the Rules of Procedure were amended, or even in the preparation of the new Rules of Procedure, all legal experts and the Commission, including Kavčič and others, were present at the time of these debates, were inclined somehow to resolve that, once the proposals were tabled, four, five, six proposals in one and the same substance, in order to make sure that, I know, the College could have jurisdiction to decide which of these proposals would be the basis for the debate, but that all the other changes and proposals that were then able to be considered, you can understand, equally. Therefore, if a proposal was tabled after a reduced procedure and the college decided on it, it would prevent other proposals from being taken into account. If that's what you mean, then we're against it. However, if then all other proposals were to try to deal with this law and find some appropriate solutions, then this would be a positive and always open road so that certain things could change in time so that no blockades could occur. If that's it, then it's acceptable. So, excluding abuse from all sides. However, if that is not the case, then we cannot agree or support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u136	The main purpose is to prevent all forms of abuse. I have previously put my hand on my heart, as it is said, this applies to the government, this applies to Members of the position, the opposition and all. In the current legislative procedure, it will be so that the National Assembly will become the owner of this law as soon as it adopts the law into procedure and if the College assesses - clearly based on consultation in groups, in working bodies, etc. - that a law is the right basis, then, if it regulates the same content or similar content, it will incorporate all that into the law, which - on the working body of course - must be done. But the National Assembly will be the owner of the law, there will be no more government and individual MPs, and I don't know who will be able to do anything with it. Therefore, it is important and important that someone, a body, go to this national assembly and deal with these matters. This is the one who plans work that coordinates government, order and content, etc. He's planning to lead the assembly, along with a colleague. We do not have another collective body "at such a level" or so far there has been no one who would really do this and that this would be effective. Therefore, it is as difficult or unacceptable as it is in this conclusion, for we would not change anything that we now have.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I would also like to point out that in this proposal it would be right to take into account the proposal for a solution that each opposition parliamentary group will have the opportunity to propose a single law on each agenda and, if it assesses that it is so high-priority, it will actually come to the debate immediately before it is possible to discuss whether four five of them are being tabled at the same time. That's one. Now, if I am allowed just one minute of an anecdote, which I find very interesting when adopting the first Rules of Procedure. In the English Parliament, which is probably in some way recognised as the cradle of European parliamentary democracy, I asked whether Members and Members are introducing laws, and got the answer 'investment'. I said, "Is it a lot?" Answer: "Very big." "When are they dealt with and is any accepted?"Then there was a great surprise to my question. Because they said, "All laws which are dealt with by Members shall be dealt with one day a year, and those who are drawn shall be turned." All others were put in and never taken into procedure by these English parliaments, because of course they were put in order for a Member to present in his constituency the problem he wanted to present, but the government is the one who is directly responsible or is solving it or not. I do not claim that it must be like this in Slovenia, but I say that there are also such solutions, I was surprised at them myself, and that is why I remembered it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u140	I would add to my previous implementation that it is possible, as we would think later or for the second reading, to propose that we put in place a solution whereby, if a college has laid down a law, a law as the first in line and one proposed to the national assembly in the procedure, it is possible that if a college has established a law, a law as the first in line and one proposed to the national assembly in the procedure, that is to say, it is determined by the parent working body, which is really concerned with it, that the other billmakers, one, two, three five, can present their solution, their view and so on. Even if, of course, it is not formal, because suddenly one marriage can be considered and not anymore. And then, of course, with the adoption of the law, the procedure will proceed in accordance with other provisions that say: if an amendment on the working body is formed, the working body will adopt it and I will go as an embedded proposal or an amended article into the national assembly for decision. This is, for example, this basic philosophy of lawmaking in this way in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a vote on the proposal. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 13 to 26. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 26.]] The proposal was not adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the supplementary proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group in the following content: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading, the rapporteur should examine the justification for the extension of the powers of the College of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular as regards the duration of the meeting of the National Assembly and the time of consideration of individual agenda items, and the limitation of the duration of the discussions of Members and other participants of the session or of the parliamentary groups, with regard to the establishment of a working body, as regards the number of posts in the working body belonging to the individual working group and to which the parliamentary group belongs the chair or vice-president of the individual working body." Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, with a view to the monitor, I have found that the number of Members has fallen to a limit that no longer provides for a conclusion. We will vote on the proposal. The National Assembly cannot vote because it is no longer concluded. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I find the conclusion, secondly! There are 47 Members and Members present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. That is why we are moving to a vote on the proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. We're voting. I'm sorry. I vote. There are 49 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 20. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the supplementary proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group in the following text: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading of the 70th paragraph of the proposal, the proposal should be amended to allow each Member of the National Assembly to discuss in a debate which must not be limited to less than 15 minutes." Anybody want a word? Mr. Kelemina, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u142	Now, this is just one proposal that, in view of what is expected, at least I think, a successful continuation of the constructive debates of all the parliamentary groups - it is only possible to maintain an option or commitment perhaps even all the parliamentary groups, so that they will also work very rationally in the future national assembly and constructively in order to allow Members to discuss some important matter for at least 15 minutes. However, if you have noticed now, in recent times, at least this year, I have not noticed that 20 Members, such as from one member group, would decide and speak a little more broadly about a topic. There's always one, maybe two, and no one is nearly using it for 15 minutes -- not now. However, if we limit this to five minutes, but sometimes there is very little time, and three minutes - that is too little, and sometimes there are some very large things that cannot be supported by some broad arguments. It would be right to - what I know - perhaps let the Members discuss at least 15 minutes in these important topics and debates. I hope that's acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the supplementary proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group in the following text: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading, the rapporteur should examine the possibility of direct television broadcasting at the point of question and initiative." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 21. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the complementary proposals proposed by Richard Beumann, namely three complementary proposals. The supplementary proposal under number 1 is as follows: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure for the second reading, the proposal should examine the possibility of greater restrictions on the use of the Institute of Emergency Procedure." Second supplementary proposal: "In preparing the draft Rules of Procedure for the second reading, the proposal should consider extending the range of beneficiaries to third-reading amendments." And the third complementary proposal: "Recommendators should consider the possibility that working bodies meetings will normally be closed to the public." We are moving on to the debate on complementary proposals. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u144	Your Honors are here! Given that you have opened the debate on all three complementary proposals, it means that I can also touch the third one. In its third supplementary proposal, a Member of the National Assembly, by means of a liberal democracy, suggests that the applicant should consider the possibility that working bodies meetings should normally be closed to the public. A few moments ago, we gave the Green Light to the Rules of Procedure at first reading, where we gave working bodies more power than they had before. In short, we have put more emphasis on working bodies to deal with. We said that we want all the debate, constructive debate, to take place within the framework of working bodies. Now, in the second phase, you're trying to exclude, say, the public from this constructive work. I'm sorry, but at a time like this, a man can't understand differently than a simple dictatorship in two steps. The first is to remove the problem from this forum to one of the working bodies that are taking place in a hallway or in some room in this national assembly, and the second step that these - that is, smaller forums - are later closed to the public in the framework of working bodies. This really doesn't make sense in the name of democracy. I suggest you don't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Beuerman!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Have a nice hello to you all. I was aware that at the time of the signing of the proposal, especially this third one, I would not have a very big applause, especially with the opposition parliamentary groups, but probably not. Actually, I only wanted one thing. Look. I wanted to draw the attention of the National Assembly, which, of course, is dealing with the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, to the business options that most European parliaments know. If we review the rules of procedure of the European Parliaments, we can find that, by deducting the rules of procedure of the transition countries, most European Parliaments have such provisions. Of course, it is not that, in this case, the public is not allowed - someone interrupts me, I apologize - it is not that we work in secret sessions etc. It is simply that we prevent what experts say - experts who are familiar with parliamentaryism - that many Members abuse the presence of media for some performance, performance, etc. [[..]] In short, many people, where they know this principle of closed work on their working bodies, are doing much more current work, much more rationally; and that was all I wanted to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, then Mr. Jelinčič and then Mr. Pece. Mr. Battelli, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. In no House in any Western country where we had the opportunity to have a visit, there is no such thing as three or four television teams, after a few radio people - and I was a journalist myself - and journalists were present at work. It just doesn't exist. Nor is it that television broadcasts the inserts of Members or the Minister of Labour. There is no such thing in any developed democracy, because it is also a question of the dignity of Parliament's work. This does not mean, of course, that the presence of journalists is something that would undermine Parliament's dignity, but is actually a conceptual concept of the making of laws and other acts that are important to the whole country, at a time when this is happening and when it is necessary to do so and to do so. The term "closed for the public" is not, in my opinion, appropriate. It is usually in runaway parliaments, it is said in the parliaments of countries with escaped democracy, that things are happening in the following way: they are accredited journalists sitting in special rooms, that is what we have, and they also monitor the work of working bodies. And not everywhere, but in some, it happens. Especially accredited journalists who are able to monitor this. But everything else happens then, magnetograms are public, this is a self-evident thing, except when it comes to dealing with confidential materials. It's a practice everywhere. So, magnetograms are of course public, everything else can be done by the media after the work is done. And there Members, representatives of political parties, parliamentary groups, ministers, and so on, as far as journalists are concerned, have the opportunity to make their statements and also to say what they have said and why they have stood up for something. But it's a normal order of work in parliament. That is why I will support this proposal. However, it is said that the applicant should examine the following question. It's not about closing up in front of the public, it's about allowing for a normal, decent work that we're called to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have a replica of both my forewords: Mr Battelli and Mr Beumann. When Mr Battelli spoke about how parliaments are happening, how parliaments are literally happening in Western countries, in developed democracies, as he said, I would add something to it. In fact, in these advanced democracies, all meetings are broadcast by internal television and to recordings of internal television that broadcasts sessions, including working bodies, have all public televisions and can be used peacefully, over long periods and beyond. In short, the sessions are not closed to the public and, as Mr Battelli said, that journalists should sit in one room, be closed up and only there to listen to what is going on, but the president would turn on or off the transmission; this is not going to work. I always thought we were getting close or heading towards democracy, but it looks like we're moving away from it. And in time, I'm going to start to believe that some of the things that have already happened are happening. Mr Beumann's proposal, the third complementary one, that the meetings of working bodies should normally be closed, closed to the public, reminds me of those ancient times, I think that in 1989, when the decree on special measures signed by Drnovšek was issued in the secret official paper. We will not return to the period of secret meetings, secret notes, secret records, limited journalists, restrictions on journalists, restrictions on television broadcasts and everything! If you want politics to take place only in coalition lines, without the possibility of the public seeing and learning anything, be sure that the policy will be transferred to the roads. And then you will cry when it happens that - what I know - 10,000 people will throw granite cubes, not into Parliament, because Parliament is just the legislative authority, but into the government. They haven't taken it yet, just know, Slovenians and Slovenians are learning fast. And that's what's gonna happen. If this is your goal, then limit it all, gentlemen of liberal democracy. Restrict, close, and then order additional penalty clauses, after which a member who will speak too loud or who will speak at all in the next stage will be allowed to be arrested, interrogated in the basement, we can also build a special space here in the National Assembly, where these Members will - those who will not be insubordinate, where you can also educate them. I think that this proposal is so far-fetched with democratic principles that it is actually a shame that we are dealing with it here at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, then Mr. Ashitch. You're withdrawing. Mr. Aishovich, please. Then Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I think Mr Beumann's proposal is very correct, because it leads us to examine this issue and nothing else. We will no longer accept anything today if we vote on this third position. At the same time, I am expressing amazement at this and, of course, I understand more easily those criticisms that are quite critical when we go to European or other countries. For it seems to me that colleague Battelli and colleague Jelinčič do not go to the same parliaments. Or someone who walks, someone who doesn't walk. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jelinčič. Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to replicate Mr. Auschwitz? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is interesting that Mr Ašič justifies the adoption of this third supplementary proposal by Mr Beumann in that it is not a big deal, since it is only a matter of examining the issue. But, a while ago, today, in this session, maybe half an hour ago, there were a few suggestions from colleague Kelemina here who also spoke to study the matter, and they were demolished by the same liberal democracy with a reverse argument. What's here now? It's proven to be double standards. And you can see exactly the purpose behind all these suggestions. The aim is to minimise the functioning of any but themselves and to limit any possibility of parliamentary debate and democratic cooperation in policy processes. If some of the political parties in the coalition are, because they have to be, and they have to react as they signed in the coalition agreement, that is their business. They'll probably realize that they're sticking a loop behind their necks. After all, the fact that from all these proposals, how to limit the work of journalists, how to limit the work to the public to learn what is going on at the meetings of working bodies shows that the leading political party in Slovenia, liberal democracy, is afraid that the public will find out what is behind them. The Slovenian national party is very transparent and says exactly what it thinks and what it stands for. Liberal democracy, it seems, is already preparing some secret and secret measures by which it will create destiny for the Slovenian people at closed or later renamed secret sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u156	I'm sorry we're going to be a little longer today. I just want to read a few sentences. Look, the case of Finland. Now I don't know at this very moment who rules Finland - I apologize! - But I know the Constitution of Finland. The 50th Article of their Constitution states as follows: in the second paragraph it is stated that the meetings of the committees are not open to the public and that the public committees may open the part of the meeting where they collect information for the preparation of the decision. However, the minutes of meetings and accompanying documents shall be made available to the public unless the Committee decides otherwise for justified reasons. This is just an example of one of the rules of procedure in Europe. Now, if Mr Jelinčič thinks that something is going on in the Finnish Parliament, which is bad in contrast to democracy, this is his problem. It has similar provisions, once again, to most European parliaments, except for transition countries, where the story is that people are probably not convinced of democracy and thus in some way show a lack of confidence in democratic procedures. I wouldn't even comment on everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I don't know when the closure of the session is a sign of democracy; it's not in the world. Because, Mr Beumann, next time don't read the Constitution of Finland, but read what I know, the Constitution of Malaysia or the Constitution of another country where there are no working bodies at all. Perhaps you will follow this path, first lock them up, then stop them, or at meetings of working bodies, and prevent anything from coming out of the public with these working bodies, and then silence Members, because after all there is no point in anyone else saying anything. I think talking about democracy and talking about closed sessions, it just doesn't work together. There is no need to read the constitutions of various other European countries. Each European country, as well as each other, is its own specificity and its constitution - and as well as ours - has grown from the current situation and is slowly, as you say, withdrawing from the Slovenian case and the Slovenian starting point and is increasingly moving towards the European starting point and European standards. I don't know what happens next. Mr. Beumann, will you then adjust to the moment when we - if we do - in Europe, all the things you want to close now to reopen them? Europe, even where it is not yet democratic - and it is not everywhere democratic - is sometimes very close to democracy and is trying to be as democratic as possible. With us, in our national assembly, we are going on a turn-around and on a turn-around path, I do not know which is the most widely-repent, how they advocate a democratic process, how they are for democracy and how they are for the transparency of Slovenian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you. In the context of the general debate on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all parliamentary groups agreed that the new Rules of Procedure gave a new dimension to the working bodies. This new dimension is reflected in their power, in their session and now with your proposal for a debate, which is being transmitted from a meeting of the national assembly, i.e. to a meeting of the working body, you are making this impossible. I just wanted to tell you that we don't know how they have it in Finland, we don't know if the opposition in Finland have even stopped the debate in a forum called the Assembly Chamber of State. However, if we take the two steps that liberal democracy is preparing, that is to say the first transmission of the debate from the meeting of the National Assembly to the meeting of the parent working body, and the second step: the suspension of contacts with the public at the meetings of the working body, we do not come anywhere but to the dictatorship and in, say, the policy of the media, which will be created by government parties. Sorry! I propose that you withdraw your third proposal for a decision that is not really suitable for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss my view of the parliamentary bench anymore, I don't think we're 49. [[...]] Please, my fellow Members and colleagues, if you would like to see that there is no possible card deposit in the neighborhood and since we have only one complementary proposal before us, I would like to ask your fellow Members and colleagues who are in the vicinity to join us. [[...]] Since there is no longer a debate on three complementary proposals by drafter Richard Beumann, we are moving on to a decision, namely to vote on the first proposal first. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal was adopted below 1. We move to a vote on the proposal under 2. We're voting. 47 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal is adopted below 2. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal under 3. We're voting. I interrupt the vote, the explanation of vote, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u162	Yeah, I'm sorry I didn't sign up earlier, but you seem to have missed me. We cannot support this third complementary proposal by Mr Beumann in any way. Now, if we decide on this or if it is agreed that the main debate from the National Assembly will be carried over to the working body and then that this would still be a closed meeting, this is not acceptable in any case. It is true and I have already pointed out to the National Assembly that there are currently no ideal conditions for - spatial conditions in the first place - to effectively and effectively hold working bodies and, of course, to monitor the meetings now, perhaps if the weight of the work of the National Assembly is transferred to working bodies and the monitoring of meetings by journalists, in such a case or in such case it will probably be increased. And space doesn't allow that! So I don't mind if there's a special place where the camera can also carry -- let's say a joint camera can transmit and the press will be monitoring it there, but this option has to be and the sessions have to be open to the public. I don't know what you're afraid of. I said before, let the public be defined to let Slovenia, Slovenians and everyone else define whether someone has made a good proposal or a bad proposal, or who is misleading or who is doing anything, which is not in line with some of our common objectives, which we have set out to bring some proposal to the final decision. Let the people decide! Why should we prevent access to information? This must not happen, so I oppose it and our Group of Members opposes it; and this is decisively. And regardless of my colleague Beumann, which I do respect, but sometimes he's a little radical in his own eyes. If I had too much power, I'm almost afraid of what it would be like if this power were too much in his hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok would like to explain his voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal either. I think it's extremely restrictive. See, those who spoke about the functioning of other parliaments could also say that you have countries where people can monitor the work of Parliament. Unfortunately for us, these attempts were made, and the National Assembly rejected them. This is not just a matter of national television or some other television, but of course it is a matter of Parliament and this shows now, through this proposal, to even prevent working-body meetings from being accompanied by journalists. On the other hand, with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, most of the work and decisions we want to make to the working bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, these two proposals are by no means going together. If it is disturbing that journalists are present directly at the meetings, then I would understand that the applicant would at least complete this proposal with a form such as to allow monitoring of the work of working bodies to the press in any other way. However, it is not simply to write "the proposalr should consider the possibility that working-body meetings should normally be closed to the public". I cannot agree with such a proposal and will not support it in any way, but it would be best to withdraw it in a spirit of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go, then, Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I very much agree with the predecessors, but I explain my voice in this direction that I will say I will vote in favour. And it may be true that a small mistake in the proposal by Comrade Beumann was to write "rightly closed to the public" because we are presenting closed public meetings in a way that - for example - individual working bodies, the arms commission and so on, worked. And in addition to physical presence, there was no possibility of accessing information about what was happening on these working bodies. However, from the debate that was - for example, Comrade Battelli presented the matter as an example in another sense, in some intermediate version. And the same was said by colleagues Kelemin and Sok that the physical presence of the public was not supposed to be, but that the matter could be taken in a different way. And of course, because it is said to be examined, this intermediate option is also open and, of course, in this intermediate version, a solution to the rules of procedure can be drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann. Explanation of voice. Then Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u168	Well, maybe it'll look unreal. But given how misunderstood I was about this proposal and, in fact, realizing that it was very difficult to provide a two-thirds majority for this proposal, I am withdrawing this third supplementary proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u169	I'm sorry, Mr. Beumann. There can be no change or withdrawal. We're in the voting phase. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u170	I will vote against this proposal. And in addition to the arguments that I have already mentioned, there is something else that points to this. In fact, passive monitoring of the public has already been provided at certain meetings of the National Assembly. And despite the double recording, both tape recorders disappeared. That is why I do not believe in such passive monitoring of certain meetings, but I am for open monitoring of meetings where journalists are present and can thus see what is happening as well as hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Since we have exhausted the opportunity to explain our vote, we are moving on to a decision. We are voting on the last complementary proposal. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 29. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposal under number 3 has not been adopted. Mr Roberto Battelli also tabled a supplementary proposal, which reads as follows: "In preparing the Rules of Procedure for the second reading, the proposal should take into account the need to maintain and equalise the situation of Members of the national communities with other Members or Members' groups." Unfortunately, you do not have this proposal on your hands because, as our services have found out, it is against the rules of procedure that is said at the time when we have finished the general discussion, when there was still time, so that we cannot decide on this complementary proposal by Mr Battelli because it has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u172	I just have a procedural question. From Lotus Notees, I have printed all the amendments tabled, whether it is a misunderstanding or an amendment being tabled, 'the proposaler shall complete the second reading of the draft Rules of Procedure with provision 141 of the Rules of Procedure.' Was it this one? I have it in the folder. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u173	And who's the investor?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u174	The drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u175	Wait a minute! Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u176	I have this complementary proposal myself, the Social Democrats have tabled it. And since this is built into the Rules of Procedure and comes out of those third requirements of our last Rules of Procedure, if you remember when we changed the Rules of Procedure concerning the adoption of the budget, our commitment is that what we did two, three months ago, we will not change now, because this would be extremely unrealistic and could also question the credibility of our other proposals. Therefore: whether this is accepted or not, it is in the text to be taken into account. But the socialists put it in, it's in the text. We didn't vote, but since you don't have it, obviously, we passed -- or if we can still vote? But since it's embedded in the text, it's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u177	The official amendment was not tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u178	Okay, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u179	He may be in Lotus Notees, but he was officially put into service with a proposal for a supplementary proposal in such content. This concludes this agenda item. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u180	I have a procedural proposal to conclude this meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. the 5th meeting, I think it is already, in order to move all the points that have not been completed to the next meeting, and at the same time after a rapid consultation with all the parliamentary groups, to meet the College and inform Members in 20 minutes, whether it is possible to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly today, at which a request of 32 Members is to be considered for a referendum on the law that we adopted last Thursday. Most of it was for us to do it today and not in seven days, because we have to do it in seven days, or - say - Monday, no later than next Thursday. As I understand it, and as I recall, I will not argue, however, the rules of procedure and the law are indisputably required that if there are more than 30 signatures of Members, the national assembly should sign or have to sign the referendum. These are things that could be done today due to these limitations. I suggest that the college meet and inform please? [[...]] Isn't it serious? I say, I explain, my procedural proposal is that we conclude this meeting - if you have listened to Mr Podobnik, to finish, to transfer all the points to the next meeting and the Members wait 20 minutes, it is no longer the subject of this meeting, I don't know, maybe I should stress this in particular, but I thought about it. For I had the impression that everyone with whom I spoke would be more concerned that we should also have an extraordinary session today, than on Monday or next Thursday, when the two dates for this extraordinary meeting are possible. But we have to have her in seven days. But it's a matter of procedural nature. I'm "risk-taking" and I'm putting this proposal in the opinion of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. It is the duty of the State assembly to vote on the procedural proposal. The procedural proposal is for the State assembly to conclude with the 5th regular meeting and to move the points to points 5c, 5c, 7th, 8th and 10, which are the unfinished points of this regular reference, to the next meeting of the assembly. It's a procedural proposal. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We were confident that today the National Assembly, as foretold, would also decide on two amendments to the proposal for a plant health law. That's what the forecast was. That would have happened very quickly. Then I'm going to talk about a topic that's not the subject of this session. The law on referendum and human initiative. The decision of the National Assembly to call for a referendum is a very responsible matter. There's an act to be drawn up. This is where the secretariat plays. It is necessary to decide on the days, the dates are possible three. Are we going to do all of this in the next half hour? Please, we're serious. Next Thursday, the National Assembly shall adopt and decide on that. It's the only right solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u183	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members of this proposal, Mr Anderlich, does not intend to support and does not seem serious to us. So today we're talking about the rules of procedure, we're talking about how the Rules of Procedure can be chosen by most to play, how the agenda can be changed. And we say, but we're not doing it anymore, and we're doing it in the same breath. Well, we're not in favor of such solutions, and we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u186	All I have to say is, apparently, some people only see fear when I answer. My procedural proposal has nothing to do with what you've been saying. Nothing. My procedural proposal is that the 5th regular meeting be concluded at this time and all points for the 6th regular session are moved. That was my procedural proposal. If you don't support it, it's okay. But a procedural proposal is just that. But the rest was a justification that at least I and those with whom we consulted would want to do what we have to do today, or in 7 days. If we don't do this today, at least we'll be informed when we're done. And of course, since the leaders of the parliamentary groups will go to college, I suppose we can agree on that. This has nothing to do with this meeting and this procedural proposal has nothing to do with it. And once again, I am making this proposal to decide that we should conclude this meeting and that, as Mr Podobnik says, we should seriously discuss these matters. However, I suppose he has helped us to meet at this meeting, because he has given authority to some to cooperate on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-26-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to present its position on the procedural proposal? Because no, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 14. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, honourable Members and Members, I respectfully ask that they remain in the National Assembly for another 20 minutes, so that the President can tell us how they will agree on the College of the National Assembly. Members of the College are kindly requested to attend the College immediately in room 217. Thank you very much and good-bye.
