ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices, so that we have an overview of the quorum. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we begin our last session before parliamentary holidays. I hope it's as successful as what we finished yesterday. I am therefore initiating the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened under Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and are unable to attend the following meetings today: Peter Levič, Jožef Špindler, Kvetka Zalokar Orazem, Feri Horvat, Bojan Kontic, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, Geza Juban, Ivan Bozič [[Although my friend Christmas is with us]] , Yuri Malovrev, Franz Kangler also for the beginnings and Ivan Mamić. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. I find there are 60 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, whom I very much welcome. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 17 July this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I would like to ask on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - I don't know, maybe we weren't paying enough attention - what is the law on financing education and education. Before the third hearing, we have taken a break to table the amendment and it is not clear whether this third consideration and the amendment tabled has then been considered or not considered. So, according to our information, this matter has not been done and I would like to see if it can be verified because it could possibly be included on the agenda of this extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Just a moment, we'll check immediately and give the necessary explanations. Mr Sok, Mr Pukšič's amendment was rejected and the law was fully adopted. The procedure has also been completed. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We continue with the motions for withdrawal. I haven't received any of these before. My friend Anderlich. I'm asking for peace in the hall! My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u4	I propose that we shorten the agenda by withdrawing from proposal 1 of agenda item 1, questions and initiatives from Members and Members. It is simply that an extraordinary meeting is intended, as a rule, for things that are urgent, which need to be done at a certain time. It is also true in this case that several points which are time-bound for realisation are also called for. We are not aware of the need for intensive communication between the Government, Members and the National Assembly in general, in order to clarify a question through this particular point at the extraordinary meeting. I propose that, in the spirit of constructive work that was held this month in the National Assembly, and with the aim of really ending the other points, which are something on the agenda until the end of the meeting of the State Assembly in the spring work, and that this point be considered as the first item in the first autumn session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Let me get this straight. In accordance with Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure provides that at each regular meeting we also deal with parliamentary issues and initiatives. There was no regular session this year or this month. A while ago, I received a letter from two parliamentary groups, the Socialist Party's Group of Members and New Slovenia, in which they proposed to include the item. I put the dot on the agenda. If the national assembly decides otherwise, this will also apply to the final setting of the agenda. Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u6	It is normal for this Institute of Parliamentary Initiatives and Questions to be on the agenda every month. Now, if there is no regular meeting and some agreement has been reached that this is an extraordinary meeting, then it is only right that this is an extraordinary meeting. Alternatively, this point could have fallen off if the National Assembly were to conclude with everything else today, which I strongly doubt in terms of the agenda. In this case, I would agree that this is not the case and that there is no meeting due to the questions sent next week. But it's very unlikely what we all know. But I do have a compromise proposal for Mr Anderlich. I propose that Members of the ruling coalition give up their parliamentary initiatives and questions and this point will be very short.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u7	My friend Jelinčič wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we agree with Mr Anderlich's proposal. However, this should not become a practice. For this should be an extraordinary intervention today, and if this is today, I think this is very meaningful. Certainly not that this would become a practice and that today’s decision would be the beginning of a different way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the proposer want another word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the proposal of colleague Anderlich to withdraw the point of the initiative and the questions of Members from the agenda. We are voting on this. Of the 69 colleagues present, the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda was supported by 36 and 28 opposed. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 28.]] Someone else has a motion to withdraw the point. I do not see this, so we are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. Please. [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on quick procedures. First of all, to decide on a proposal to adopt a law following a rapid procedure, namely a law amending and supplementing the law on asylum. The government is proposing to the assembly to adopt it quickly. The mother's working body supports a quick procedure. Does the mother's working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Government officials? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 52 voted in favour, 7 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on succession. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. You received a letter from the Government concerning the procedure for examining that law. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[Not at all.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 51 for, 3 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws following a reduced procedure. I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a procedure to set the agenda. Mr Rokavec submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the law on protection and health at work. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the bill's proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] There's no debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least a third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. 68 colleagues and colleagues were present, 64 voted in favour and one against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending the Postal Service Act for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yes, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out to the National Assembly that, in its opinion, the Secretariat of the National Assembly points out that this proposal is not entirely in accordance with Rule 204a of the Rules of Procedure. The Act amending the postal service law does not merely provide for the harmonisation or elimination of inconsistencies between the price control law and the Regulation setting the maximum prices for basic postal services in internal transport. This is also recalled by the Secretariat of the National Assembly, which states in its opinion that this is an amendment which provides for the suspension of the transmission of letters from 100 grams forward and telegraph messages, under the conditions of the exercise of this activity under the conditions of the economic service. The amendment thus eliminates a significant part of the economic public service and controls the setting of these prices. The prices of mail over 100 grams will so increase - they will probably increase - and it can happen as if the prices of municipal services were released, that the government will have to take them back under control in a short time, as competition in this area has not yet been established in our opinion. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that we take into account the opinion of the Secretariat, which recalls the substantive changes and the provisions of Rule 204a of the Rules of Procedure, and we propose that this amendment be considered on a regular basis and not in a simplified procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Mrs. Bitenc, may I ask, does this affect your decision? Your position, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Mr President, our position has been presented to the competent labour body and has been addressed in the context of the debate. The competent working body has taken certain decisions on the additional explanations of this issue because it has assessed that this is a systemic issue. As far as I know, the government will give this explanation to the council. Amendments have also been adopted on the competent labour body, which are important and which, from the point of view of the Secretariat, resolve some of the concerns, so that, in this aspect of the procedure that we have actually challenged, we are no longer problematic at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Okay. Anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] The debate is closed. We're moving on to decision-making. I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote. 65 Members and Members are present. 45 for, 17 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the completion of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? I conclude the debate and also point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. Let's vote. 69 Members and Members are present. 53 voted in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchase on the basis of the law on the property transformation of enterprises. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Dear Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia justifies the reduced procedure with the content of the problem governed by this law. It's a technical issue. To a large extent, these are technical issues that have an impact on the way and system for the allocation of development incentives for the creation of an indigenous economic base of indigenous national communities. In short, the effect of this law will be immediate, within 15 days, in the dictatorship, certain matters will happen, which will allow Slovenian citizens, members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities to resolve problems, specific problems that arise. For at least a year, it's known that these problems are. And about a year or so, this problem has been resolved. We have now come to a solution, we are at the end of this solution, which promises a solution for these Slovenian citizens. The problem is why we're late. Why did it have to run out a year after the problem came to light, and until the moment we rescue him in the National Assembly? Because there were two governments in between. The government has changed, the parliament has changed. These solutions, which we have built in, are solutions that require harmonisation of the law with the State aid control system. The coordination needed was substantial. Ladies and gentlemen, both from the opposition and from the position, I call on you not to discuss the situation of the Hungarian and Italian national communities and the systemic issues of financing the economic basis of these two communities. That's what we're talking about. However, there are technical issues related to implementation related to the situation of the people receiving these incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[No, no, ……]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Comrade Peterle, colleague of Battelli, colleague of the Possonian.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u16	I'd suggest you call my colleague Battelli first. Then I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Comrade Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that you also have my written proposal, whether it is on the way, for this law to be dealt with on a regular basis, otherwise in a way that the National Assembly would decide that the second reading would take place at the first autumn session and that it would then be merged into a second and third hearing and would be held under the roof in September. It's about the next one. What I am about to say is not to be understood as criticism to Mr Stromčnik, who has worked so hard to solve the problems that have accumulated, especially in Prekmurje, and whose abilities and energy have been used for this purpose, but not only for this purpose. I can say this justifiably because Mr Strumčnik was not informed in preparing this law about certain matters that were probably happening in this regard on purpose. In fact, this law was created in some way in secret. Its creation was not part of the national community. In no way did we know that he would even appear on the agenda two and a half days ago when we received the call for this meeting. The Commission for the National Community could not meet and discuss this law, because yesterday we had what we had on the agenda and until a certain hour, and yesterday, we know, it was actually a historic day. But there was no way the commission could meet. Members or representatives of the national communities from the coast disagreed with this law, and this was also stated in writing to the National Community Commission, and many of them refused to attend the National Communities Commission meeting because of this and because of the short reference, because of the time constraints. This law, of course, is dealing with some dramatic situation that is taking place in Prekmurje. But, you know, I'm also surprised the secretariat didn't notice that. This law changes the concept, this law changes the concept of creating an economic basis for national communities. It is said to be in the opposite direction from the direction indicated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the Privatisation Act and in the Purchase Act, where the talk on the right of the national community to its own economic base. The Privatisation Act imposed the same development fund at the time to create the economic basis of the national communities. He also imposed a law on purchases. This law deals with a distorted way of implementing these provisions and essentially destroys the concept of creating an economic basis for the national community. As a result, at least one normal consideration is needed on how and on the need to implement certain measures in this area. Not to be too long, but let's say all of the Hungarian, Hungarian national communities, the part that is not really recognised, but, however, in its great naivety, it also explicitly states that all the syntagms of creating an economic basis for national communities must be excluded from this text of the law and should be replaced by the financing of national mixed areas. So to an illustration. Regrettably, this law has a one-off that its implementation is likely to be very difficult under conditions that exist in Cyprus, Isola and Piran, which are areas that are not underdeveloped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Battelli. I give my word to my colleague Pozsonec if my colleague Peterle agrees. My colleague Pozsonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I agree and ask for support for a reduced procedure, because in our area the application of this law has in fact caused a dramatic situation. If this law can do anything, then it's in this marriage. What needs to be rectified can be done with the amendments. Of course we couldn't meet yesterday. We're an interested committee, but we'll meet on Tuesday. The parental committee has discussed it, and I believe that your amendment can be corrected. So I'm asking for support for a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u21	My friend Peterle has the floor. Before I give you my word, I would ask the National Assembly for the necessary silence, which allows the speaker to express his position without being disturbed. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I think it was right that the Member of both national minorities first came forward. I applied on behalf of New Slovenia for the reason that I was approached by a representative of the Italian national minority or the self-government community and asked to support the normal procedure in Parliament, even if communication with the government party was not possible or there was no response to their mail, if I say so. And I don't think it would be good in this country to have some stable attitude towards minorities that shouldn't be in the function of changing different governments, I don't think it would be right to change it. And I have to say that, as I appreciate the work of Secretary of State of Strumčnik, I was a little surprised by the justification why he is in such a terrible hurry once again, after a year obviously there was no problem or no one wanted to solve it. Now that we have the same government or under the same basic name again, suddenly it is a problem that the two governments have changed. We have a third government in one year, so to speak, but why is this problem now, and this is at least part of the minority or one minority is asking. I don't know how coordinated both of you are in this case, what interests are, but given what I've heard on this subject, I thought it was more - or we think - that it's more appropriate for us to follow the regular procedure and get to know more about it. I think that this communication is also necessary between the official representatives of the minority and government institutions. That's not what Battelli said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thanks, buddy Peterle. The government wants a word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first explain the issue of the involvement of minority institutions in the drafting of this law. This law has been prepared from the very beginning in an open, transparent manner. As a basis, a study was prepared, a research study. This study was publicly presented. The solutions presented by this law have been made public, including on television. It means that the minority, both minorities, were definitely involved, at least in the part where it concerns people specifically concerned. And if the institutions of minorities had listened to their needs, they probably wouldn't have had this debate today. Thus, I am here representing an interest - and I hope to state this because personally all these people come to my office - those citizens of Slovenia who took credit under this law have gone into trouble because of this and are also, by chance, Hungarian and Italian nationalities. In the first case, we are solving the problem here of people who are in trouble and who are Slovenian citizens. That's one. Second. For the formal consent of the minority, the institutions of minorities have run out of time for all of us. This is because I was not least surprised at the fact that we were able to find this consensus and even move the matter that had not moved before, not because it was supposed to happen because we did not coordinate and coordinate, but because our system is so oriented that very difficult initiatives concerning the specific lives of people come in time through the institutions of the system. Here we have a typical problem of the interest of people who are not party interests, not the interest of minorities, anyway. This law does not resolve all that Mr Battelli points out. I can and I promise that we will continue this debate to consider the economic basis of indigenous national communities, whether this law can be upgraded - surely it is possible. However, let us not take advantage of this procedure in order to discuss something that we can still discuss. In short, let us solve the problem of people and then resolve policy issues. I think it is essential that we approach this law in this way, and I am sure that the minority is able to overcome this problem and resolve it. So much more because, during the process, after we knew that the matter was going to happen quickly and that there was a possibility that the matter would take place quickly, we intensively coordinated ourselves with the Italian national community and found amendments, we brought the amendments into line, which, to a large extent, I would say, amount this new interest. Now, in the second part, let me draw your attention to one more question: that this law changes matters in terms of concept and content. This law does not do so, but is in line with the State Aid Control Act. It is coordinated in that part where the State Aid Control Act and European legislation, which we already have to respect since we signed the Association Agreement, prohibits giving incentives to businesses on the basis of national ownership. However, we can give incentives to areas, incentives to businesses in an area that is ethnically mixed and, I would say, to members of the national economic base of indigenous national communities. The law still provides that this law is intended to promote the economic basis of indigenous national communities, but by a footnote,"in areas which are mixed by nationality." It is a matter of harmonisation, technical harmonisation with another law and, in essence, it is not a substantive debate. The contents are the same as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u25	With an additional explanation from the government representative, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision. I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There were 49 colleagues and colleagues present, 32 supported by the proposal, 12 opposed it. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the law on higher education for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking for peace. We're in the middle of a procedure for the adoption of the agenda. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. I'm asking the government, does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[No, no, ……]] This time, too, a similar warning is given if at least one third of the Members present oppose this proposal, the proposal will not be adopted. We are voting on this. There were 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, one objecting to this proposal. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. At the conclusion of the 7th meeting, the National Assembly decided to refer the draft law on amendments and additions to the customs law at first reading to this extraordinary meeting. The assembly will consider that proposal to be the 10th item of the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. For today's meeting, I propose a agenda, as you have received by reference, and with an amendment adopted. We are voting on this proposal. The National Assembly shall decide on the agenda. There were 57 colleagues and colleagues present, 43 supported by the proposal, and 11 opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. At the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Kacin, I propose that the State Assembly meet on Wednesday after 2 p.m. My colleague Kacin, the chairman of the committee, will justify the reason. Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have just received both agreements, a nuclear power plant agreement and a border agreement from the government, so it is possible to organise a debate early next week and give our government a mandate to sign the border agreement. However, because I think there will be a need for an in-depth debate on this subject. [[The material is still confidential, a lot of cards will have to be provided]] I suggest that the Foreign Policy Committee, if supported by you, should be sitting on Wednesday at 9 a.m. and by 2 p.m., try to finish the discussion; if that were not the case, it would continue after 6 p.m. in the evening. In this way, with the consent of the Committee on Foreign Policy, we could agree on a date for the meeting of the Heads of Government and then for the signing of these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u27	I propose that we define ourselves before this proposal by voting. The proposal is to meet after 2 p.m. on Wednesday in order to enable the Foreign Policy Committee to carry out its work. I put this proposal to the vote. Please, let us vote on this proposal. Procedural? Let me just say the score first. 59 colleagues and colleagues are present. 38 voted in favour, 20 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President! In view of the precedent that took place at the beginning of the meeting, when it was rejected or withdrawn from the agenda by the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs, by the fact that the leader of the Group of Members has enforced its informal presidency of this National Assembly and has also lifted the dignity of you, Mr President, your authority, the question is whether the functioning of this National Assembly will be possible in the coming week. In fact, it seems that the government will be on vacation because it is not ready to answer the questions of the Member States. And that's why I'm interested in how this national assembly is going to work in the coming week. Will only Members sit here, or will representatives of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u29	I'm answering your procedural question that the National Assembly is in session. The government has been informed. It has responsibilities in accordance with its own and our competences in the work of the National Assembly and I have no information that there would be no such cooperation. In such a way that the National Assembly may decide on agenda items in full competence next week. We have thus concluded the issue of setting the agenda. This has been adopted and can be continued in accordance with it. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the liability of responsible persons and holders of public powers in respect of the purchase and sale of electricity, for the sake of cesar, the economic damage suffered by the system of Slovenian electricity was alleged to have been caused. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 30 Members and Members with first-signed Branko Kelemin submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I'm asking my friend Kelemino, does he want a word? He does. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Just for a little while. You've all received a request for an investigative commission. I hope you read it, too. Indeed, in view of the long-term procedure and the submission of a whole type of documentation and treatment to individual bodies in the national assembly or working bodies, in particular on the Committee on the Economy, we find that the Government and all those responsible for answering the questions raised have not provided these answers. They didn't give them in time. We also felt a certain ignorance in these answers and somehow hindering the resolution of these important issues. On this basis, of course, the Group of Members decided to submit a request for a parliamentary inquiry into these issues and would simply request that this investigation be introduced as soon as possible in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. I would only point out that I hope that this purpose of the investigation set out in this Act of the National Assembly takes full account, in accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, of the content set out or required in the application or request. In order not to make another call, I would only point out in the proposal for a decision that we do not agree with the proposal for a decision, but that we propose that, on the basis of or in accordance with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, where it states that the National Assembly appoints an investigative committee as a rule at the same meeting or at the latest at the next first meeting or, yes, at the latest at the first next meeting. I would therefore like to ask that the proposal for a decision be corrected, namely that the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission be in charge of submitting to the assembly a proposal for a decision on the establishment and composition of the Commission of Inquiry before the next meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the content and so on of the parliamentary inquiry. In short, I would like this proposal for a decision to be aligned with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure on the Parliamentary Investigative Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Comrade Kelemin, just an explanation. Once the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry, we will adopt a decision imposing on the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission to submit a motion for a decree to the assembly as soon as possible, in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry. And that could already happen in this session. That's it. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? I guess not. I conclude the general debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the assembly shall not vote on the request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the liability of the responsible persons and holders of powers regarding the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the Slovenian electricity system. The purpose of the investigation is, firstly, to determine the extent to which the responsible persons and public authorities were involved in the alleged injury to the Slovenian State in the purchase and sale of electricity in the system of the Slovenian electricity industry, and secondly, to determine the extent of the damage caused by the overpriced sale of electricity from the Croatian part of the Krško nuclear power plant. I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission shall, as soon as possible, submit to the assembly, in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry, a proposal for a decision establishing and drawing up an investigative commission." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing up. [[...]] Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What has happened in this area must be fully explored. The new Slovenia will strongly support and participate in this work, because we think it is high time for us to start putting in place in our country the clean accounts and the responsibilities of those who make decisions on our behalf, on behalf of all citizens and citizens, and do more than once with common things, as if they were really less than their own. Less than theirs. It is essential that Slovenia finally understands once what has happened in this area. In our assessment of the great damage to the common economy and we strongly support and we will also take this to come once to clean accounts in this area, and not as it has been in this 10-year history of our country, that the National Assembly has started some research, and then the last day everything has been lost and gone to waste. We will insist that once and for all in this area there will be a clear view and that we will exercise the responsibility of all in our country. Even those Members who do not listen now should be aware that we will never give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, if you don't disturb the National Assembly, we'll all be grateful. Anyone else want a word on this? Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I support the proposed decision you have made, but I would like to remind or tell those Members and Members who did not take part in the previous call of the national assembly that, in accordance with the law on the parliamentary investigative committee, a report of the parliamentary investigative commission should be considered at the latest at the last meeting of the national assembly of the same call, which he appointed. The task of the Parliamentary Investigative Commission and its President is to prepare the report. If the parliamentary inquiry is not completed, it is the task of the State Assembly to present and tell the reasons. However, it is not stated in the Rules of Procedure or in the Law that the report of the parliamentary inquiry at the last session of the State Assembly is not being carried out. There is no legal basis for members of the National Assembly to vote on the withdrawal of the item from the agenda. Dear colleagues, this has happened in the previous term. This happened at the last meeting of the previous term. When we sent a written request to explain to the State Assembly what had happened, we did not receive an answer until today; I would like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u35	My friend Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u36	And all I want is for this mandate to respect the legislation adopted in this National Assembly, including for you, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of the Coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u37	I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! Mr President, you, as well as the secretariat, would ask whether, when you have in fact reduced this order of the parliamentary commission of inquiry slightly, whether this means a reduction in its powers and whether this is still in accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. In fact, the second paragraph of Article 4 states: "The request for a parliamentary inquiry shall not be voted on by the National Assembly. The act by which the parliamentary inquiry is ordered on request shall fully summarise the content of the application for the regulation of the parliamentary investigation and the requirements..." and so on. Does that mean that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Comrade Kelemin, the diction has been prescribed, otherwise it can't be, and this discussion has already been held - we have adopted the act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Please discuss the proposal for a decision - please, Comrade Podobnik - the decision imposing on the Elections and Appointments Commission to decide on the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In some ways, I feel obliged to call on this decision, given the experience of how important it is that the Commissions of Inquiry start working as soon as possible. In fact, as has been pointed out so many times, in view of the experience of the previous mandate, I know that the investigative commission I led has submitted a final report, which was unanimously adopted in May of last year. Then, due to the interference in some way, the largest group of Members moved from the agenda of the meeting to the meeting and the National Assembly did not consider this report. As a result of this decision, in fact, I am asking whether our Rules of Procedure should in some way not provide that, when a 30-member request for the establishment of a parliamentary commission is in force, it will, of course, not be concluded by the State Assembly and will in any way be introduced, but it is not logical that the competent commission, when it receives such a request for an investigative commission, will immediately request that the parliamentary groups submit their candidates as members of the investigative commission. In fact, if that were the case, of course we are now late, but I suggest that it would be a coincidence for the parties to be invited to nominate their candidates for membership in this committee this week, and that, as part of this appointment meeting, the nominee composition of this committee will also be voted on. I'm warning you again. It is extremely important not to interfere with the work of the Commission. Unfortunately, such experiences were in the previous mandate - there were no spaces, there were no professional colleagues and it was in some way delayed. As a result, even on the basis of this delay, obstacles to the fact that the investigative commissions did not complete this work by obtaining a final report at the assembly, which then causes malicious manipulation in the public, that the investigative commissions were not successful, that they did not finish their work. In the previous mandate, as far as I know, everything except the one about Dadas has finished their work, but on the basis of this obstruction, the lack of political will and, in fact, the fear that such reports would be adopted in force, and then this obstruction did not actually occur in this assembly, the epilogue envisaged in the Rules of Procedure. However, the Commissions of Inquiry have completed their work and should take care of all conditions for the work of the Commission of Inquiry as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u43	My friend Lavrinc wants a word. I'm warning the National Assembly that he's the only one with a word right now. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find that anyone who has 5 minutes of time can spit on this largest group of Members. This is the first fact that cannot be overlooked. Secondly: Ladies and gentlemen, legislation in this area is poor. Why? Because it allows for the multiplication of these commissions to become practical. He doesn't limit them, and he doesn't put his hands on them. And it is not always a problem in people, i.e. in the National Assembly, in Members, but it is simply that the commissions in previous mandates have multiplied as rabbits in goods. And that's gonna have to be fixed sometime. That's the first one. Second. I believe that people who believe that it is the power with some investigative commissions to replace the institutions that we have in this country to investigate crime, that is madness. Commissions of inquiry abroad, in some normal developed area, are exceptions to the rules. I wish this committee a good job, a good job, because I doubt some things myself, and I will try to help you even in collecting evidence, but do not use this discussion to convince you now, you can also make sure and the journalists will write something nice about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Replica to Mr. Lavrinc. If there are many crooks in the country, there must also be many investigative commissions. Unfortunately in the Slovenian case it is not the exceptions that Mr Lavrinc was talking about, but unfortunately for the rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Comrade Pukšič, behind him colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u48	I agree with that part when my colleague Lavrinc said that parliamentary investigative committees were supposed to be exceptions. Yes, and that is when the institutional options were either exploited or disabled. By the way, I would only warn you that the institutional capacity of someone to bring them to prison was, where they were tried under the judgment of the court, nullified by the amendment of the law, the penal code and the law on criminal proceedings in Parliament, the judgments handed down were, of course, obsolete from 1.1.1995 because the legislation was amended. To that judge, who, of course, did not write the judgment within 15 days, but of course Mr Lavrinc knows this as a lawyer, nothing has happened or is a lawyer today. It's an anomaly. Therefore, there are no other instruments than the parliamentary investigative commissions which, of course, draw attention to these great anomalies.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u49	I'll give my word to my colleague Jerovsk, then to my colleague Potsch. I would like to say that we are voting on a proposal for a decision imposing obligations on the committee responsible, and no more on the substantive aspects of this discussion, there will be a time for discussion, first in the investigative commission and then in the national assembly. I would therefore ask that we do not now interfere with the content of the act. First my colleague Jerovšek and then my colleague Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I must rephrase my colleague Lavrinz and strongly reject his claim that there was some spitting on the largest group in the country. The fact is that they also obstructed that meeting of the National Assembly would normally end and that, with similar conclusions, as the Institute of the Affairs of the Member States today, the reports of the Commissions of Inquiry were postponed from the meeting to the meeting. These are the facts. Nor is it necessary, Mr. Lavrinc, to spit under the law. Our law is not so bad, I agree that it is not complete, but many European countries with the tradition of parliamentary democracy have no law, but investigative commissions work very well. Don't fool the public that there's something terribly wrong with our legislation. These are delusions. And not to condemn legislation for multiplying these committees. What has already been highlighted here is that the Commissions may be more exceptional in other countries, but they also have much less abuse by public function holders. Looks like they got 'em. It is also an objective and subjective responsibility of state officials at a completely different level. I could have given you these cases, and we've had a lot of opportunities. We know how, let's say, in Belgium, three ministers stepped down in an hour when a criminal escaped from court. This does not happen to us that someone in this government you run from your party, who is aware of objective or subjective responsibilities. In this matter, we asked the Minister of State, when she was the Minister of State, with questions from the Member States. We did not get any answers or attend any of these meetings, nor was she on the Committee on the Economy when this topic was discussed. She's gone completely illegal. To this end, in order to put this whole thing behind us, and in some way to cover it up, the department has been transferred to another ministry, which continues with all its force in this area in some way that these profits from the sale of electricity through established client channels will be channelled elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u51	My friend Potts. He's been followed by a colleague of Lavrinz. Anyone else want a word? Please. You can join me, Comrade Potts, you can join us. There's someone left. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u52	In addition to Germany, only Slovenia has a minority investigation. It is introduced by the Constitution and the conditions for the initiation of this minority investigation are met. We are discussing free of charge whether we have any other option than to have a minority investigation launched. If we understood it that way, we would have adopted this decision without discussion today. The debate we have here today shows that the applicants of this minority investigation understand the investigation differently than it does in the law. Further, as a desire to politicise matters, but not to make specific, professional, responsible investigations into the case, but not to allow each Member, through an investigative commission, to evaluate, evaluate and evaluate the work of others, including to make assessments, as well as many accusations, which have unfortunately taken place in the work of these investigative commissions. I will be happy if it is not as this debate shows me, and I will be happy if we do the inquiry committee once in a short time and in a good way, as it should be, otherwise it will probably be useful to complete the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Comrade Lavrinc, his friend Pukšič is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Very short. Comrade Jerovšek, thank you very much for your contribution to the growth of our reputation in society. I'm sure after every show you've performed, our "raising" is growing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u55	This is not the subject of this debate. My friend Puksich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u56	That's all I'd say. Who wanted an organization? The one who suggested that the National Assembly did something contrary to the law and the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u57	I intervened several times in the debate and, after several debaters, warned that we were going beyond the purpose of this debate. This debate only takes place on a proposal for a decision to impose on the committee responsible, to elect the committee. That is why I would like to ask everyone who will now sign up to the word that they are sticking to it, or I will go to the debate. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In fact, this is a question for my colleague Potch. If I have correctly understood your assessment that in the presentation of those we have proposed that this commission begin its work at all, you see some politicisation. I'd like to ask you what that means. How is it possible that the political issue would not be precisely that, on behalf of the officials of the state of Slovenia, strong and serious mistakes are made, with great economic consequences for the common good, and how this should not be political? I could also ask you how you would lead an expert. Do you think that they have done professionally what they have done, is it even possible to steal professionally or to make professional mistakes like they did in Eles's administration? I don't know what you see in politics, but what you're afraid of. Finally, it will be just a responsibility - it will be necessary to limit, find responsibility in this, limit those, and find out who all these people who have done these things are, and finally once and for all they must come to some punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Comrade Kelemin, no. My colleague Potts - I hope this is the last debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Mr Bajuk, look, your debate shows exactly how I think we should not approach this. You've already accused people of stealing in your debate. We can afford this as Members because we have immunity, only this is not an approach to resolving issues. I'm scared, and I don't want these things to happen the way they've been. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Anyone else want a word? My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u62	I remember a time when the etiquette of politicisation put away a lot of social criticism about the conduct of the patents that were in control at the time - politicisation was said, and it was a suspicious thing, whether it was a line or a line. Look, I don't care what it's gonna be called, whether it's political or something. But I want to know why someone can sell 2,6 under some authority, but why someone else is able to sell the same or the same energy at 8.5. And I know, but I know so much that you can sell at a price and still make a lot of money in some way. I want to know what this means for taxpayers' pockets and what it means, after all, for Slovenian households, who do not pay for 2.6. We need to get to that clarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I, too, would ask Mr Porč if he did not think that the politicisation was that they replaced Director Eles, who managed to sell electricity, not by 2.6, but by 8 tolars, and he created profits on this company, and the Supreme Court also found that it was an illegal exchange procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Please do not interfere with the content [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u66	That is why, in my opinion, this was a very large politicisation. At the same time, it is politicisation that electricity sold for 2.6 tolars and our citizens pay them 20 tolars. Don't you think it's politicization? In order for income to flow somewhere, to be very cheap, to be sold below the price, and for citizens to suffer a higher price, this is politicisation, and who caused this politicisation?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Colleagues and colleagues! For the first time in this mandate, we are deciding on an act setting up a parliamentary inquiry. We are all aware of the role and importance of such an act and of such a commission. I propose that we give her a better journey than this debate. I suggest that we do not continue in this sense, especially not that we are already addressing the content itself, because this is the task of the commission we are setting up. I therefore propose that we conclude this debate on the decision and move to a vote on the proposed decision. That's my suggestion. Okay. Would you like a word, colleague Anderlich? Please. Of course, I can't take anyone's word, that's clear. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u68	It's probably just a case that, just now that you've noticed your hand, you've reached into this discussion because you could have done it half an hour ago. Of course, the matter is quite clear. The law is here, whatever it is. The results of the investigative commissions so far have yielded results as they are. I am glad that we can set it up without discussion, so to speak, and it is right and we must set it up, because, on request, this commission is proposed. But I am also pleased that not only one government has been in power all the time, but it will be the subject of discussions and investigations. Mr Bajuk, I believe that at that time the government had also done something for six months and that it was not only monitoring what had happened before and so on. Make sure everything comes in and clears up. That is why I think that even this discussion, in the same way as it was, is proof of how the meeting is not being held and how it is necessary to regulate the work of the national assembly with the new rules of procedure on such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Comrade Anderlich, this is not a finding. It is a decision to entrust Kviaz with submitting to the assembly a motion for a decree as soon as possible, in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry. Members and Members shall have the right to debate in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. I have warned you that the content of the commission of inquiry is not to be interfered with. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. We'll vote differently. I therefore propose that we close the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote! We vote on the proposed decision. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. 48 supported by this proposal, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE PROTECTION AND HEALTH IN THE WORK, SHORT PROCEDURE. The bill was submitted by our fellow Member, Franci Rokavec, for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking him if he wants a word? [[He does.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Before I give you my word, I'd like to warn everyone who bothers work not to. Wait a minute, buddy Rokavec. I think you have the right to have no objection to the opening statement. Just for a second. Please, if you could all take your seats. Comrade Rockhead, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The essence of supplementing the law on safety and health at work is mainly to extend the time limit laid down in Article 60 of the Law, which states that employers must regulate safety and health at work within two years of the law's entry into force. In particular, they are employers who are self-employed, farmers or their family members, which the legislator re-entered in the provision of safety and health at work two years ago. There are over 50,000 of these people in our country. The proposed law thus extends the deadline for the said category of employers until the end of 2002. In doing so, it should be pointed out that some sub-legislative rules have been published quite late and that the content of the safety statement needs to be complemented by a risk assessment of the various areas of work and the size of the number of employees employed or the category of self-employed persons. According to the data available to me so far, a group of self-employed employers, entrepreneurs and farmers are very poorly prepared for the requirements of the law on safety and health at work. The main reasons for this need to be found in poor information. By proposing an extension of the deadline, it is thus possible to prepare the whole work process qualitatively for this segment, since it is likely that each country aims to ensure that citizens have secure working conditions in the workplace. In addition, I would like to point out that the arguments put forward during the submission have also been substantiated by associations of the economy, both the chambers of commerce and the chambers of commerce of Slovenia. Within two months of the adoption of the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the competent ministry prepared that regulation, which was machined last spring. Thus, employers had only a good year to prepare a safety statement with a risk assessment. So they haven't been available in two years, but at most one year. It was entirely illustrative that employers or companies authorised to produce a safety statement with a risk assessment could have access to it before the adoption of the said sub-law. Very serious preparations for making the said declaration have been made at the beginning of this year, when a number of associations, chambers organised consultations, seminars and other forms of education for employers in the field of safety and health at work, where a number of employers have also taken seriously the obligation to make a safety statement with a risk assessment for the first time. Let me also draw attention to the lack of medical professionals who will not be able to complete all the procedures required for all employers within the prescribed time limit. However, it may also be necessary to point out that there is a lack of rules on the method and procedure for carrying out preventive health checks and of the rules on keeping records under Article 39 of the Act. This is an additional argument to support the amendment adopted by the parent committee, with a view to extending the general deadline of adjustment or the whole introduction of the law for the whole category until 31.12.2001. All these facts thus justify amendments to the law on safety and health at work, and I therefore propose that, honourable Members and Members, after discussion, support the draft law with amendments to the home committee. And in the end, one small apology. The word protection at work, instead of safety at work, was written down by mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I invite the President, colleague Brenčič, to present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and representatives of the government, in the first place to the Minister, Dr Dimovski, who covers this area as Minister. The Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the draft law at its 8th regular session. On the proposal of the law, the members of the committee obtained further material from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the secretariat and the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which, of course, enabled the members of the committee to discuss the law well and prepare it for today's decision. The explanation was given to the members of the committee about the way it was before, so I would not repeat it. It is likely that a government representative will be involved in the discussion following the presentation of the law, possibly Minister Dimovski, so I would leave it to him. However, on the basis of the discussion by the representative of the Ministry of Labour, as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the State Secretary, and the arguments of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, there was then a relatively constructive debate between the members and the members of the Committee, pointing in particular to the fact that neither the risk assessment nor the statement of safety depended entirely on the status and size of the employer, but mainly on the job of the employer or his activity. It is in this activity that the self-employed and farmers are also affected - according to the arguments of the members. The fact is that some self-employed people are even more exposed to all possible risks because they themselves do very many different things. In the opinion of the members of the Committee, it is therefore necessary not to make an exception as all, including self-employed, are included in the insurance system and the solidarity system. The members of the Committee to supplement the draft law, which is intended to extend the application of the provisions of the law, support it. They did not agree, however, that the categories of individual employers should be further divided or defined and that different conditions or status of the employer should be laid down for them. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee considered that the legislative text, the proposal for a text, was appropriate for consideration at the meeting of the national assembly and also agreed that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In addition, the Committee first drafted an amendment to the Committee's amendment. In view of the fact that it was evident from the comments made by the secretariat that it was appropriate to clarify the text of Article 1 then the Committee, together with the Government's proposal, drafted its amendment, which essentially took the text of Article 1 into account, by regulating it more precisely. On this amendment, the Committee also proposed and adopted an amendment to the amendment, mainly on the basis of arguments from representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics of Slovenia and also some arguments from the State Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Mrs Zakotnikova. In this case, the amendment to the amendment should extend to all employers the period of validity of the Law from the 27th of this month, when this Act enters into force, and thus all employers should have all the matters imposed by the Law on Safety and Health at Work, including the most important act, that is a statement of safety and risk assessment. The arguments convinced the members of the committee that the amendment to the amendment had been adopted. We have also adopted an amendment to the title of the law, since it is no longer just a supplement to the law, since we have also amended the law with the amendment, it has also been necessary to change the title of the law and to identify it with the basic law in the very word of security. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to consider the law and adopt it following a reduced procedure, together with amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u75	I thank the Chairman of the Committee for explaining to the National Assembly the opinion on the draft law. I'm asking, does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please, Minister Dimovski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Dear Members and Members! We have a very important marriage ahead of us. On the basis of the views of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, the Government also identified the amendments adopted on this Committee. I would like to briefly state the position of the Government which it adopted at the correspondence meeting and which was also coordinated with the Ministry of Health in the proposal. As far as the two amendments, which are very important here, are concerned, Article 1 of the amendment, Article 1 of the amendment is not supported by the Government. It does not support the reasons that I will briefly state. First, the law was born five years, with a transitional period of two years. I would like to say that this law is in particular in line with the European directives, namely the 30 directives and regulations that have been created on the basis of this law in the last period, which is around 60 rules. In this respect, regular reporting to the European Commission has been carried out by the Ministry of Labour, a monitoring and monitoring body. In our view, however, it is necessary to say that health and safety at work is, above all, a reasonable term not as a cost, but rather as an investment in the workplace. Sooner or later these costs or investments will also be met by employers. However, it must be said that we actually understand the opinions of some employers that they may even have wasted time or a deadline in which they have to make a declaration of safety. However, this statement of security will have to be prepared as soon as possible. I could say that this statement of security may sometimes be exaggerated and that the statement to the public is, in particular, a statement that employers accept the responsibility that health and safety at work are in fact their own business. We have agreed, and this is also the reason for such non-support of the amendment, as regards the supervision policy with the inspectorate for work, that, as a rule, during the period up to 1.1, it is controlled by a more consultative nature, that, in particular, those who have done something in this area, the employers who have focused on preparing a statement of security, that we do not in any way issue decisions that have any financial implications or result from any penalty. In this respect, in particular, we have talked about the so-called regulatory decisions, which, in our view, are particularly relevant to employers, which, in this context, reduce the employer's costs in the long term. In short, I would also say that the Ministry of Labour and a number of implementing organisations had a number of activities to implement this law. At the same time, I would mention in particular around 500 different expert consultations, workshops and assistance in the development of methodologies. In the last month and a half or two months, we had extra for the needs of small employers of about 50 different seminars, where we have actually directly helped to produce safety statements or risk statements. The various activities that have been carried out in the context of worlds and others, including the Phar's project, I therefore think that maximum aid has been offered to ensure that this law is actually implemented. I'm stressing again. The purpose is not to interfere with or to be very opposed to the implementation of this law. I am talking about the fact that the Inspectorate for Work in the Policy of Control has the primary focus on giving regulatory decisions and that it is consultative in regulating this area. That's as far as the amendment to the committee's amendment is concerned. As regards the amendment under the second paragraph or the addition of the second paragraph to Article 1, the Government shall support such an amendment, in particular as it concerns smaller employers or self-employed persons, farmers and natural persons who are either alone or members of their economies. In fact, we think it makes sense to move this transitional period for these categories, which are not so small, after some calculations about 200 000, until 31.12.2002. He also agreed to this at the last meeting of the Economic and Social Council. The government also agrees with the title of the bill's proposal to amend it and such an amendment is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They want to.]] Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A nice welcome to the representatives of the government and to both ministers and, of course, also to you, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members. The Law on Safety and Health at Work was adopted or entered into force some two years ago and is being fully enforced, that is to say 27.7. In a substantive sense, this law does not constitute some revolutionary novelty, except that the law or safety at work builds on health and the role of medicine in this segment. However, most of the measures and most of the employer's duties were known and known by employers before. Some titles of certain documents may change or documents may be slightly more comprehensive, less comprehensive, or there are no new substantive issues. The essential novelty and essential contribution of this law is in the responsibility or in the clearly defined responsibility of employers and owners to ensure safety and health at work and also to the consequences if there are any negative consequences. Thus far, in the old Law on Protection and Health at Work it has been kind of a collective, shared self-government responsibility, but now it is a clearly defined responsibility of owners and employers. This is an essential novelty of this law, and I believe that this vital novelty has come into force two years ago and not now. It is true, however, that the law provided for a two-year deadline for the harmonisation of those documents, namely, for the production of a risk assessment, for the production of a safety statement for all employers. Two years ago, I was employed by the labour inspectorate, and we then assumed that these documents would be made more easily by smaller employers, because they would somehow have fewer jobs, and later by larger employers, such as, for example, some factories with thousands and more employees. Of course it didn't happen that way. We would expect employers to come forward with all the necessary tasks when this law is in force, but this was not the case. This has only begun to take place in the spring of this year or at the beginning of this year. I would like to point out the reasons why this is the case. I believe that the employers' association, as well as employers themselves, have done little in themselves, but in particular here I am talking about associations - the trade and economic chambers a year ago, not much about these problems, but for the last six months it has been actively monitoring these matters. Therefore, we are currently in the situation that if the law were to be fully in force, more than 50% of employers would be in breach of the law. Unfortunately, we note that this situation shows, I would say, the relatively poor attitude of Slovenian employers towards the values of the rule of law, to what we somehow enforce here, we accept. Usually we wave our hand and only when the water starts to flow into our throats, only then does it freeze us, sober us, and only then do we start to react seriously to these things. I think that the underlying cause of the situation and also this novelty of the law is in dealing with what should have been resolved a year ago. In principle, we support this novel in the Social Democratic Party, for two reasons in particular. Because we must not allow more than half of the citizens to break the law in our country; we believe that this would be a bit of a mockery of the rule of law. It also seems essential to us that the government did not draw up sub-laws two years ago, so that employers would really have two years of time to prepare themselves. We need to know that it is a basic document, a document that defines a statement of safety and risk assessment, was approximately published and saw the light only about one year ago. We therefore consider that certain reasons for extending this period of entry into force or for the application of the provisions of the Law on Safety and Health at Work to be justified a little later. However, I hope that this extension will not again encourage employers to wave their hand again and say that in just three months we will see how and listen to it again. However, I would like to answer the question, namely, the Secretary-General of the Government or the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Does the National Assembly already have these documents, that is, a statement of security, and perhaps the Ministry of Labour? There is also the Minister for the Information Society. I want to know how the state adheres to these rules that we adopt here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Thank you. The Secretary-General will, of course, respond when the time is right. Mag. Visjak spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. The word has magic. Petty Officer, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and, of course, to representatives of the government. The New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, of course, agrees that we must have safe and healthy work provided in Slovenia by all, and this must protect and ensure an appropriate law. With the changes we are now making, we are correcting the law. I have warned several times that when we adopt laws, we are under-appreciated or under-appreciated by the lawmaker. Of course, the legal provisions are binding and must also act by force. However, it is not possible for the law to work forcefully if it is not actually possible to enforce it. And this has also proved to be true in this law. No technical reasons were taken into account, no human resources reasons were taken into account, those professional advisers we have at our disposal in order to ensure the necessary willingness of employers to work safely and healthyly. The problem arose in the declaration of safety at work and the risk assessment for the employer. In Nova Slovenija we believe that it is necessary to ensure safe and healthy work, regardless of the size of the employer. However, in this context, we could set up instruments, possibly horizontal financial assistance, to implement such a measure. We are often helping businesses in an inappropriate way, which is also a warning from other European Union countries in terms of adapting our legislation and adapting our behaviour. In this case, state resources could also be allocated because they would be allocated to all under the same conditions. It can happen, given how we are going to have to postpone the validity of these provisions once again. The law is truly ready at a high professional level, as the foreigners have told us. At that time, however, they doubted the very execution that we would do everything so quickly, given the characteristics of our market. We therefore support that this is regulated for all employers, but it is necessary to take account of the size of the company or of the Committee's amendment. So another mistake was made, and employers were not informed. I think this is where the employers' union passed the exam. However, it is also likely that the country could better inform employers of what awaits them during this transitional period. Otherwise, on behalf of the Group of Members, I can say that we will support the amendment law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Does he want to discuss another representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go. Danica Simsic, united list.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Minister and others. In the parliamentary group of the Joint List of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on safety and health at work. I would like to recall that the Law on Safety and Health at Work, in our view, is one of the fundamental laws that ensure safety and health at work for all employees. Therefore, its long-term acceptance was difficult for us to understand, but we were so much more pleased when it was adopted in 1999. In terms of safety and health at work, the law defined a relatively long transitional period with regard to the production of a safety statement with a risk assessment, i.e. a period of two years. Let me remind you that the law was passed on 30 June 1999, that it entered into force on 27 July 1999 and that its full implementation should actually come into force this week, in 2001. However, when we thoroughly examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law tabled in the parliamentary procedure by Mr Rokavec, we considered that his proposal was justified. It is, as has already been pointed out today, for self-employed people, for farmers and for those who are just in this household; the estimates are different, from 50,000 to 200,000 people working in this way. I must point out that, within the framework of the parliamentary group, as well as some associations, especially the labour union operating under the Joint List of Social Democrats, we have warned last year that there may be a failure to respect the law so that it can take full effect as of this year. If all employers took the provisions of this law seriously, given that we already had very similar provisions years ago, in particular for employers, except for those for which Mr Rukavec proposed an amendment, of course, given the two-year transitional period of this safety statement, by means of a risk assessment, we would be able to fulfil or at least at this point in the stage of obtaining this declaration. In fact, we could say that if we are a little critical of employers or owners, that the proposed extension proposed by the mother's working body would actually reward those employers who have not taken their tasks and responsibilities seriously and who are not interested in health care and the safe work of employees and who have actually understood this paper and this obligation as just one more paper, not actually investing in people, in employees. Taking into account that data in recent years show that human safety at work has deteriorated considerably, that fatalities are in order, that the number of disability and permanent severe consequences are increased, it is even harder to understand that there are no such statements. Therefore, in the group of Members of the Joint List, we assess that it is valid to give support to the basic proposal of the law, and that is how we will vote in the majority of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group that wants to perform? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one has signed up for writing, so I limit the debate to five minutes. I'm Dr. Brace's emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed changes myself, but in these discussions, especially the last, but I would like to say that the implementation of the law is always a problem, the gap between normative and real is quite significant in Slovenia. And, of course, the normative idealism that has been heard from the words of Mrs Danice Simšič is also very, very common, I would say. To think that the risk assessment and the statement of safety will in itself improve things is, of course, excessive. In particular, I would like to appeal to the Minister of Labour, to the Minister of Education, to the culture, to all those who have in their own, how should I say, in their competence of the public institutions, but to do something to ensure that, for example, every eight-year-old does not pay 300,000 dollars for a risk assessment and a statement of security or even more, because I have looked at it in direct practice and made sure that the text is exactly the same, only the name is different - now I am talking about high school and eight-year-olds. As a professor at the university, I also received a parliamentary statement, which I have to sign and so on. When I looked at this document, I saw that this is actually a bureaucratic act, which in no way contributes to improving safety and health at work, at least when it comes to teaching professions. I'm not saying it's not necessary at all. But I think we've been exaggerating and causing huge-cost eight-year-olds, kindergartens, schools of all kinds, public institutions, cultural institutions and so on. I am aware that only as a Member can I appeal to the government to take as an example a trade district chamber that has arranged for its members to prepare samples and then agree with the contractors or those who can make such statements to meet this legal obligation with some reasonable discount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I personally support this proposal by my fellow Member, Mr Rokavac, as well as the proposed amendments to the Committee. However, one comment could also be made on this amendment. I am sure that I have not objected to anyone in the previous term and that I somehow agree with the intentions of this law and, in my opinion, the fundamental purpose of the law is to somehow increase safety in the field of work and so on. As some other representatives have done, I would like to point out only with regard to these amendments and with regard to what is on the agenda today, that, in fact, with this requirement, we will not contribute in any way to actually increasing some safety at work. On the contrary. I'd warn you otherwise. Everyone who works, especially on farms, with some farming activity, is always extremely busy with time and hastens to do business as soon as possible due to weather conditions and so on. Now, in addition to all these obligations, he will have to deal with invaluable bureaucracy. Not only in this area, but also a whole series of other laws always impose new records, only if we look at various aids, and so on, where it is easy for these farmers and simple people to be burdened indefinitely, they will only be more so that I do not say nervously or psychologically burdened with some obligation or even the threat of inspectors and high penalties and so on and that this will contribute more to these people's dispersion and burdens, more than ever. I'm very afraid that's going to happen. I've heard this from a lot of people on the territory where I live. Of course, it is also a major cost, as has been said now. Thus, at the final stage, it really seems to me that it would be necessary now, on the basis of the experience we have accumulated, and at the same time the Ministry and the responsible services, to try to think in this direction, so that the law may change in the near future and prepare itself more for life. If we strictly implement this law, as it is written, I feel that we will only contribute to a drastic reduction in the number of these legal entities. However, I do not know if this will contribute to the creation of some major systems, which is even possible in the background of some of the intentions of this law and a whole range of other obligations that our citizens face as direct producers. So much for the footnote and also for the request, if this matter could be analysed in the future and then also prepared any amendments or amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Thank you. I don't know if I have a word, or I'd have gotten up earlier if I wasn't too busy looking for my last name there. See, this has already been pointed out twice, somehow the gap between the normative and actual provision of the law on safety and health at work. I would like to point out that, until now, that is to say all of these twenty, thirty years ago, we had normative safety and health at work, which is well guaranteed. If all employers respected the previous Law on Protection and Health at Work, they would not have so much work to do in producing or adapting new legislation. The problem was that in most cases they did not respect the previous law, and I believe they will not. I therefore appeal here to the government representative or to the Minister for Labour to do something, however, also on economic incentives to ensure measures. This is said to focus the core and the tendency on ensuring real security, that is to say, ensuring that the measures are implemented, but not only that these measures are recorded somewhere on the table. This means and I see it only through economic incentives. This is because in some cases the employer is exempt from certain contributions or lower contributions if it provides a satisfactory or even higher level of safety and health measures at work. I say here, above all, that the insurance rates in case of injury at work should depend on the risk that the insurance rates there should be higher, where the frequency of accidents is higher and similar. Here I believe that the key to solving the problems of effectively ensuring safety and health at work with employers is also, which I believe will have a significantly greater impact on what we all want. This is that there will also actually be fewer injuries and, of course, fatal accidents in nature and practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Thank you. Dr. Gaber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say myself that, of course, I support the shift in time and the additions adopted by the Committee. However, what I think should be considered hereafter is that, in accordance with the Government's anti-biocratic and, I don't know, what policy we are seriously considering in every law, what obligations we are imposing on the entities involved and what costs we are causing to this entity. For now, I don't think we have anything left to do but move our hands. At the same time, we are probably proposing to the Ministry that it simply come up with a rationalised proposal that might save someone from what is not necessary and is merely formalism and is actually a waste in this case of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I would like to join all those previous debaters who have assessed this situation as it is in companies today, with independent employers and others. The problem really isn't that simple. Somehow in general I didn't agree to that postponement of some marriage. However, I have been to a regional trade hall in my area several times and have come to know the real problems employers face today. Only in this recent period have they been able to help professional institutions and those involved in this work a little more. Employers are really meeting up with a bunch of purely bureaucratic fill-in forms and so on, and this week, I believe that many of the employers will not reach it. I was appalled when I heard from some even "I, what is it, whether we should have it" that they hadn't heard about it a month ago. I don't know if anyone's been informing them, either probably not from the study or from some of the others who don't belong. For these reasons, I also join in looking here at a little life on this issue and supporting what the Committee has adopted, as well as the amendment to this second part by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Simšičov has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that again, Mr Vice President. In fact, I would like to say a few more words about how things are regulated and how they can actually be done and how things have changed over the past few years or, say, over the past ten years. Previously, we have heard that it was expected that those employers who have fewer employees would be able to handle all these things. That's what the profession thought, not politics. But the profession was wrong here, too. And if, in the light of the fact that we have 90% of such employers in Slovenia who employ between 0 and 4 people, it is said that they are considered to carry out a safety assessment with a risk assessment, in fact little work in relation to the number of jobs and, of course, given the complexity of the conditions in which these people are employed, they could really estimate that most of these statements in the law will be fulfilled. On the other hand, in general, all companies and all companies that employ a lot more people have very little to do with this obligation, and at least this has to be considered a good one. That's the first thing. Secondly, I would like to recall that when the companies restructured, first of all they started to save in the research sector, and immediately thereafter, in safety at work, all security engineers were fired, and also in health care, the outpatients were shut down, doctors were abandoned, and so on. So, there is a partial gap, and in this regard I would like to ask the Minister how they plan and how they will primarily help self-employed and farmers in simplifying compliance with the forms and forms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you. Member Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Besides, I wanted to come by after the amendment, and Dr. Gaber encouraged me to come by now, which he did very well and correctly assess. It is true that the law provided for a two-year period for everything to be prepared before the law enters into force. The law must be in force as soon as possible because this law provides a basic basis for assessing the increased risk on the basis of which the employer’s contribution to health insurance will also be differentiated. However, when we adopted this law two years ago, it was clear from the title of the Chamber of Economics that it would not be possible to provide sufficient professional staff, especially medical professionals. And this has also proved to be true in practice. This is also in defense of large companies. If we do not move away from the deadline for the enforcement of the law for all employers, then - otherwise, the Minister said that no decision would be taken. This law has relatively strong or large legal sanctions, and it is right to have them. To enforce the law, not to issue a decision, not to execute it in the penal segment, I do not think it is legally most correct. The fact is, there are quite a few circumstances that also help employers. Look, this week the Chamber of Commerce analyzed the situation - yesterday I got the analysis - of the good 45,000 pledges has a prepared statement and all it takes is 18%, 42 is in implementation and 42 is still kind of open. In particular, we have pointed out that they simply cannot; defined employers, particularly in the field of economy, production activities, should be treated as a specific activity for each employer. And it's easy now for the professional institutions that are implementing to raise the price so high that it's already above some normal level, you know. So for a number of reasons, I think it's more prudent to behave rationally, that the law goes into effect for all of 31.12. of this year, for the specifics as well as for the government to agree with it, but only in 2002, these are farmers and so on, because [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the specificity of how to produce a risk assessment and so on. [[...]] Thus, it will be more legally correct to confirm the amendment to the amendment which the committee has made and the law as a whole enters into force, but it does not come into force now, but we will somehow make it available to the inspectors to look through the fingers at whom, but you know. This is again "discussual" and very dependent, personally dependent. By almost asking in this performance all Members and Members to define themselves, as was the last Committee on the basis of a lengthy discussion and substantial contributions, both ministries, and of course the Ministry of Labour argued more that there was no need to extend the deadline for everyone, while the Ministry of Health had arguments that had been heard, and especially the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, regardless of the fact that large companies have a support and that they also have professional staff that this has been made. There won't be a legal void. The rules on safety at work, which are now an integral part of the labour law, will apply to each employer until 31.12. It is true, however, that then the law comes into existence with all the criminal provisions and must also be implemented because they need to be implemented, because this is primarily for the benefit of the health of workers and also for the benefit of the entire healthcare system, which is mainly affected by this increase in risk or the lack of safety concerns in increasing the risk of employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Member of the Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u98	I would seize the opportunity because we have a minister here and I would ask - if the amendment to the amendment would not be accepted and, of course, 50 per cent of employers would be able to break the law and, of course, the minister is aware of it, the inspection services are familiar, of course, the minister will have to act, although 50 per cent, this is a large number - what will the ministry do with all this mass of violation of the law if the amendment is not adopted? Of course, the minister will be guilty if he does not act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is from Dr. Dimovski, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you so much for the discussion. I would briefly try to answer some of the questions that have been asked here, some implicitly, some more explicitly. First thing I want to say. It may have been suggested from the discussion that this is a law that in some ways imposes some upon employers. That's actually not true. The fact is, in fact, health and safety at work is in some way also an interest of employers. And in this sense, I do not see any distinction as to whether health and safety at work would not be an interest and, in fact, this law is also important in this sense, and also in this sense, this means some additional investment to reduce some of the risks that it may in some way entail. Secondly, it has to be said that the debate has shown that, for example, the degree of bureaucracy in this law is high. The fact is that the law is in line with the European Union. It was coordinated for about five years, so that, in fact, during the period of coordination and adoption of this law, which began 7 years ago, that is to say somewhere in 1994, 1995, was adopted in 1999, and that this is the law that has the longest transitional period in the history of any law. That's all you have to say. However, I agree with the fact that some employers may have underestimated the preparation of a risk statement and, in this sense, it is likely that what the ministry has been doing very intensively over the past period, through various seminars; in fact, together with those employers who wanted to, it also prepared and assisted in the preparation of the declaration. So that there was some very active aid and throughout this period of implementation of this transitional period, as I have already said at the outset, some 500 such different seminars, aids, worlds and so on have been carried out, in addition to the fact that the various implementing organisations, associations and the like have proposed certain changes in this regard and have also assisted in the preparation of this security statement. During that time, most of the sub-laws were also produced. And there aren't so many of these submarital acts. The rules, which were generally also in line with the Economic Social Council, were gradually becoming applicable. As far as this is concerned. Now, as far as the ministry is concerned, what Mrs Simšič asked, in this way, the Ministry has the opportunity and competence to assist in various seminars, consultations and so forth, or directly, through the Office of Health and Safety at Work, or through certain assistance from the Inspectorate for Work in the part where the Labour Inspectorate is responsible, or, rather, I would say, directly with the various executive organisations employed at the Ministry. On the specific question of the Member of Parliament on what the Minister will actually do, we know what the powers are, and I also said that the Labour Inspectorate has prepared itself for such a position of implementation of this law, including days ago the opinion of the Republic Labour Inspector that the Labour Inspectorate is ready. In most cases, if certain infringements of the law were to be made, the labour inspector would, of course, issue regulatory decisions and a period within which certain irregularities must be corrected, that is to say non-conformity for work. In this sense is the answer, Mr Sugar, to your question. This is said to be the case, in most cases regulatory decisions shall be issued and the period by which certain irregularities arising from the law must be eliminated by employers. As for the question of the Ambassador of Vision. The Ministry of Labour has a statement on security since May of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles. Please take into account the report of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons of 10.7.2001. Do we have that? I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. We have an amendment to the amendment and an amendment to the committee. We also have, of course, the views of the government, by not supporting the amendment to the amendment, but by supporting the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'll just add a few words to what I said before. In fact, it is true that the whole species, especially small employers, who have up to 50 employees there, underestimated the requirements of the law slightly and, of course, expected little from each other, as Dr. Brejc may have found for certain very comparable things. But in the field of production, including service, there are such specifics that then, of course, how the medical doctor is doing this, they will all fall in line. So it's impossible at this time, because I say, to realize it. Therefore, I tell you much more clearly, it is much more prudent to impose enforcement at the end of December, and thus the law will be subject to sanctions in all its contents from 1.1.2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We'll decide on the amendment to the amendment. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members, 43, against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 48 for, against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment has been adopted.We are still voting on the article as a whole. Oh, I'm sorry. The article was changed. We still vote on Article 2. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] As you've noticed, an amendment has been tabled to the title of the law. We are voting on an amendment to the title of the law. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the new address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Article 1 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] We have therefore ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and 55 Members present, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. We still have an additional decision by the New Slovenia Group on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to talk? Please, Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members. I don't know if such and similar additional conclusions reach the government to the heart, but it would be good if they could. This Decision actually complements what has already been said in the debate by some Members. So, as I was following, Dr. Brace, Dr. Gaber, Mr. Pohorec, then Mag. It's a trifle. It is, however, that, following these changes that we have received today, the government, once we have extended this deadline, should re-examine the sense that certain categories, such as farmers and self-employed craftsmen, require some statement, some of the laboratories on safety at work. Above all, I would like to refrain somewhat from the situation in our agriculture. See, here from the very explanation is actually written what the situation in the area of agriculture in Slovenia is today. I am very sorry that, in fact, there is no obedience to this issue in this national assembly. Let's accept some facts, I would say, some parquet legislation that has no real connection to real life in this Slovenia. Brussels laws are being copied, but there is no doubt about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Members and Members of the Peace Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Undoubtedly it must be said that, of course, when comparing Slovenian agriculture, there is no way that we can derive from the fact that Slovenian agriculture is comparable to European agriculture. Our farms, as it is written here, are on average very small, our farmers are old, and now they are ordered by some law to pay or carry out some declaration of protection at work. And I can't imagine what these statements would look like in the fact that, of course, our agriculture is far from specialised. Look, our farmer is - just a few professions I'll count that he's doing - he's a reaper in the morning, then he's a farmer, then he's a farmer, then he's a little wine grower, a little chatter, a little woodsman, then he's a mechanic, then he could list and so on and so on and so on. I don't know how the government imagines and all those who you are, I'm just gonna say the stupid thing that you wrote in this marriage, how you imagine, what an elaboratory it will have made. Or it'll be easy what Dr. Brace said. So, he's going to get some file, some statement, counted by a certain institution, for which he's going to charge so much and so much money, and it's going to be done. But if he doesn't have it, the inspector will punish him with so much and so much money. I believe and know that there are many accidents in agriculture. And I am not opposed to a growing security trend in this area. However, I am sure that this matter could be handled in a different way. We have a network of field advisory services that could be included in this matter, particularly in the areas of awareness, awareness, education, assistance. The country could also help in this transition transition, in this adjustment to the accession to the European Union to these categories of elderly farmers who themselves are not capable of doing so, and in some ways would help, but not in this way, I would say legally formalistically: this and you must have, if you do not have it, we will punish you as Mr Brejc said before, with very high penalties. I appeal to the government. Now, with the extension of this period, you have enough time to think these matters through again and do everything you can to help this Slovenian farmer and this self-employed farmer, who has no employees, and we do not work at unnecessary costs, and in the end, the coalition has written in its coalition contract that it will fight bureaucracy in all areas. You've written down your anti-birocratic programs, then it's up to you to start respecting this, not to add and increase and produce bureaucracy from marriage. I don't know why the press won't see you for this, but in Parliament personally, this rest of the term that I have left has been telling you over and over and over again, because the situation in the field of Slovenian agriculture is sad, it is worrying and not the way it can be seen here from Ljubljana. I believe that a lot of people don't know that a cow has four tits and that it needs to be breast-fed. Since you adopted a rule last year, the government has adopted one rule, which is complete nonsense, that those who breastfeed cows must have medical checks performed. That's what I went to see in German law, it's true if they're selling raw milk on the market, but not if they're giving milk, it's not debate now, but to say a comparison. No consideration shall be given if milk goes into the dairy as a raw material and is then pasteurised there, heat treated there and, as such, goes to the market. And that is simply impossible for our administrators and bureaucrats to tell. And what is the issue? Of course, the issue is that for this examination - someone has to have it in the family, but it doesn't matter who does the milking, only that he has - to pay, I don't know, in Ormož 20, on Ptuj 30, on Murski Sobota 35 000 and so on. This is nothing but a respected Member and Members of Parliament to reap the harvest of a squandered Slovenian farmer. I ask you to support this decision, but I will be very careful if the government takes it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is given by the apostle Jerovšek, the pardon of the Rokavec first, and then Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Well, I myself will support this proposal for a decision, but not in the sense that I am against ensuring the conditions of safety and health at work, especially in terms of working in the agricultural field. Because we know that people are almost the most at risk on this segment. And the greatest help to people for safe work would be to somehow be equipped with the most modern machines and technology. Of course, this is a long-term process, but it would probably make sense that in drawing up a safety statement for risk assessment, it would make sense to find out what is really what needs to be done and that in some way we would not be doing additional bureaucratic costs needlessly here. However, I think that the task of the country, in one package of comprehensive advisory networks, to ensure greater security in this area, would be very important. Let me just say one more thing to avoid. Indeed, the EU Council Directive, specifically for the self-employed and agricultural sectors, does not say that they are employers. We talked about this a lot on the committee. However, I think that the task of the State is to ensure that conditions are as secure as possible in any working process. Of course, in such a way that it will not be possible for those involved to carry out their basic activities simply because of formalistic bureaucratic procedures. But how to ensure security in this area, I think it is a much broader problem and a country's task. Nevertheless, I will support in this regard this proposal in its conclusion that, in some way, the content of the statement itself should be re-examined as to what we have also said on the Committee. The fact is that something else is a larger business than a trade shop with 10 employees or self-employed and similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Member Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I will also support this additional decision, because I think that in fact at this time and at this time it is not necessary to burden the Slovenian farmer in this way. Indeed, there is a rather large lack of knowledge of the problem, including safety at work on farmers. In fact, agricultural works are at great risk and there are also a lot of work accidents. Just as is foreseen here, I am sure that it is a bureaucratic action and it is the last time that this stampede burden of financial and bureaucratic, which has recently fallen upon the Slovenian farmer, has stopped. The Slovenian Government will also have to think about this activity in terms of the positive effects that settlement and farming have on it. This year and the previous year, the effects of mad cow disease and other diseases have also led to the fact that the country has invented a whole bunch of measures that are really European-adjusted, but the fact is, I'm sure that we are more papal than the pope and that our farmers are more burdened and somewhat disabled at the end of the year. All this contributes to the fact that there are increasingly fewer farms where it is possible to manage a particular economy. This represents a huge cost again, I am sure, but at the same time with some laboratory or with some statement we cannot bureaucraticly introduce all the conditions of safety at work. I am afraid that this will even contribute to the fact that when a farmer is injured, not a bad one, his own child, that after some official duty the doctor will have to write - I am afraid that this can be done in the way of working organisations - a report on a work accident and that farmers will also go to jail in easier cases instead of continuing to farm. See, the presence of not even thinking about the future of agriculture and agriculture, I see in all areas. At the beginning of the year, the government adopted a decree on slaughterhouse waste. It has set an extremely high price for the concessionaire, such extremely favourable conditions, and has now passed this on to the slaughterhouses, but they will transfer the costs to the farmer and the consumer. This reduces the economic potential of the economy each day. Therefore, I strongly support the intention of this conclusion that the State actually wonders whether, in this way, there is another way - for the competent services, the competent institutions of the country, which are largely and very intensively occupied, to send for different areas of agriculture, it is said, for livestock machinery, for planting, for agricultural, for specific guidance on how to best protect and improve safety at work in specific situations. [[...]] This would be the right way, this would be real help in working in agriculture, and it would also be in some way well received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss an additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 31, for 16. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Government or the Minister. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a law amending the law on postal services, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I'll be brief. I won't be long. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the law amending the postal service law is aligned with another law, the price control law. At the same time, I would like to make an explicit statement, which is also stated in our additional explanation, the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which is only a matter of harmonisation, but also a relatively important systemic issue. Indeed, this harmonisation actually excludes the provision of postal services over 1000 grams or between 100 and 1000 grams from the compulsory public service. These services over 1000 grams are already outside the compulsory public service. The considerations at hand and, of course, they are also rejected in the additional explanation are, in particular, two types. Firstly, does this mean that, because of this price in the field of postal services, more than 100 grams will skyrocket and, of course, they will be burdened, of course, by those who need such services; secondly, is this, of course, a threat to the universal success of a service that is no longer a compulsory public economic service? The answer is clear and rejected. First time. Already today, the public service at postal services ranges from 100 to 1000 grams, in fact, from the history of the past. For in this area, as well as in other areas, in the field of shipments and letters, there is a whole range of other private services organised as courier services [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u113	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u114	which actually provide these services, and the post office is already on the market in this segment and is already competing with various City-expressi, DHL-i, etc. [[...]] That's the first reason. Second reason. This is also the reason that, of course, prices will not jump like that, they will not change significantly, even, of course, the management of mail claims this and cannot afford it at all if they want to do the service at all. Of course, the reason for thinking about universal service or this is, of course, that, as in postal shipments now over 1,000 grams, so these shipments will now be over 100 grams and beyond, of course, will be carried out under Article 15 of the Postal Service Act, and therefore there is no fear, as practice has shown, even for shipments over 1,000 grams now in order to disturb this service. This certainly means a certain liberalisation, a declaration of liberalisation, a facilitation of the situation of the post adjustment in this interim period until the adoption of the new law and, of course, I would like to point out, at one point, that we agree with the amendment of the committee as it is written in this article or with the recasting of this single amendment. Of course, I recommend to the well-respected assembly that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please, Pohorec, Vice President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy has considered a proposal for a law amending the Postal Service Act. You have received the report and if we are not wasting time that is precious, I would not read it again, I would only make that final proposal for a decision. The Committee on the Economy agrees with the proposal of the proposer that the proposal be considered after the amendment of the postal service law, treated in a reduced manner, this is the first decision, which we have already adopted on the agenda. We have accepted the amendment that Article 1 should be amended to read as set out here in the report. In particular, in the Postal Service Act, Official Journal No. In the first paragraph of Article 4, the words "1000 g" shall be replaced by "100 g" and the words "and telegraph messages" shall be deleted. The explanation is given. And the final conclusion. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending the Postal Service Act be treated in a simplified manner and adopted together with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Barovich, Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we have assessed that it is appropriate to support a government proposal to amend the law for a simple reason, allow us to say why, in our opinion. In fact, according to the Post Office data, mail is considered to have the largest, very large losses in postal shipments between 1000 and 100 years. Article 10 of the Postal Law also states that this loss must be settled by the government, in which case the state writes in this article. If we adopt a government amendment, this loss will, of course, be much lower and the state money will be used instead of to settle this loss, which is followed by Article 10, for other benefits. At the same time, it seems to me that this is also an opportunity to legalise certain other services called courier services, such as the DHL, and so on, of course, which will now be able to do business in those differences that this amendment foresees. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Barovic spoke on behalf of the Slovenian Parliamentary Party. Member Sok has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u120	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mr Minister has reassured us and said that this does not mean in any way that prices are going to go up, and secondly that there is already a whole range of services that can provide these services and that they can compete in this area. I don't know, I'm not personally talking about this, and our Group of Members isn't so sure, but it can be true, but it certainly wanted, as a representative of the Group of Members, that Mr Minister would respond to some of the other dilemmas in this regard. First of all, I would say that it is a very interesting explanation by the government why the law should be adopted in a reduced procedure. The government states that it is a matter of harmonising the legal system. In my opinion, by the way, I also objected to the secretariat of the National Assembly, which warned that the Government had misused Rule 204.a of the Rules of Procedure here. However, it was then said that they had spoken to each other and that all of a sudden everything was fine. However, the question is certainly raised as to how the price control law, which entered into force in 1999, could have been inconsistent with the applicable postal service law, which entered into force two years earlier, that is, in 1997. So how is it possible that this discrepancy occurred and how is it possible that this mismatch worked until, I would say, in the middle of 2000, when the government suddenly found that this mismatch had to be eliminated after a reduced procedure. The second thing in the government's explanation is as follows. The government says: "We appreciate that the proposed amendment of the law will not result in disproportionate price increases, as there are already some companies operating in this area that provide such postal services outside the public service". So we'd like to know what is the share of these companies in the delivery segment. I am sure that the common market share of all these companies is very small, if not perhaps even negligible, and that this area of liberalisation actually brings - I must say that I agree with liberalisation, but this area of liberalisation mainly benefits the post which is a monopoly in this area and which, in our opinion, can, in accordance with the amendment of this law, raise prices according to its needs. At the time of the appointment of Minister Preseknik - at the time, telecommunications were part of the transport ministry, they were later eliminated - it was somehow announced that postal services would soon be extolled, increased, and I think that this is a pre-preparation in this area. It is also interesting that the exclusion of telegraph services from the scope of public economic services in the draft law is not at all justified. Let me get this straight. The National Assembly felt that the law was appropriate [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can you calm your coalition down a little bit?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u121	Yes, you can. I'm asking the Members to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u122	The majority of members of the National Assembly considered that the law was appropriate and therefore took a decision to deal with it following a reduced procedure, despite the fact that, from the opinion of the Committee, the working body, I see that there were also concerns about such and similar adoption of laws and that the Committee noted that, due to this speed, the Committee has often adopted bad and irregular laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I ask again, does anyone want to discuss it? From the Members, of course. [[He doesn't want to.]] There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Of course, I will be happy to answer the question raised. So, as far as the procedures are concerned, I think we've talked a lot about this on the committee, and I wouldn't repeat this discussion in a reduced procedure. Nevertheless, it is a matter of the fact that the postal service law, as it is, defined the public service and thus controlled prices up to 1000 grams and that this price control law has changed, this has always resulted in opposition to services within the government, whether prices are above 1000 grams, between 100 and 1000 grams of consent, unnecessary consent and so on. So once with a simple change of law, this nonconsistency and non-conformity had to be eliminated. Of course, as I have already mentioned, this removal goes in the direction of simply getting this segment out of the public service, it could go in some other direction, but why in that direction. Because we've evaluated, as I mentioned before, and not on this basis,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u125	Please, fellow Members of the Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u126	there is no need for this segment of postal services to still have as a public service, because, as we have said, there is already competition, which, of course, is not organised as a postal service, such as courier services and the like, and the post office itself wanted that, here I agree with the interpretation and justification of Mr Barovic's post office itself wanted to get rid of the heavy burden of public service and also begin to behave a little more consumerally in this area. Around the price, it must be said that just recently, the government has rejected the increase in postal services because, in our view, they have been overestimated, including these new prices, which will now be between 100 and 1000 grams, of course, the supervisory board will also decide where government representatives are and will not simply accept any incentives that they cannot afford because they cannot afford it because of competition. At this point, of course, I cannot answer the question of what is the share of other or alternative services providers, unfortunately not. But I know they mentioned some numbers to me at the post office that I couldn't mention right now because I don't think I'm sure about. But as we say, this is where other players come in, and it is right that mail adapts to the new situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the National Assembly, one issue that has also arisen in the debate in the home labour body. And that is that the government in its proposal wanted to design things in such a way as to achieve price liberalisation in this particular area along some very unusual path. This strange journey is that then there is no longer this matter of public service in this area. And I would like to point out what that means, at least in my opinion, what that means is that there will be no more public service. If it is a public service, then this Slovenian post office has the duty to carry out this service. Otherwise it would be possible, and therefore I would not have any difficulty in voting for this law if I had done it in such a way that it was the duty of the service to do so, but would have charged what is the normal price for such a service. That is why we are against adopting these laws in a reduced way, because we cannot go into this very issue in our entirety. For once in the debate in the working body and today I have not heard the true argument why, if we really want to achieve this only, that the post will have greater flexibility, as far as the price is concerned, I also believe the Minister's argument that there is already some competition there or competition. It's very possible that the post office won't have to push the price into some kind of will. However, in an area such as mail, which only has to provide certain services, why they have chosen to cross this strange path, that the principle of public service no longer applies to these services up to 1000 grams. There's also a true argument why we even had 1,000 grams, why not 5,000 grams or 100,000 grams. I have no answer to this question, but I would like to know why we must also exclude this service from the public service. However, I would just like to see that the duty of mail is maintained to actually perform such a service, regardless of the fact that prices can be liberalised at the same time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will, in principle, vote against it because we do not agree that such issues are being resolved in a swift manner. The House Law Service also had certain questions that we do not have a definitive answer to, as you are not all familiar with. But the fact is, we know there's been an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Just one warning. We have adopted the procedure at the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm well aware of that, but I haven't had a chance to say why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Member Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Only, if you please, a supplementary question to the Minister of Information Society. So, speaking of conditions of liberalisation, I've already said that we agree on that. However, under such conditions of liberalisation, we should therefore also know what competition we have. Because if one enterprise, one institution, is qualified for an area only, what I know, then liberalisation in this area does not bring us anything but that they can maximum wind prices and have no competition in order to reduce this. Secondly, the question arises to me whether this will not happen - so you have answered that you do not know how much competition there is, how much of others there is, you may now answer that which could be done - that in those areas where the performance of this service, which will be exempted from the public economic service system, it is not economical that it will simply not deliver these shipments in these areas in accordance with the expectations of the population. What is happening to us now is that in our area, where most agricultural areas, where households are very dispersed, newspapers are delivered every other day or even every third day. The magazine's been reading since Monday, and that makes no sense. It's just a big transmission problem. However, if this is part of the system of public economic services, then it is likely that there is a regulation on what the one who does it, I do not know, by concession or by what means, must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u133	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this with the Members? I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u134	I am happy to answer Dr. Bajuk's comment and, of course, to this question too, because they are very similar. In fact, let's put it that way. Article 4, which is now being amended, paragraph 2, states that " postal services which are not compulsory public economic services referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be free under the conditions laid down in Article 50, paragraph 1, of this Law". However, it says, of course, that these postal services - they are still postal services, only not public service - must be provided with a general rule on the conditions for the provision of postal services issued by the Minister responsible for transport and communications, when, of course, a convention of the world postal service defining that he must provide services, including between 100 and 1000 grams, as it now had to provide services over 100 grams, only with the difference that they were not a public service, but therefore prices were created freely; and secondly, that the government did not need to compensate for what it had never done. So the concern that the level of services will fall is entirely unfounded, as did the level of services in shipments over 1,000 grams now. In fact, I could have suggested that because it would be a little bit more, you could say, a little more freedom to increase the level of services to a greater degree, but not as has been said in the comments, because in the delivery of shipments, your mailers are actually trying to give you a ticket on the shortest possible route, then a notice about the shipment, and you have to go after it yourself. Then perhaps, as some have expressed themselves, they will follow you to deliver your mail. Like today, if I may say so, they can send champagne as a free service and congratulations and flowers and so on. In short, let's let this post office get ready to do this. And especially because she wants to and because the government actually withdraws from price control, but, of course, leave to the supervisory world all its competences, which only it has to have here, and it is clear at the same time that mail, if it wants to keep this segment, will not be able to go with any admiring prices in this area. Here the effects of liberalisation are expected to be good and I think it is difficult to be in words for liberalisation, but in every concrete measure to say that we are not really far enough here right now. I think that creeps this disharmony alert to this and that it is that we also do it by changing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u135	Thank you. Member Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u136	Just one sentence. Mr. Secretary. If there is no competition, then liberalisation does not mean what you say. I personally don't believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. There's a Member of Parliament, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, but why can't we have an answer to what kind of competition we have? That's the whole point of this question. If you can't tell us that the competition is what it is, we just can't understand why you're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Apparently there is still some disagreement or misunderstanding of arguments. Mr. Minister, you used these words: "If the mail wants to keep this service." And that's exactly what worries me most is that they're gonna start all of a sudden, and we're not gonna do this. We're not gonna work. But you used that word. Now I want to ask you one more nice question. Whether it is possible to write down or achieve such a goal that you obviously want to achieve by law. In order to adapt the prices to the actual cost of the post that the service provides. Or it can be done in some other way than by abolishing the public service. Because I think it's possible. This should be possible. But I would like to add another question, Mr Minister. If I may. May I? [[Yeah.]] One more question. You spoke in your presentation about the stiffness of this nature of public service. Did you simply think with this stiffness that she was subject to the government’s control of prices, or was there anything else at stake? That's exactly what I'm worried about. And that's why I'm concerned that you do things like this quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In view of the debate that is taking place on this issue, I have the feeling that there is something in the background other than what is being shown here today. Because of the doubts that have arisen and the failure to answer all these questions, as is the case with reality, I have certain concerns and I do not think I will be able to support such a proposal. In fact, I'm very interested in whether what you said, Mr. Minister, means that then these shipments will go from 100 grams to 1,000 grams, according to your assessment, if they are exempted from this set of controlled prices, will these prices be reduced? Because then I would understand that it makes sense, if these prices go down, then it makes sense to exclude them from this set, because now I feel that mail with these services is too much to earn - from 100 to 1,000 grams - and that it wants to exempt them from being cheaper. However, if you want to do so now that you actually change the law to cause the prices of shipments to increase from 100 grams to 1,000 grams, because they will be created free on the market, then this is not in my opinion to reduce some of the general operating costs of all operators facing these issues. And you don't want to tell us now how much mail on this basis is possible loss or profit in these shipments, if you have these analyses of 100 to 1,000 grams and so on, you don't answer these basic questions. I will tell you in truth if there is no answer to these key questions, that I will vote against this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u143	Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is from Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u144	I'm going to answer the question, although I'm probably going to get a negative, but okay, I'm going to try. First thing's next. Indeed, I know how much percentage of the services of other courier services are involved in the transfer of services over 100 grams. According to an estimate of the mail given to me on a visit to Maribor, this is already quite a bit of pressure and pressure. This is the first thing - this is an assessment that I can give right now. If we could prepare ourselves better or any other way, we could be more specific. Well, that's an important problem for the mail. So, that's the first thing. The other thing, whether there is a different, fairer or any other solution to achieve the same goal, is to relax, liberalise this market, and at the same time ensure that the post office provides these services - if I understand you correctly -; this is the way, the shortest, the best and the easiest. Why? Because, once again, I warn you, Article 15 is to be read. And under Article 15, your fear, of course, could only be realized if the Minister responsible for this area, in this case I, from the Regulation, threw out these services as those services which the post office is obliged to provide. It is still a duty to carry out them, but it is more free here as regards pricing and so on, it is no longer a public service. So in this sense, this is the best, the easiest way and the easiest way is not, and this is precisely what this goal has been achieved. Will the prices go down? Unfortunately, I have to say to Mr Kelemini that prices will not go down, prices will go up a little earlier - especially because they have been undervalued for many years, comparative analyses have been done here. At this point, the Slovenian Post Office has lost 2.8 billion tolls on the public service segment under all the measures that we have now imposed on it; we hope that the final result of the Post Office of Slovenia will be around zero, +, - what a million up or down that it will cover, of course this [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] will do well in the free services segment. [[...]] So let's give the post office the opportunity to swim in different waters that are happening - we want or we don't want - and let's, of course, give her this opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u145	Thank you. Member Kelemin has the floor, followed by Ambassador Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the Minister, Mr Minister for his response. Well, now you're actually kind of at the heart of this question, somehow you've touched on this answer. So the point is that in some way it is necessary to reduce the loss of mail in this kind of mail. Now, I have little doubt or if you have this information, if you think about how much this loss will go down, if we change this law, of course for the budget here there will be no financial implications, but for the post office as well as for sure. Then how much will the loss go down? But I don't think this is the solution to reducing this 2 billionth loss. I don't think that's gonna happen here. Therefore, the prices of all postal services should be increased, and again we know that this is not acceptable due to other elements: such a reduction in inflation and so on - because we know what else belongs here. I wonder if, in fact, this measure is one that will now make such a significant contribution to reducing this projected loss. I don't think so. I don't think so. Thus, it might also be possible to look for some other elements of rationalisation and a solution to this issue. Well, it's probably not a matter of this law now, but I see that you've confirmed that this change will not actually contribute significantly to reducing this loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u147	Thank you. The text is by Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to add to these explanations by the Minister, who I thank very much for giving them to him. Well, we're coming to a crucial decision. He made it very clear that, according to his assessment, this is the best thing to do in this way and that of course the obligation of this business, which should - should be done - the post office, will now be dependent - not on the law, but on the rules of procedure. I'm already ready, Mr. Secretary, to believe you won't put an end to this. But I don't want to see this happen behind the back of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u149	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. Members and Members, please take the report of the Committee on the Economy of 18.7. I hope we all have this material ahead of us. I shall give Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 for consideration. Anybody want to talk? Because it does not want to, I conclude the debate and we vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 1. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 19. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment was adopted. The Article was amended in its entirety. We are discussing another and then we are voting on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 36 to 19. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] Article 2 was adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the title of the law. We're voting, please. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 42, for 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The title of the law was adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] So we are done with the debate. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 38, for 19. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 19.]] The law was passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister and his associates. The 5th and 6th points are not yet prepared by the working body, so we move on to 7. It's a day's work. Please prepare the material. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON SUPPLEMENTING THE HIGH SCHOOL LAW, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the Minister want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. Without discussion, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this law on higher education be considered and adopted. The law has only 2 articles, and it allows only those who will be able to complete this school year 2001/2002 according to higher education programmes through old education programmes and thus enable some 1,000 students to complete their education after we adopt this law. The Committee has not proposed any amendments and I think we can adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? He doesn't seem to want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please. New Slovenia, Ana Tisovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u152	In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law is acceptable. We would only draw attention to the fact that with its short-sightedness, the legislator has caused students as well as higher education institutions to have a huge amount of unnecessary additional work and costs to deal with the issue until it is possible to complete their studies. The government could already provide in the original text of the law that a significant number of students will not be able to complete the study within the prescribed time limit due to objective difficulties. As a result, these students also had to deal with writing requests, research and concern for their future, instead of focusing as much on the study as possible. An extension of the study deadline by the end of next September is some realistic time within which those students who have the opportunity to complete the study and the appropriate motivation can complete the missing exams and write a diploma. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the law, and we also agree with the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Does any other parliamentary group want a word? Please, Mr. Cheligoy, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group agrees with this amendment to the Higher Education Act. The change will allow many, thousands of students to complete their studies and get a proper education. Since the committee and representatives of higher education institutions and trade unions supported this amendment, there is certainly no reason for the National Assembly to act differently. Therefore, our Group of Members will support this novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Does any other parliamentary group want a word? Mr. Diaci, Young People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group will certainly support this amendment of the law, although perhaps it should be stressed that the deadline for completing studies is too short for these students. My fellow Member, Levic, also asked the Minister about two meetings back, where the Minister spoke about the new programmes - two plus three, if I am not mistaken - but we think that this deadline may be a little short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group he'd like? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. The law has two articles and no amendments. I am opening the debate on Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on Article 1. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 has been adopted. I'm putting Article 2 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on Article 2. There are 49 Members and Members present for 46, against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the secretary and the co-worker. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was submitted by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The representatives of the State Council are not, as we can see, but, of course, they have been informed. No matter what, we're going to continue this point. Does the government want a word? The draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government, a representative of the government, a word? [[He does.]] Maria Ferlež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u158	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Government does not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law submitted by the State Council in the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u159	Just a minute. I'm asking the Members to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u160	The proposal for a law concerns two extensions of the application of a lower tax rate in the value added tax system, which the Government considers not justified. The first extension concerns veterinary services. These are taxed under the existing law at a lower tax rate in the part which is intended for agricultural production. However, the proposed extension proposes a lower tax rate for all veterinary services, which according to the Government is not in line with the basic purpose of applying a lower tax rate, nor is it appropriate to harmonise Slovenian tax legislation with European legislation. The second proposal of the Council of State concerns the introduction of a lower tax rate also for cut ornamental flowers, arguing that this will increase the competitiveness of domestic ornamental growers. The government considers that the proposed solution is not a suitable means to achieve this objective, as it is not possible to set different tax rates for the domestic production of goods and the equivalent imported goods in the VAT system, but a lower tax rate should also apply to imported cut flowers. Given the structure of consumption of imported and domestically obtained ornamental flowers, this measure would be particularly favourable for imports of cut flowers and not so much for domestic producers. In view of the conditions or deadlines set by the European Union to apply a lower tax rate on cut flowers, we can expect that the introduction of such a solution would also create additional complications in the negotiation with the European Union in the field of taxation. For these reasons, the government is proposing to the National Assembly that it reject the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much, government representatives. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law, the first consideration, is not adopted." Anybody want to talk? Because it does not want to, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting, please. 50 Members and Members present. 34 to 13. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Point 9 is not ready. Point 10 is not ready either. 10.a The point cannot be considered because the collection of signatures is still under way. We're moving to 11. On the contrary, this is a proposal for a summer plan for development and maintenance of motorways for the summer of 2001. The material was presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, of course we do not see any, because they are probably surprised that things are going so fast. They're on their way. Yes, I'm adjourning for 10 minutes, are we moving on? Is there any other suggestion? [[...]] Please, Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u162	I'll give you one procedure once. I don't know if we're gonna do much. I suggest that we adjourn the meeting in a procedural manner, and you decide that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-20-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Of course, I must put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 13. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 13.]] This concludes today's session. In short, I would like to say that we continue the meeting on Tuesday at 2 p.m. with agenda item 11. Thank you for your cooperation!
