ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u1	I ask Members and Members to come to the Chamber and also insert the voting cards into the voting apparatus, so that we will know roughly when we are concluding so that we can start the meeting. Although a lot of our colleagues are excused, given their surnames, I allow myself to assess that it is probably due to international obligations. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues and colleagues: Pukšič, Gerenčer, Grošelj, Juri, Kontič, Drobnic, Kacin, Horvat, Čebulj, Tanko, Jerovšek, Zamernik, colleague Rudolf Petan from 3 p.m., colleague of Kebrič for the beginning of the meeting, Sonja Areh Lavrič, colleague Gračner. This is a list of those who, therefore, are unable to attend today because of the suspension of the meeting. Please, by inserting a card into the voting device and pressing the "quorum" key, we will determine the presence in the hall. I think there are more of us in the hall, so once again I politely ask my colleagues and colleagues to report their presence in the hall by pressing the "quorum" button. 52 Members and Members are present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and everyone who is already among us and will join us hereafter, I welcome you very much. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The log is available in the computer network. Do any of the respected colleagues and colleagues request an amendment, a supplement or any other comment to the minutes? I guess not. In the absence of any comments to the minutes, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. I'm putting the minutes to the vote. There are 52 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 42 of whom have been supported by the proposal for the adoption of the minutes, and no one has objected. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 16 October 2001. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. I haven't received any suggestions so far. Does anyone want a word about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. According to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of the acquired activity of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the amendment of the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which are subject to a prohibition of operations with the State, public undertakings and public institutions in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the incompatibility of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the President or the rapporteur of the Commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 53 Members present in the Chamber and 42 votes in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. I have not received any other proposals for enlargement. Does anyone still want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial fees. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 46 supported by the proposal, and 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The first-signed group of Members, Dr Andrey Bajuk, tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the proponents, Dr. Bayuk, a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 52 supported them, 4 opposed him. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a shorter procedure. A group of Members with first-signed colleague Joseph Jerovsk submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does Comrade Jerovšek want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? [[Neither do I.]] I conclude the debate and, before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 45 voted in favour, 2 opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly has decided at its previous 8th meeting on the proposal for a bill on feed and a proposal for a law on self-contribution following a rapid procedure and for the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs following a reduced procedure, so these proposals need not be reconsidered. That is how we have come to the point where we can vote on the draft agenda in its entirety. I shall put such a proposal for a agenda for today's meeting to the vote. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The draft agenda was voted in favour of 50 and one objected. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] Colleagues and colleagues, I note that the agenda for the 9th meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. It's 2:16 p.m. Do you agree that with our questions and initiatives we start at 3 p.m.? At that time there is also television broadcasting, or we will start at dawn 15 minutes after the end of the agenda. So we start 15 minutes after the end of the agenda. The National Assembly will continue its meeting at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u2	I suggest we continue the session. It would be appropriate for the Swiss to adjust their hours after the beginning of the work of the National Assembly. So I'm asking everyone to come to the big hall. Please take your seats. I also ask the ministers to come to the hall as soon as possible. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. That won't be enough. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby again to join us. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please report presence and presence by pressing the "quorum" key. There are 51 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be concluded and may begin consideration of point 1 of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to questions and wakes of affairs and affairs. He apologized to Dr. Grizold, Minister of Defense. During the business period one day before the meeting, we received written notifications of questions and initiatives sent. As you know, the order of establishment shall be laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure. The first three questions or initiatives are put by members of the opposition and then by Members of the various parliamentary groups in order to move forward. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question referred must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clearly visible. The oral question or initiative should not last more than three minutes. However, I would like to ask the government representatives that, as a rule, their response would not exceed 10 minutes. The first three parliamentary questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšek, whom I welcome among us. He'll be the first to ask him a question, colleague Peter Levich. Comrade Peter Levich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. It is now raining on our bench that the amendments of Members, Members' groups and working bodies to the draft budget for the years 2002 and 2003 are being tabled. That's what it looks like, like a pile, a little bit more. Among them are amendments proposing increased funding for education, social, student homes and many things seem important. Among the priorities of the budget itself, the Finance Minister listed support on knowledge-based society, scholarship programmes, intensive building of student homes, social security and solidarity. On the other hand, a plane is being bought that is supposed to serve the needs of the state authorities, especially the government, which is supposed to cost billions of dollars, and it is constantly sounded "purchase funds are provided". Clearly, it would be ideal to buy a plane and take care of matters that are obviously of interest to the wider circle and actually help develop Slovenia. It is also true that some consider the purchase of a government aircraft to be a moral, legal and public scandal. So as Prime Minister, I ask you: What is your opinion, what should be the priority? In short, what's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. Your Honor! The question is, in fact, what is expected is a classic question. This issue would probably have been raised at any time, of course, the government would have decided to propose the purchase of a new aircraft. That is clear to me, and not only with us, but elsewhere. In fact, we have been delaying such purchases for several years precisely for these reasons, because in all these years, practically in the last ten years, we have never felt justified enough or perhaps, even though it was justified, but compared to various other needs, we have never been able to make this move and we have really delayed it for 10 years. All of this, and until that point, has actually become a very serious issue. Actually, it's on the table in this form that we have to cut it once, decide whether we're going in this direction or maybe looking for some completely different solutions. The government has drawn up its proposal in this direction in such a way that, in our view, it does not compromise other priorities, but at least education, for example, which we have maintained high among our priorities in all these years, because we have allocated a lot of resources for this purpose, and also in the 2002 and 2003 budgets. So it's not from the means of education, it's from the means of defence, the means of purpose, which we've heard quite a few comments about, but we've decided on such a solution because it's in use in many countries. In most countries, you might say, they have such solutions and it is a method of financing provided for in that dedicated law. It is a one-off decision, for 20 years and we have estimated that Slovenia is an independent country and that despite all the reasons "for" consider the reasons "against" the purchase of an aircraft, which we estimate as one of the elements in some way also Slovenian statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be raised by colleague Majda Zupan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our party, we are committed to strengthening local self - government and thus to establishing new congregations. We believe that it is right for citizens to organise themselves as they know that for them and their place are the best, as we call it, from the bottom up. We are convinced that the implementation of such local self-government is the best contribution to the construction of Slovenia according to the principles of democracy and decentralisation. We have been closely monitoring all developments in this regard, in particular the financing of local tasks recently. We believe that the current average increase in the appropriate consumption of municipalities is significantly too low, as neither follows inflation. In addition, various measures at national level increase the financial obligations of municipalities and, on the other hand, do not follow financial resources. This is most evident in the increase in costs for kindergartens, libraries, the introduction of nine-year-olds, school transport and could even be listed. Mr President, I ask you: Does this mean a tendency to reduce the interests of the establishment of new congregations? Are preparations for a new law on the financing of municipalities also being made? Does the government have the impression that it is against the establishment of new congregations or that it somehow wants to bypass the decision of the State Assembly of 18.4. this year, which clearly gave rise to an invitation to all interested in initiating a procedure for the establishment of municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Comrade Zupan. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u9	I agree with your guidelines or the guidelines that you have raised in your question, namely strengthening local self-government, decentralisation of governance in Slovenia. The government has been working very hard on this issue recently. It is true that, in particular, with the issue of regions as the next step to be taken in Slovenia in the coming period, we are preparing a proposal for appropriate legislation in this area. On the other hand, of course, we have municipalities in Slovenia, and we have already established a system of financing these municipalities. It is understandable that there are always many questions about whether the system is real or not, who gets too much and who gets too little. Of course, we are trying this issue in the best way, of course, together with you in the National Assembly, by the way. The Ministry of Finance is, as I know, preparing a new law, including in cooperation with representatives of various parties, sent groups. It was, I think, a few of these meetings. However, as I am informed, there are aspirations or proposals, because sometimes they are quite different and I expect the Ministry to prepare this proposal for new funding for municipalities in a short time with the Ministry of the Interior. The Minister of Finance may be able to tell you more about this. As for the establishment of new congregations. Of course, through its activity, it is not directly affecting and what we are trying or directing our efforts in recent times is, again, the issue of the regions, especially because we need to address it also "vis-a-vis" of the European Union and therefore we are looking for solutions and we have already had some final preparatory meetings in this direction to present such a concept of regions, which would also allow for the greatest possible withdrawal of funds in the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other hand, of course, to find the right answers to what the concept of regionalisation is appropriate for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Zupan, do you have a supplementary question? Yes, you do. You don't? Thank you very much. Thirdly, he will ask the Prime Minister a question from his colleague Jelinčič. You have the floor, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all. Mr. Prime Minister: I ask you when you spoke and said at least 40 credits to the Slovenian people at the time of the adoption of the little-border cooperation agreement between Croatia and Slovenia, I would ask you to list only three things that have really improved in this area. At the same time, I'd like to ask you: Where could Slovenian society look at these changed maps that have now changed the border and run substantially beyond what has been so far? One more thing. I would ask you, given that Owl is a self-serving service within the Slovenian government and you are thus its chairman: By what law, with what legal basis can agents of the Owl walk through Slovenian companies trading with Yugoslavia and ask them this and that, in short, anything possible? As I know, this is illegal, so I would like answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Two questions, Mr. Prime Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u13	If I understand correctly, then there are three questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u15	It's supposed to be just one thing, but it's okay. The first question is a small-border agreement with Croatia. The small-border agreement is in the phase of enforcement, implementation. After it was ratified by the National Assembly, the notes were exchanged with Croatia and then, I think, there were some activities, meetings between the Slovenian and Croatian ministries, where they are negotiating or where the activity is to begin to apply this agreement in practice. He has often discussed the effects of this agreement. So I don't think there's any point in repeating the whole story of the small-border agreement with Croatia. However, its implementation is under way, so we expect the establishment of the new situation envisaged in this agreement on the ground in a short time. The second question, you probably thought, when it comes to what the new border is, to the border agreement with Croatia, i.e. the border agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. As you know, we have been preparing this agreement for a long time, negotiating with Croatia for practically 10 years. As you know, in July this year we were able to reach an agreement at the negotiating level, to a draft agreement that was then approved by both governments, and to an agreement that was then initialled and also endorsed by our Foreign Policy Committee. On the Croatian side, there have been major difficulties in adopting this agreement, significant internal polarisation, major criticisms of the agreement and, above all, of the Croatian Prime Minister who worked on this agreement or who has just confirmed the agreement. So we are still waiting for the relevant decisions of the Croatian side and will then see whether the agreement will be signed and further ratified. On the Slovenian side, I estimate that, at least as far as the government is concerned, we have finished our work. The entire negotiating process is over, even to a large extent to the government, the decision-making process remains, as I have said, a parliamentary endorsement of this agreement, and at this moment, of course, we must wait for what the Croatian Parliament will do or whether the Croatian Prime Minister will sign this agreement. This is the current situation of this agreement and I have used the issue to summarize the situation with regard to the border agreement with Croatia. Such an agreement has, of course, proved to be very demanding, that it is not in fact an ideal agreement, that the agreement has also been critically dealt with on our Slovenian side, but on the Croatian side it is so very critical that there has been some, apparently, total blockage in decision making. Therefore, the question is whether policy has already reached that level of capacity, who would say perhaps maturity, even with them to adopt such an agreement. Well, we've done our job, as I said. Question three, Owl. In fact, you need to devote this question more to yourself because you are a member of the Owl Supervisory Commission, the Commission for the Control of the Legality of the Owl's Operation. Such supervision is therefore carried out by the relevant parliamentary commission. After all, according to the information I have as Prime Minister, Owl is working in full compliance with the laws, regulations and I have no other information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u16	Good. Comrade Jelinčič, would you like a further question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, with regard to a small-border agreement. The fact is, the Slovenians didn't get anything at the border. Still no roads, still no phones, still no water, still no electricity, after all, the hunting family, whose member is also one of your closest associates, Mr Bavčar, are always fighting and nothing is arranged. That's why I want to know: When will things change according to the promises that have been made, given, and still made? As far as maps are concerned, I'd like to know: Where are these maps where the Slovenians can see them? I have a feeling the government is hiding them. And why is he hiding them? Is it because of the Slovenian side or because of the Croatian side? As for Owl, yes, I am a member of the Owl Control Commission and because I want to supervise, I also ask. But you are the direct chairman of the Owl under the Owl Act, which is set out in Article 1. And perhaps to the end, I would like to thank Mr President of the National Assembly, who, at the request of the ruling party, is probably very perfidious and very clever in preventing Slovenian national television from passing on the opposition's issues to the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u18	Mr. President, do you want me to answer first, or do you? You will. Please. Here you are, Mr. President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u19	Well, I don't think there's anything new about these additional issues. The agreement has only recently been recently ratified, and of course, it has not been possible to ask whether any roads have been built since then or anything like that. Of course, there will be the expected and anticipated effects of this Agreement, a more lively border activity, including the establishment of probably more lively communications. There's a lot of this going on right now. We expect it to be significantly facilitated by this agreement. However, this will show this period, which is practically now beginning, this period ahead of us. As far as it is concerned, not a small-scale but border agreement with Croatia. The government presented him to the public when we accepted him in government. I think our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has prepared a number of public presentations, including in local communities. However, I repeat, the agreement is not ratified and, of course, is not valid and, as such, we cannot print and publish it now. There are those agreed maps agreed in our negotiating groups. And these are available, if you want to see them again, of course again, in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as Owl is concerned, of course I've said my thing. There is no information or indication of any illegality. Sometimes we forget, so it seems to me that Sova is our institution, a Slovenian institution that protects Slovenian national interests. Sometimes we treat it or treat it as if it were an enemy institution. It protects our Slovenian interests in this world, which is still quite difficult, quite dangerous and, in particular, whether or not a small gold country must also protect its interests. But as far as television is concerned, I can't answer that question. Maybe I should complain because he's not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u20	Since we now have two parties to appeal, an explanation should be given. Colleague Jelinčič and others do not know that the leadership of the National Assembly and that the leaders of the parliamentary groups have repeatedly dealt with the question of how to combine two interests, which are to some extent also in conflict. The interest of the National Assembly that, independently of all other circumstances, it normally carries out its work. When it adopts the agenda, it goes to the first item, which is on the questions and initiatives of Members. We agreed to take 15 minutes of time for government representatives to come and prepare for this agenda item. We have repeatedly asked television to monitor, as far as possible, the work of the National Assembly from the beginning. As far as I can explain their reasons right now, this is not possible because of the programming scheme. However, I think that we are all, colleagues and colleagues interested because we are here to decide and sit on behalf of the people, that as many people as possible follow our work. How much and how much power, it's not up to us but, of course, the public service. So that even today, when possible, television questions and initiatives will be tolerated. Let me just say this: just before this meeting with the Vice-President and the Vice-President, we discussed how to deal with this issue in advance. I think that this is a matter of agreement between all the parliamentary groups, and I believe that this is the interest of everyone, that we will come to some solution. Otherwise, I'm doing what was agreed upon and what was possible. The next question will be asked by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Prime Minister, ministers, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The first question I would ask the Minister of Finance: The competent offices and institutions publish various economic and financial indicators of the state of public finances, economic trends in Slovenia. The projected growth of gross social product is lower than planned, from 4.5% to 2.9%, in the second quarter of the first half as much as 2.7%. The collection of public levies is significantly lower than last year, as in the first eight months we realised only around 70% of last year's taxes, in particular VAT. Thus, it gives a drop of about 30 billion Slovenian tolars in eight months. Domestic consumption has fallen substantially, or domestic production growth is lower than planned. Even in the middle of the year, the deficit is significantly higher, i.e. more than twice as much as it was planned for the whole year. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: Do you believe that all these losses or all these deviations from the forecast for the rest of the year can be replaced? Do you believe that the 2001 implementation estimates, as we have also received in the 2002 and 2003 draft budget, are these data realistic and does it assess that these data are also a real basis for planning for the coming years? That's the first question. However, another issue would be raised by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, in relation to this year's bill on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. Article 12 states that the Slovenian compensation company is obliged to calculate the amount of the compensation to the beneficiaries by virtue of an official duty and to give them a decision on that. The compensation shall be paid in two instalments, the first part shall be cash paid in two instalments and the first instalment shall not be paid before 15.1. This deadline is approaching and this compensation is only available on the basis of a legal decision on the amount of compensation which must, of course, be served on the beneficiary. That's why I'm asking because this deadline is close and the beneficiaries are some 10,000: Whether in any case a decision on the amount of compensation has already been issued, when these decisions will be handed over to beneficiaries, at what stage they are in the preparation of these decisions. That's what it says: Will these decisions also be issued early enough to allow beneficiaries to reach this first cash portion of the compensation within the time limit provided for, that is, 15.1.2002? What is the amount foreseen for the first cash meal, because the law says that up to 150 thousand dollars, which is also a thousand dollars? I wonder, is this going to be this height, this is going to be 150 grand, or is it going to be lower? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Minister Rob will answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u23	Commissioner, I thank you for the question raised regarding the implementation of the 2001 budget. This was also discussed in the committee responsible for the implementation of the budget. In this regard, it was, of course, said that this year's economic growth is also relatively unfavourable from the point of view of resources, but of course the resources moved differently, after months. While the inflows were relatively favourable in August, both on the basis of the value added tax and on the invoiced tax and the relatively stable level of value added tax refunds, there was in fact a certain decrease in imports in Slovenia in September. From this title is also a relatively more favourable current balance of payments than you have probably heard these days, and of course also a certain amount of revenue in September, which, of course, could not be the subject of an assessment of the implementation that we gave in the budget, since data for the month of September was not received until the end of September. However, the data for October show a relatively more favourable picture. The fact is that the public financial picture has been improved. But the economy isn't. The public financial picture has been improved mainly because there has been a significant decline in export dynamics. According to the customs administration, export dynamics were in September and, of course, refunds are collected or accounted for and the value added import tax at 109 nominal index levels, which, of course, means very low export dynamics. A comparison was made by September to September. This means, of course, that in October we are calculating significantly smaller refunds than we originally calculated, with import dynamics slightly higher and this index is 114. This means that there is a real increase in imports, a deterioration in the balance of payments. Undoubtedly, this will contribute to fuelling consumption. However, not necessarily for economic growth. However, in terms of net inflows, the picture is undoubtedly better in October. Otherwise, your comparison, which compares the first eight months and the realization of 70% compared to last year's, would say slightly unusual, given that we know that in this year's year the total inflow of value added tax and excise duty in January was added to the inflows of 2000. And this is the deformation that we are eliminating with the draft budget for 2002 and 2003. Clearly, then, our assessment is not that we will implement the budget with ease. There's no doubt about it, I emphasize. However, we believe that a slightly higher inflow in October and a smaller inflow in September are still within those limits within which we can manage revenue and expenditure for this year, within the remit given to us by the Public Finance Act. We are, of course, monitoring practically daily inflows, and if there are major deviations due to the deterioration of the economic situation, we will notify the national assembly, the competent commission and, of course, take appropriate action. First of all, within the framework of the powers we have under the Public Finance Act within the Government and in the management of the budget. And, of course, if there were major problems, of course, even if there were procedures in the National Assembly, even in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Clearly, then, the economic situation is somewhat worse this year. I can say that these days, final coordination is under way with the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis on the rate of economic growth in 2001 and 2002 and 2003. It is likely that a special expert council will also meet next week with the Prime Minister, who will study economic movements, both for this year and for the following year. On this basis, we will also, of course, accept the final estimates of economic growth for this year and the following years, and on this basis also, of course, also appropriate if the assessment that this is necessary is to correct the budget when the supplementary draft budget is tabled. The discussion in the National Assembly took place in the home committees and the competent commissions. We have data on the positions of Members, of course we have amendments that have been tabled. On the basis of the assessment and evaluation of all the amendments to be tabled, on the basis of an assessment of the real economic situation and growth for this year and next year, we will prepare an updated draft budget as well as possible measures and, of course, a contingency scenario, which was also discussed in the presentation of the budget. The fact is that even after September events in the United States, economic conditions are relatively complicated to see the situation change. However, as I have said, these conditions are still within such a framework that they are manageable, fortunately these influences on Slovenia so far, I stress, are relatively limited so far and we can manage them, and therefore it is our additional task to do everything possible to support the economy's efforts in the coming year. And, of course, I appreciate and think that we have all the grounds for this, that we also have real opportunities in the next year to achieve significantly higher economic growth in Slovenia than it was and will be realized in the European Union. Just like it used to be in the last six years. The next question was about the Fund for the Remuneration of War. A representative of the Ministry of the Economy may answer that question. The fact is that we will meet our obligations, by law we are obliged to issue bonds of 30 billion Slovenian tolars, only in the amount of the principal - you know that the interest rate of TOM+1 - and of course to provide cash payments of 16 billion. We will do this in this context in the budget package, in accordance with Article 13a of the Public Finance Act. It is likely that tomorrow the government will also table appropriate amendments to the law on supplementing the law on the Fund to compensate the victims of war violence, whose primary objective is only to provide additional funds for the prisoners, so that we will normally pay all the obligations and commitments we have under the law to the citizens who are, of course, entitled to those amounts. But what about the decisions, of course I don't know, maybe he'll be a representative of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u24	You wish, Mr Secretary of State, to supplement Minister Rope. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u25	Yes, thank you very much. So we will provide you with this information on the decisions issued in writing and in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u26	Mag. Vizjak, you want a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Of course, I have a supplementary question. For when I gave a poor profit in collecting value added tax, I thought of the period from 1.2 to 30.9, January was excluded. There is a deficit of 30 billion Slovenian tax dollars. You mentioned that there are slightly more positive movements in October. The month of October is not over, and again we have some predictions that we will only be able to witness in the future. I would like to point out that I have not received an answer to the essential question: Whether the 2001 realisation data, which is the basis of the budget document, are even real data, whether these data are expected or credible to be based on all other comparisons, forecasts for the future On the basis of what I've said, I highly doubt that. Also, I would say, the answer of the Minister, who somehow bypassed this essential question, points to, I would say, a serious matter and the question whether he has a point to debate on such a budget if it is based on questionable data, on estimates. That's why I'm saying there's no answer. On the other hand, I would expect a clear and simple answer from the Minister: When can beneficiaries expect the first instalment of cash indemnity under this compensation fund law? When? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u29	Let me re-emphasize. It is not just about the implementation of the budget, it is about the information that is public, which is known and with which, of course, everyone can serve, of course, the Commission has. One is data, specific and absolute numbers, and the other is, of course, relative comparisons of each month, taking into account, of course, the seasonal component in individual cases. We know when additional consumption occurs or where additional exports occur and where imports are relatively higher. As I said, the data are practically known by the end of October and the assessment can be largely or almost 100% reliable. This is because the data at the customs office concerning imports are fully clear and it is known how much imports were and how much exports were known on the basis of customs declarations. So at this point, we have information on the amount of the value added tax from imports and the amount of the export refund. Of course, the second topic is the domestic consumption tax. Of course, we do not claim that there will be no problems. Of course, we can also keep the competent committee informed of the information that we have, that is available and that is fixed. Everything else is, of course, an estimate by the end of the year and otherwise simply cannot be done. I told you in which months there have been relatively more favourable results and in which months to the worse. August was more favourable, I said before, and also October is more favourable, September is extremely unfavourable, and we also know what are the cumulative numbers, whenever we can serve them on the committee responsible for budgetary control and let you know about it. Of course, I am pleased that you are concerned about the implementation of the budget and I can assure you that I am even more concerned. Of course, we are monitoring resources for this practically daily and, of course, we will also take appropriate action if necessary. Of course, I can assure you that. If, of course, the situation is so critical, I just wish it hadn't been, we will also come to the National Assembly and, of course, the National Assembly will take note of it. However, when we come to the National Assembly with a supplementary draft budget, we will also take note of the latest data on the implementation of the budget, and of course also of the assessments and these relate to two parts: one co-sources, different resources, the other is expenditure, of course. Of course, there are possible fluctuations on both sides, on the assets and on the liabilities, of course, so-called a-balances. As regards the decisions issued, of course, I am not directly responsible for issuing these decisions, of course, on behalf of the Government, I can only say that we will verify what is happening by issuing these decisions - the compensation fund is responsible for them - and of course I can only ensure that we do everything we can to ensure that they are issued within the legal time limits. I think that's the only possible answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Bojan Kontic will ask the government a question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the executive branch! I ask the first question to the Ministry of Information Society. A year before the introduction of frequencies, the Association of Local Televisions of Slovenia, a non-profit organisation, joined the implementation of microwave links between members in order to facilitate the exchange of programmes. The maintenance of alliances for members is already a demanding financial asset. The frequency payment to be settled by 31.10.2001 means the flood. The local televisions that are members of this association will settle their obligations. The problem I have been alerted to is, therefore, the payment of the frequency of local television associations. Let me repeat that this is a non-profit organization. I ask the Ministry of Information Society: What it intends to do, as it may happen that the Agency withdraws or withdraws a licence in the event of a failure to pay the prescribed duties. The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Health. A while ago, I raised the question of when the National Programme in Velenje will be established as a unit of the Health Care Institute. The answer was that, in addition to organisational problems, the biggest one was that there were no funds foreseen. I'm asking you: Have you provided the necessary resources in the budget for the following year? And also a question that points to the relationship of institutions to one of the largest cities in the country. The mayor of Velenje Town Hall was warned that the Health Insurance Office provides for the transfer of part of the medical commissions of the 1st degree operating in Velenje from Velenje to Ravne in Koroškem. The Senate deals with 9 to 10 thousand insurance cases per year from our premises. If this means rationalisation, you went to the wrong end in health care. In a parable, I would say that you took the costs for the tail and not for the head. Whatever move we're up against, we're up against. We are already asking the insurers whether the decision-making of the second-degree body, i.e. the Ravne Regional Unit in Koroška, is entirely fair if I am allowed to use that word. It would be very interesting to get an analysis of all the cases that this regional unit has dealt with, so I ask you to provide me with this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. My friend Kontic has asked me a number of questions. First to the Minister, Dr. Gantar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I'll answer that question. Of course, the problem of these links is well - known and we have met several times with representatives of the local television association. In fact, this is first of all a problem that was created on the basis of the old frequency rule, which has just set certain tariffs, which, of course, the association considers to be too high. I have to make it very clear here that it's hard to do something serious back here. In view of the decisions that have been taken, decisions have been issued and it is known in what way such decisions may be amended. It is important, however, that in the preparation of the new frequency rule, which will be discussed at any time, we foresee solutions which, at least for this area of connections, will provide for significantly more acceptable and favourable frequencies, as this is a different case than broadcast television signals. However, it is a bundle, if I understand it correctly, which will be accounted for according to their size, the pollution of this frequency space, which of course implies that the frequencies will be significantly lower. However, the question of backward can, of course, only be resolved in the relevant institutions, since decisions have been made on the basis of the old rules, clearly, already issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Dr. Gantar. Mag. The peak will probably answer another question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Kontic and the other Members! Allow me to apologize again to the minister who is on a business trip in China. Your question regarding the health care institution [[We've talked before.]] So far, it covers the activity of this area or this area covers the health care institution Celje and we are exploring the possibilities of essentially institutionalising this to the level of your area for which you are asking. In fact, the fact is that the provision of funds and the establishment of a health care institution is a little more difficult. This is a process, and we are trying to put it into practice in some way and we are also trying to make or find arguments that would also answer this question more broadly. However, as regards the second part of the question concerning the second-degree body of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, I must say that in some way I do not understand why there would be no argument to move this body to another area if there is insufficient services or if this body does not have enough work in this area. In any case, we will check, we will pass this question to the health insurance institution and we will give you a written answer to why this happened. However, I would not know in what way, with what argument, they transferred the activity of this body to Ravna in Koroška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My colleague Kontic wants to ask the government a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Of course, I thank you for the answers. But I'm not happy with the answers. In the first case, we find that there is nothing to be done. This means, of course, that it may not even be necessary to discuss the frequency of local television associations in the coming year. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, you know, it's already out of line. For two years you have been studying what can be done in this area. This is a very unserious doing, and even more an unserious answer. However, as regards the transfer of competences of the first-degree medical commissions, they have not yet been transferred, and I warn you that it will be very wrong if you carry them. I also talked about how many patients are being treated by the medical commission at first stage in Velenje. So this is from 9 to 10,000 cases. Now it would be very appropriate to compare what this figure means with the whole first stage treatment. In this case, I think it would be more about moving somewhere else than from Velenje out, in fact in Velenje a complete district health insurance unit. Of course, I'm not happy with the answers. Mr President of the National Assembly, I also protest that we accept in this National Assembly the answers that I have received at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u38	Minister Gantar, you would like to explain further, given the opposition of Ambassador Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u39	I would like to explain in particular that I do not think pessimism is in place, that we are looking for answers that will allow this link between local televisions to work and that this will not affect them too much financially. However, it is not possible to amend the decisions which have been made in return. You know this is an illegal act. It is particularly important that the new frequency shift really defines the conditions and conditions of operation of individual stations and, in particular, their interlinkages. And that'll be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u40	Mag. Top of the line, would you like to complete it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u41	Yes, thank you. I would like to explain further, given the implementation of Mr Kontic. I cannot give you a more precise answer regarding the implementation of the activities of the Health Care Institute, because I have not been aware of this question. If you want, we can also give you a more comprehensive reply in writing. As for the second part of the answer, you are again simply stating the number of decisions at the first stage, but not at the second stage. We don't know the number of second-degree complaints. It is therefore necessary to simply check this number and to determine why, once again, the health insurance institution, which is a sovereign institution with regard to the organisation of its activities, is acting as it is decided. Once again, I promise you that we will move this issue forward and also answer this question in writing, or the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute will answer this question itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much, mag. It's a peak. I give my word to my colleague Maria Pozsonec. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and welcome. I would have one question for the Minister of Economy. How much money has been allocated from European money to remedy the situation in the border area of Pomurje? Where and for what was it used? Thank you. But I do have another parliamentary initiative. I would like to point out to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Space that bilingual primary school in Prosenjakovci does not have an orderly supply of drinking water. No water has been flowing from the pipe since April. Therefore, in the interest of child health, I ask that you and the local community provide healthy drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. First, she asked a question at the address of the Ministry of the Economy. Secretary of State Strmšnik, you have the floor. Mrs. Maria, can you shut yourself out of the microphone to get the word government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Slovenia receives the so-called pre-accession structural assistance from three Structural Funds: Phare, Sapard and Ispa. Help Sapard we have not yet started to use, help Ispa is intended for larger projects of environmental and transport protection. The question, however, is probably related to the Phare programme and because it is a national mixed area at the border, it is likely that the cross-border cooperation programme with the Republic of Hungary is narrower. We have signed a joint programming document Phare CBC for Hungary by 2006. In the context of these guidelines, the programmes shall then be adopted and implemented annually. The first programme started in 1995 and was launched in 1995 with a few years’ delay. In Pomura, the funds from this programme also came from Phare 1997, 2000 and 2001. Together, it was from these addresses in Pomurje - because the whole of Pomurje is the subject of cross-border cooperation in this programme, so 7 million euro has been targeted during this period, namely, in the early years, the funds have mainly gone to Goričko Nature Park. This was the first and second phase of the reconstruction of the castle Goričko. The project of the three-state park Goričko, totalling EUR 2.9 million from these initial funds, was financed when this aid started to take place. The next major item is a fund for small projects. The four tenders were from this Fund every year, totalling EUR 1.4 million for all four tenders. Every year, this call is signed up for about 30 smaller projects, low-value projects that have a cross-border impact and are intended, I would say, to promote this cooperation at the border. I do not have a specific list of these projects that have been registered with the Small Projects Fund here, or which have been successful on these calls, and we will forward this to you in writing. The next items we find in recent years are the training centre Rakičan, 0.7 million euros, the 3D strategy 0.4 million euros. We have not yet started to use the funds for 2001. We have already invited a minority representative to the Management Board, which manages the small project fund, in 2000, so that the minority participates. However, we will also include a minority representative in this programme committee in order to implement the Joint Economic Area project to be implemented in 2001. If in recent years the funds have been focused primarily on these small projects and on a few larger things, such as the Goričko Castle, then in the future we expect wider coverage of the border band and more possibilities for including a minority with larger projects in this cross-border cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My colleague Pozsonec also gave an initiative. Does the minister want to respond, or does he want to respond? [[No, no, ……]] Later. Okay, thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Pozsonec? [[No, no, ……]] The next one has the word of his colleague Maximilian Lavrinz. Comrade Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My question or initiative, however it will be taken, and criticism at the same time, is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. I'd start it like they say: dogs bark, caravans move on. I mean the work of the Slovenian police. And this is not yesterday's event, which will certainly not be proud of the police who did it there, but of the police's work on traffic control. 47 Members signed a decision in the first reading of the National Road Safety Programme, where we placed both the Minister and the Director-General of the Slovenian Police on the floor, not just those cases where they are being cashed and so beat, so to speak, normo, but rather put themselves where accidents are taking place. This, of course, continues to happen. For example, in Ljubljana, for example, you have three police officers who are just cashing in. What is the meaning of this punishment here, of course, while we are aware that very few punishments have been received, we are being re-set by Members who have signed this and, in fact, in the entire national assembly that has supported it. The same is true of police officers in implementing the law on residence registration. I'll tell you what this is about. On the Great Mountain there are two high-rise huts or stands that are so determined according to the classification of the Mountain Union of Slovenia, for which they are empowered by the law on the registration of residence, including many huts that are even farther away, so to speak, from civilization, such as these two stands. In the second, pardon, paragraph 5, it is stated that in such a case the competent authority would be able to set a longer period for a long distance from the settlement where the police station is located and not to do so in this case. That is why, in this case, I am taking the initiative of the Minister to ensure that this is done. You know what's going on now, I'll tell you. These huts are owned or owned by factories that built this for cultivation, so to speak, or for this union tourism. Look. When the last one who is in charge of this factory departs, for example, on a Saturday night, [[...]] [[Pisk.]] I will be very brief - with the gondola back to the city, it takes more than 12 hours before it is possible to restore this physical contact to bring this certificate. [[...]] Well, cops do that all the time. And the case where they wrote "Claudius" instead of Claudius, all the other data was correct, however, they proposed this man to the judge for crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz. Minister Bohinc, you have the floor. And I'm asking everyone else not to knock in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u49	I thank you for the question and this initiative. As regards the issues, discussions on the Internal Policy Committee have already been opened. In fact, issues related to traffic control. The police have guidance to monitor traffic in the manner presented by a fellow Member. This is said at dangerous points, at black points, in short, where there are reasons visible from traffic safety analyses. It is true, however, that we have repeatedly been warned that these guidelines are not fully implemented, although there are other safety reasons for stopping vehicles in addition to traffic. Otherwise, there is guidance that the police in the field are fully aware that stopping vehicles is permissible only in cases where infringements are found directly. We are planning some consultations this fall related to the national transport safety programme, in some Slovenian regions, including the police and mayors, where we intend to give some attention to the issue of dangerous points or to address the causes of accidents at local levels, as well as to policies or the implementation of police guidelines on control. That's all I can say. As for initiatives, we will examine it and join it in the way that the Member has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Comrade Lavrinc, would you like a further question to the Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u51	I'm afraid I didn't get an answer. Maybe I wasn't being precise. I'm referring to a standard that police officers want to achieve. For so to say, nonsense happens, for example, that a police officer proposes someone to a judge for offences because he wrote instead of Claudius, Claudius, with all the information he writes in this application to a temporary residence. So this seems to me to indicate that the police officer is going, not because, even on the surface of it all, all three of them know each other, the police, the one whose name was used, the instigator who was responsible. I'm talking about how it seems to me that this is a situation in which police officers do this kind of stupid thing, if you want, just to reach the norm. That's what I'm implying. This is particularly significant in the area we have addressed here, this road safety. Therefore, I do not think that I have received the full answer, nor do I expect it if I am honest, because, after all promises, both the Minister and the Director-General of the Police, the situation in this area is not improving. I'm talking about standard again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u52	Minister, you will surprise the Member with a complete answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u53	I will hardly surprise the Member with a complete answer. I couldn't agree that the reason for doing this to the police is to try to reach the norm. And it's hard to comment on a case I don't know. I think it is also difficult to generalise from one case, but in any case it would be appropriate to examine an individual case and determine whether the system solution is wrong. I therefore invite the Member to provide me with information on a particular case and then on this basis I will be able to assess the appropriateness of systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Government colleague Janez Podobnik. Comrade Companion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. The first question would be addressed to the government or to the Foreign Affairs Department, I see two secretaries of state, especially the State Secretary of Mag. The truck. In the framework of the diplomatic mechanisms, did she react to information that the Italian official authorities, in this case the statistical state office, did not agree or allow bilingual descriptive genders in the forthcoming elections, i.e. at a nearby human count in bilingual areas in Italy? If so, then it must be mentioned that 10 years ago, when the last census was held, there was no global law to protect the Slovenians, the forms for human counting were still bilingual. If this is true, then it is a classic eccentric violation of the principle of bilinguality in the national mixed area. In the Slovenian press today we have seen quite a few reactions to this decision, including the reaction of our minority in Italy, which is very uniform here. And also the reaction of some Italian political parties and forces who are also surprised. The second issue is the implementation of the law on coherent regional development. At the time of the presentation of the state budget, the Minister of Mags made a strong statement. Robbery, which will account for 3% of GDP, will be a coherent regional development. I read very carefully this weekend the transcript of the debate on the Committee on the Economy, where the Mag is. He also spoke about the implementation of the law on coherent regional development. He said that this was the first time that individual resources were forced or legally obliged to report on how much they invested in the regional development programme, at the level of each sub-programme. These programs are now identified. These programmes are subject to further processing at the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. If that is true, we would like to know whether Members and Members could already see these programmes. This is very important for the debate in the National Assembly on this issue. The third topic, however, touches on the issue of financing the Maritime Institute for Natural and Technical Sciences. The question would be addressed to the Secretary-General, Dr. Chok. I have information that there have been difficulties in financing this young institute. It's only been working for two years. It's working. We are informed, however, that due to the non-financing of some projects, in particular the project Gravity of the membrane of non-mutative spaces and the structural memory elements, has in some ways even raised the question of how this institution will work. It should also apply in the field of science to bloom as many flowers as possible. I'm sure you'll do whatever it takes to get the money you need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Three questions. First, the Secretary of State, Mrs. Tovornikova, will answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I thank the Member of Parliament, Dr. Podobnik, for the exact question at the right time. I'd like the answer to three points. It is true that the Slovenian minority, with great surprise, followed by resentment, adopted a description of the fields that were not as they should have been under the law, i.e. bilingual. The protest was immediate and came from the umbrella organizations of the Slovenes in Italy, and especially by the mayors in those municipalities where the Slovenes live. As you know, they've called for boycotting and refusing to meet such genders. Another time. At the first meeting of the Council of the Government for National Minorities, which was convened last week, we focused on this point and discussed it in particular in the world of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for National Minorities. This was followed by my instruction from the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia in Trieste to notify the State Statistical Office in writing, which carries out such a census, that such an approach is inadmissible and constitutes a grave violation of the protection law. Third time. This is another proof that caution was exercised in success, if I may say so, of Slovenian minorities in Trieste and also of Slovenian diplomacy in February this year, when the global protection law for Slovenians in Italy was passed for decades. We have accepted this with joy, but also with caution, which is now shown by the fact that implementation of almost every provision of this article is linked to many problems, sometimes faced by political situations in a neighbouring country. That is why I have made a public statement and have also accumulated some criticism of the right-wing option in the country of Furlania of Julian Krajina with a statement that I would like to repeat: "European standards and laws in countries where minorities live are adopted precisely so that minorities are not subject to every political option and that they do not face again and again some problems that need to be recorded both in international conventions and in laws." We are reminding Italy of this neighbouring country, and this time again the diplomatic note will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. State Secretary Strmšnik will answer another question. Please. Could you turn it off, Madam Secretary of State, Truck? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u59	Your Honor. The second part of your question, or second question, is at the right time. The first two regional development programmes have come into line with the assessment of these state resources in the state budget. Regional incentives can be divided into direct ones, into those who have the first objective of eliminating regional development differences - these are resources to improve infrastructure, different programmes along the border, and pharic resources are being complemented here - and this is the first objective of eliminating regional differences. Of course, many budgetary expenditure has a regional dimension. The government has committed ministries to take the regional dimension into account when using these funds as at least a secondary criterion, if not the primary criteria. In pursuing the policies of individual ministries, ministries are obliged as secondary criteria in the selection of projects, to incorporate these regional aspects. They're doing it more or less successfully. We are working to incorporate these criteria into as many public tenders as possible. We also point to this at every opportunity of the Ministry. Now the question is how many of these funds are in the budgets of individual ministries. We will get an answer when we sum up all the regional development programmes, their project components, and then we will find out how much the country's contribution to the implementation of these regional development programmes is. Since we do not yet have this, this field is, of course, quite wide open and depends on what we understand under regional expenditure, this figure still depends largely on it. I am convinced that the purpose of this doing and the intent of the law is to keep looking for this answer. In this sense, in fact, all budgetary expenditure or at least a large majority of these budgetary expenditure should have a regional dimension. I will be pleased when we can say that the vast majority of budget expenditure in Slovenia has at least the secondary criterion embedded in this objective of coherent regional development. The law on promoting coherent regional development said that all policies must also take care of this aspect. The problem is not solved by some fund, but by some fund that will share social justice with us, which will allocate funds from more developed regions to less developed regions, but by the efforts of all economic policies that must incorporate this objective of promoting coherent regional development into the system. At present, such coordination is taking place intensively between the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, between individual ministries and between individual regions, at least those that have started drawing up these regional development plans first. Of course, I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make sure that most of what Minister Rob announced will actually have built-in regional criteria. As soon as possible, the better.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Finally, the third question of Comrade Podobnik will be answered by the Minister, Dr. Čokov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Podobnik. As you know, I am the first of all to advocate the decentralisation of both higher education and scientific space. When the PINT was established, this is the Maritime Institute for Science and Technology, we expected that in addition to humanism, which is very well represented at the scientific - research centre in Cyprus, a base for natural science research will also be created. That is why the Ministry has also supported two projects of this institute at the level of, I think, 6,000 hours each, or equivalent to 53 million tolars. The economy also supported the operation of one institute. However, this institute has several major problems in its creation and operation. One problem arose in another project where the Institute itself found that it would not be possible for additional researchers to continue its research work and to replace the team. This team's in check now. Otherwise, I think that this institution needs to live structurally too, because the employee has a secretary and a young researcher. The headmistress herself is additionally employed at this institute. This means that we must, of course, check the functioning and operation of every public institution in our ministry. We are striving for scientific excellence and relevance of results, so we expect the PINT to have relevant results on both projects and, of course, both will be financed in this case. However, believe that we must also advocate scientific excellence. We're going to help this institute, we're going to meet with the director to make this institution really come to life, because after two years, we'd be expecting the first results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u62	Comrade Podobnik wants to ask a supplementary question. You have the floor, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to return the compliment. Two people told me I asked the right questions at the right time. Maybe if I make a little joke, it could be one of the credits when you've been sitting in Parliament for nine years, at least you know how to ask a question at the right time. But it's just a little joke. But apparently I have asked the right question, because two fellow Members have now helped me with the supplementary question, even the Vice-President of the National Assembly has brought me a ticket. On the first question, Mrs Tovornikov, you are talking about the note and so on so that it does not happen, among us is Mr Minister, in order to eventually need a boycott of the census. This is a solution that is bad for the Slovenian minority in Italy. I am sure that we will find together, especially with all minorities, representatives of the Slovenian state, so that it would not happen that the Slovenian minority should decide to boycott. It's the defeat of diplomacy. I did not fully understand Mr Strumčnik's response. It's complicated. You've been telling me that it's a vital achievement of the law, that we'll keep looking for an answer. I'd say that's a philosophical answer. The law solves problems, not looks for new answers. But I know it's complicated. Today in the parliamentary group, we have been talking about this issue for an hour. Please, Mr Secretary of State, if you are assessing that it would be possible for Members' groups and Members to receive these programmes that have come to your agency. As for Dr. Chokova's answer, I am sure that you will find all the formal frameworks to allow with special sensitivity this institute to stand. He's only got two programs, and if you take one from him, he's already doomed to failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Would any of the government representatives like to add something to the warning supplement? Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Tovornikova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I must say that I did not understand this Member of the like, so that I would request a supplement. Perhaps just a repetition, the Slovenian mayors reacted very strongly to increase pressure on the Italian authorities and get bilingual censuses on this. And here, of course, we support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by a colleague of the government, Dr. Miha Brac. Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Labour why veterans of the war for Slovenia cannot retire under Article 404 of the law on pension and disability insurance. This article specifically mentions this and says this: Under Article 404 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, regardless of the provisions of the Law on Home Affairs, the police, defence and protection, protection against natural and other accidents, defence, judicial service, war veterans, disabled persons and victims of war violence in 2001, the minimum age for obtaining the rights to a retirement pension is 49 years for men and 46 years for women, the minimum pension age is 29 years for men and 26 years for women. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance rejects this application. The veterans of the war on Slovenia tell me that they feel discriminated against, that they are second-rate citizens. I would like to ask the Minister for an answer in this regard. The second issue concerns the government and the asbestos law. In my office, they have spoken to the injured and say that the provisions of this law are not implemented if the Interdisciplinary Commission does not meet when it meets very rarely, but the Compensation Commission does not act as if there are no funds for these compensations and so on. If we have adopted a law, then we should provide sufficient resources in the budget to comply with the provisions of this law. I ask the government to answer what it has done or what it will do to obtain compensation for the harm or to do so in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleague Brace. First of all, it is likely that Minister Dimovski will answer the first question. Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u69	Dear Member. The new law on pension and disability insurance has exacerbated the conditions for any early retirement of all categories. This also applies to the category of war veterans, namely war veterans from any period. With regard to Article 404, I must say that a question has been asked before time. There was also an initiative for the mandatory interpretation of this 404th Article in Parliament, I think in the previous composition. Unfortunately, this 404th article, which actually referred to this question of yours, did not come to light. What is in the war veterans' law itself or any possibility of early retirement and reference to this provision of the law in Article 404, that is to say, the Veterans' and Defence Act, has in fact been exhausted by the transitional provisions of this law. The fact is that a novelty of the law on pension and disability insurance is being prepared. In this context and in this context, the amendment of Article 404 would make things more transparent, clearer to address any misunderstanding or difficulties in implementing this law. So in this part, I think that the novel will actually bring such a solution that there will be no more problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u70	Would you like a supplementary question, Mr Vice President? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u71	In particular, I would like to conclude that the Government itself is aware that this provision is unclear. However, I would consider this to be an inappropriate observation that this applies to veterans from any period. The veterans of World War II had long fulfilled all the conditions for retirement. It's actually about veterans from the war on Slovenia. Since this is about them, I think we should also take into account certain specific circumstances and work for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Does the government want to give any further clarification? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I invite my colleague Aloysy Sok to the floor. Comrade Sok, you have the floor. Excuse me, Comrade Sok, just a moment. Once again, I ask the government whether it wants to answer another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u73	Asbestos law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u74	Yeah. Today, by the way, there are more ministers between us than last time, which we consider to be a good promise to participate in this item of the agenda between the government and parliament. However, I expect that if there is no minister, at least the Secretary of State will take care of Minister Bizjak so politely that he will answer this question. [[...]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u75	Mr. President. I would only partially answer this question in the part concerning the commission under asbestos law. According to the information I have, although this is the Interdepartmental Commission, we are not directly adapted to our ministry, this commission is now in operation. With regard to the compensation commission, however, more is involved in the written reply. Unfortunately, there's nothing more I can say about this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u77	Since the government is unable or unable to answer this question right now, then I ask for a written answer. However, I would like to know very clearly whether it is true that the provisions of the law are not respected, and if not, when will these backlogs or deficits created by this, I would say, be fulfilled and people will get what they are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Comrade Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The distinguished representative of the Government and representatives of the Government, the distinguished fellow Member and Members. I'd like to ask you two questions if I have enough time. The first issue concerns the issue of wine-growing and related wine-growing in the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, Slovenia has recently and still invested a great deal in the development of wine-growing and fruit-growing, but in terms of bringing the European Union closer, in the knowledge that production quotas need to be increased. At the moment when negotiations with the European Union started, however, we found ourselves in a very difficult situation in the good part of Slovenia as regards winemaking. I wonder if the government currently has data on how many wine-growing areas we have in Slovenia and, of course, whether it has data on how many grapes can be produced by Slovenia at this time and, consequently, wine. I have a feeling that this data, at least updated, is not available and that many of the areas that have changed their destination from one agricultural area of wine growing in these years are not so knowledgeable and that we do not have this data. Another thing I'd like to point out. There is the impression that there is a large monopoly of wine cellars in the field of wine-growing and that in fact our vineyards are completely powerless against this monopoly. I would like to document this with the price of grapes this year, which is, in fact, unknown at this time, but according to the data that appears, actually very low, much lower, like, in neighbouring Austria. I got information from Feltbach, where I was told that in 1999 the farmer got on average for kilograms of processed grapes 2 mark 26. How long has he been with us? At this point, it is said to be about 1 brand or even less. I would like to draw attention to the unresolved issue of denationalisation of the wine cellar, which is a major problem, and to the import of large quantities of wine from our southern republics, particularly from Macedonia. I'd like the Secretary of State to tell me in writing if he doesn't. I would now like to ask the Secretary of State, who here represents the Ministry of Agriculture. Does the government have a strategy designed to prevent what can now happen from going the opposite way at the insurmountable prices of grapes, so that vine growers will leave areas that have been restored by state resources in recent years and planted on them a vine? And one more question, very briefly. I would like to ask the Ministry of Education why in Slovenia the school system of the intensive level reached at Klostergimzium in Hamburg is not equal to the higher level in our secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Three questions, the first two were addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Secretary of State Potočnik will probably respond to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u81	Yes, thank you very much. In Slovenia there are about 20,000 hectares of vineyards. As far as wine imports and exports are concerned, we have an agreement with Macedonia to import 20 million litres of wine annually, but we have never reached that amount in recent years. However, we exported between 7 million and 8 million litres of wine annually. Wine problems vary from year to year, depending on whether it is too much or too little. As far as the price of grapes and wine is concerned, of course the state on the free market cannot interfere with this, it is a matter of agreement between producers and processors or sellers of wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. To prepare Madam Minister for your third question, would you like to have an additional one first? Madam Minister, however, will know about the question you have asked her.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u83	The Secretary of State answered what I expected. I asked him whether the country or the government had a strategy in place to encourage and produce the areas that we had encouraged over the past years with state subsidies, to re-enact the vineyards, to plant vineyards on the plain. I now ask whether the country has a strategy to use some instrument, I don't know, export incentives or anything like that, to reach this market so that we will not now spend all the resources we have invested in this area. [[...]] If manufacturers produce at costs that do not make any profit, then you can trust me that they will not deal with it. I've given you an example of price in Austria and in Austria, while the prices of repromaterials, sprinklers and all that sort of thing are on the same level, of course. I'm asking you for a strategy, you can tell me you don't have one, and I'll be happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u84	Let's close this question. Mr Secretary of State, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u85	Certainly there cannot be an export incentive in the strategy. During a transitional period, of course, we continue in some other way with the encouragement and preparation of goods for the foreign market. As far as price relations are concerned, however, we know that with the reform of agricultural policy, the country is withdrawing from prices and its own, I would say, intervention replaces in this way that direct payments help to preserve the treated and cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The third question was addressed to the Minister of Education. Dr. Chokov, would you like to answer the Member of Parliament, Comrade Sok?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u87	I apologize to the MP for jumping out for a moment. If I understand correctly, you are asking about the recognition of secondary education or high school from abroad in our country or about the admission of foreign certificates to our universities. Is that right? As far as secondary and primary recognition is concerned, we have a special Nostration Commission with a number of problems, so we are preparing new legislation. In fact, it happens most often at graduation that graduation levels are not entirely equivalent abroad. Then the comparison is sometimes very difficult. As for admission to higher education, of course, it is also a matter of individual colleges. That is why individual colleges then draw up opinions either for admission or for recognition of certain parts of studies or certain diplomas. It's in their domain. However, this legislation is in the process of updating and getting closer to European documents. However, for an example, I would ask if you could write to us, and we would answer this very case from our office.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u88	I will exceptionally give you a brief supplementary question. Since we've been polite to the Minister, it's only right that we're here for you. A brief supplementary question, Comrade Sok. Can you turn it off, Madam Secretary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you have all the paperwork at the Ministry. But I don't know, maybe it's a lonely case, maybe there's more. [[...]] The student, who finished her high school program at Closter High School in Hamburg, was excellent all the time, in her 3rd, 4th year and high school, you didn't recognize her higher level or the commission didn't recognize her higher level. Under the appeal decision, you, Madam Secretary-General, are signed. You have answered this question, which I have presented to you in writing, that the certificate issued is that it is an intensive level, not a higher level. That's what I'm asking you. Why don't you compare the intensive level at this school to a higher level with us, because they don't have a different level than an intense level there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you. Madam Minister, do you wish to respond now?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u91	Yeah. This is exactly the case I was thinking, because somehow I had a hunch that this was the case. Of course, we leave this to the Commission, which is part of the senior committees, to judge. Now that they have rightly judged whether or not, of course we do not have the right instruments. I, of course, read that complaint. If you are not satisfied with the answer, we will try to explore further so that you can find out more precisely why this happened, that they did not recognise the intensive level as a high level.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. There is now no possibility for further clarifications and there are no further questions. Only Bevk will ask the government the following question. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I have a question for the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But I am asking on behalf of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and in the world. The implementation of the law on the visibility and visibility of RTV Slovenia programmes and of local non-commercial programmes in areas where the Slovenian national minority lives does not comply with its provisions. Among the reasons why this law is not implemented is the fact that it is not known which ministry is responsible for the implementation of the law. In accordance with the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government oversees the work of ministries and provides guidance for the implementation of policies and for the enforcement of laws, regulations and general acts, and ensures that ministries carry out their tasks in a coordinated manner. The government also decides on disputes concerning jurisdiction between individual ministries. I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for an answer which the Ministry is responsible for implementing the law on ensuring the visibility and visibility of RTV Slovenia programmes and local non-commercial programmes in areas where the Slovenian indigenous minority lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you so much for asking. Who of the government's representatives would like to respond? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is not defined in the law, it states in particular in ensuring that funds are provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but does not contain any Ministry. The reorganisation of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, or the new Ministry of Information Society, and the new media law have obviously led to some shortcomings, where there is no precise agreement on how and what. Today, my colleague, the Secretary of State, Mr Kalin, and I have already discussed this problem and I think that we will be able to resolve this problem in the coming days and, of course, in writing to you which ministry will take care of such a thing in the future. So far, this has been the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Now the government will have to reorganize these things and divide the powers. That way, then, in the coming days when the government will define itself, these things could somehow be resolved if Mr Kalin agrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u96	The Secretary of State, Mr Zorko, I think that colleague Bevk will ask a complementary question. Would you like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Information to complete the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture? Dr. Kalin. Don't you? Can I help you? Please, before a supplementary question is asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The problem is that the field of broadcasting is in fact covered by different laws and different sources, and, of course, the telecommunications and broadcasting agency, which is responsible for technical elements and is responsible for the most important where things get complicated - this is the coordination of radiation programmes in other countries. This is a problem we have all the time, which of course is also present in the direction of radiation programmes in Austria. This is a complex problem where more ministries need to be coordinated, not just the two mentioned here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u98	Comrade Bevk wants to ask a further question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, this will be a parliamentary initiative because I have already asked the question. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the 2002 and 2003 supplementary budget also provide for the means to implement this law when they agree on which Ministry is responsible for the implementation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Anyone from the government would like to comment on this initiative? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I give my word to my colleague Sasha Pecchet. You have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u101	Your Honors are here! It's a matter for the Ministry of Justice. This National Assembly, which is the sum of people, adopted on 31.5. this year a decision to limit the term of office for judges. This was a decision adopted by a majority of the Members, or 20 in particular, 18 against. Since the adoption of this Decision by the legislative branch of the Government, the Government has adopted a different position and has offered a proposal to the National Assembly in the form of amendments to the Constitution in which the judicial mandate would continue. I'd like to ask how this works and how much longer this National Assembly still applies. In the context of this and in the context of parliamentary initiatives and questions, I would like to break through the ignorance of the Ministry of Justice towards the Slovenian National Party on our issues and initiatives. On 27 September 2001, we also addressed to the government or the Ministry of Justice amendments in our opinion the solution of the judicial or judicial system within the Republic of Slovenia. As we know, legal tariffs as part of this system in our country are extremely high and are accepted by the Bar Association and confirmed by the Ministry. Let me illustrate that the sum of seven lawyers working for a simpler case costs this country over 100,000 German marks, or in my particular case, where I also provided documentation to the Ministry, over 12 million Slovenian tolars. For a single organised group accused of petty theft. Since it seems to us in the Slovenian National Party to do this very irrational work with budgetary money, which on the one hand is the money of all of us taxpayers, and on the other hand the sobness, for example, to the legal profession within the Republic of Slovenia, we have proposed two separate solutions. The first is that lawyers are separated from lawyers on the orders of a customer acting on a market basis and on the basis of a legal tariff approved by the Ministry of Justice into 50% of the existing legal tariff. This would thus relieve the country of 50% of the costs incurred by lawyers in our country. And second, that the second part of lawyers, which of course is distributed, first to lawyers by order of the client and second, lawyers by official duty, paid on the basis of the payment system and thus counted as employees in the public administration for their regular salary. We are confident that in these ways, on the one hand, by restricting the judicial mandate or the judicial mandate and, on the other hand, by resolving the payment, this country would be burdened by the European standard of judicial arrears. I would like to ask for an answer to why there has not yet been an answer to these initiatives and, if you think it makes no sense, in what sense this initiative is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much, buddy. Minister Bizjak will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u103	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the decision of the National Assembly concerning a limited mandate. I do not have this moment before me, as I recall it, but the conclusion of this assembly has gone in this direction, that the government should examine the question of the mandate of judges and, of course, this aspect of the sustainability of this mandate. In this regard, of course, I must make it very clear that this was done, on the one hand, within the framework of the expert working group which was preparing a proposal to amend the Constitution. The result of the work of this expert working group, which was also endorsed by the government and sent to this national assembly, was received. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the decision on the details of these provisions is within the competence of the national assembly, and I must stress explicitly that the Ministry strongly opposes the withdrawal of the permanent term of office of judges. With regard to the second question or initiative already put forward, it is of course necessary to say that the position on this initiative will be mediated, that this initiative is by no means in accordance with the existing law on lawyering and that its implementation on the one hand would require a change of law and, on the other hand, would constitute an extremely serious intervention in a wide range of rights, not only lawyers, but also those concerned with the representation of lawyers. As a result, there is a great deal of question in which work, and even if such an initiative, is to be implemented. On the other hand, I'd say the following. The Ministry of Justice shall coordinate with the Bar on certain provisions of legal tariffs, in particular with regard to such amendments, which would have an impact on the acceleration of judicial proceedings. Here I am thinking in particular of such tariff changes as to promote settlement and such tariff changes as to stimulate the active role of the lawyer for the swiftest possible judicial decision. This also raises the issue of representation under official responsibility. As part of the preparation of the legal tariff changes that I expect to happen, we will also examine these issues. However, it is of course that, according to the rules in force, the legal rate is fixed by the Bar and that the Minister of Justice gives it only the consent. For any other breach of the legal tariff, it would, of course, be necessary to amend the rules accordingly, i.e. the Law on Lawyers and, on this basis, the tariff. That's all I can say for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I see that my colleague Peca wants to ask an additional, complementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u105	Mr Bizjak, I cannot say that I admire your conclusion that this represents a serious intervention. Of course, since the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia is a serious problem with its backlog. To agree on the theory that the Ministry of Justice does not agree with the decision of the National Assembly, Mr Bizjak, do you at all distinguish between the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of power? [[...]] The National Assembly has taken a decision, and I can quote it to you now, but I will not take this time or throw it away. Second thing I want to say to you. Of course, we wrote our proposal to get the Ministry of Justice to embark on a new judiciary system in the Republic of Slovenia. And this is possible only in the form of legislation. With this judiciary in this country, on the one hand with judicial backlogs, on the other hand with such high legal tariffs that seven people for a few hours of work charge - excuse me, I will use German stamps - over 100,000 German stamps and so that the work runs into your positive approval; please, where we live. All that the Slovenian National Party requires or requests you and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a law, a law that will put the judiciary in a position where it will be forced to work effectively and qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u106	Minister Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u107	Dear Mr. Pache. Perhaps it is a shame, however, that you did not quote the conclusion, since it might be easier to see that there is no disrespect for the decisions of this national assembly. With regard to the effectiveness of the judiciary itself, this is, of course, a completely different issue. The Ministry, as well as the government, has already taken a number of measures and has put in place a programme to remedy the backlogs. The programme was adopted by the government in March, and a mixed working group from Ministry representatives and the Supreme Court was established on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly, which will undertake research into the reasons for the backlog and, of course, additional possibilities for their elimination.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Igor Štemberger to the government. Comrade Stemberger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Professor Dr Lucija Chok. Although this moment is not in the hall, I hope that my question will not come across a deaf ear. The stay of students within the framework of public and private capacity is governed by the rules on subsidisation of students, which, according to my information, was adopted according to a procedure which was contrary to the conclusions of the Slovenian Government on student issues despite any coordination with representatives of the student organisation of Slovenia. In accordance with the previous rules on subsidisation of student residence, students who were resident in private had a monthly subsidy of 9,000 tolars for the 2000/2001 study year. In accordance with the new rules on subsidisation of student residence, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 22/01, students staying with privates have a monthly grant of 3,000 tolls for the 2001/2002 study year. At the last meeting of the Council of the Government of Slovenia for Student Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of the Student Organization of Slovenia was reiterated to the media and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, that the Ministry of Education would hold the floor and, as you yourself reported to the media, for the interim period from October to the end of the calendar year, ensure the payment of the subsidy to private students of 7,000 Tolars. Despite all the assurances and agreement with the students' representatives, the Minister has not yet signed such a decision. On the contrary, there are even rumors in public that the subsidy will amount to only 3,000 tolars. I ask the Minister, or representatives of the Ministry, if they are aware of the consequences of their decision and whether they intend to harmonise it before signing it with students' representatives, as provided for in Article 7 of the Law on the Community of Students. Does the Ministry insist on the news, and does it have any alternative - especially given the fact that the reduced subsidy raised a major question about the overall implementation of the private housing subsidy? Because due to the low subsidy in Ljubljana in recent days, tenderers have already deviated from the accession to the signing of this contract. At this point, I would also point out that the new rule actually reduces the level of rights of beneficiaries to subsidise residence in private because they have to meet the same conditions as students in public institutions in order to obtain a subsidy: personal price or income per family member, learning success and distance, which I find extremely controversial, particularly in relation to the proposal of the National Higher Education Programme proposed by the Ministry of Education and Sport. Or, in other words, if I say so; we're going to go back to the kind of differentiation between the poor -- somehow I'm going to use that word poor, even though it's not somehow in line. I would like to say that the poorest among the poor will still get less than all the poor students have received so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. The question was addressed to the Ministry of Education. Dr. Stantic, Secretary of State, will answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Stemberger, the esteemed choir! I propose that, due to the complexity of the question, we answer the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in writing, if this is permitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u112	This is allowed, of course, but this item on the agenda is intended to provide an oral answer to the oral questions raised. There's a minister with us right now. I think that there are several ministers in the National Assembly, I think it is right that we should be present in the Chamber, even though our fellow Members and colleagues respect the other obligations that the esteemed ministers have, but it is only right that they are present. Comrade Štemberger, you want to say something else or you will be satisfied with the promise to receive a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u113	Obviously, I have no choice but to satisfy myself with this promise to receive, I hope, as soon as possible, a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Comrade Kangler to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you, Chairman. I have quite a few questions for the government and also for the Ministry of Transport. Given the recent fact that the Prime Minister, Dr Drnovšek, has repeatedly stated that it is necessary and that the priority of this government is decentralisation. I ask the government: When will it respect the law in which we wrote that Dars has a seat in Celje on 14th Street. Divisions? And why does the government not comply with this regulation and not move these services in Ljubljana to Celje? That's the first question. The second question is: Are Darsa's services in Ljubljana in rental or ownership premises and how much does this rent amount to, given that the premises are owned in Celje? The second question, which I am also referring to the Minister of the Environment, is not in the Chamber, in the matter of the so-called known affair - at least I hope to say so myself - holding. I am interested, given that he himself visited the city of Maribor, attended a meeting of the city council and also promised some things. I would like to know when he will fulfill those promises he made to the city councilors and some other prominent political representatives of the city of Maribor. To date, the government has not adopted a single decision indicating that Minister Kopač was telling the city council Maribor the truth. I'm asking the government a third question. Given that the former Minister of Home Affairs is also now the Secretary-General of the Government at the same time, I ask. When will the government do all it can to bring a roofing law to the National Assembly for the supervision of intelligence services? Does this government realize that ten years after independence, this country does not have a legal regulatory activity that would give the Commission to oversee the intelligence services of the National Assembly such a legal basis as to be able to monitor all the intelligence services in Slovenia in a consistent manner? The final question is to the Minister of Transport, including v.d. The minister's not in our room. The bridge of Slomškov in Maribor. I ask three questions: Who, when, and why? And I would ask the representative to answer these three questions. Who is the one in this country who does not respect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? In view of the fact that the invitation to tender was granted, on 15 May, the deadline for the complaint expired, the contractor selected and to date the representatives have not signed the contract, although the budget has already been adopted, the funds provided for the construction of this bridge. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The second question is: Why is the contract not signed? [[...]] Is it true that it is to be expected to join the National Assembly to amend the national highway programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u116	Time's up, comrade Kangler. You can ask an additional question if you feel that way. You asked four questions. Which of the government's representatives will answer first? Perhaps the Secretary of State, Mr. Shaina? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u117	Mr President, Mr Kangler, the esteemed assembly. Your conclusion that Dars works in Ljubljana is correct, but it is also true that part of the activity performed by Dars or part of the headquarters of Dars is also in Celje, although, of course, it is stipulated by the Dars Act that he is established in Celje and all the activities connected to the seat are also carried out in Cel. Dars, by his function and his activities, is very attached to the work in Ljubljana, including most employees, key staff, is home from Ljubljana and this is also one of the reasons why most of the administration works in Ljubljana. This situation is Minister of Transport, Mr President, accepted as was the case when his mandate was assumed, and I must say that so far there has been no serious activity on this and there were no serious questions why the administration has not fully moved to Celje. I can say that we will take this issue seriously again and find out whether there is a real possibility, operationality, that this is also happening. Dars in Ljubljana works in rented premises, which have also been properly arranged a long time ago. As much as it costs, I can't tell you this moment, but I promise we will also answer it in writing, because this thing is numbers and I just don't have these numbers on me and I don't have them in my memory. If I can answer another question - I think this was the fourth question - what is the construction of the bridge, so called the bridge of Slomškov via Drava on the highway between Besnica and Slivnica. Your conclusion is correct that the contractor was chosen or that the call was made, the contractor selected, but for the construction of the bridge alone the contract has not yet been signed. Part of the funding earmarked in the Darsa 2001 plan is currently used for the preparatory and preliminary work necessary to enable the bridge to be fully operational and with appropriate intensity and appropriate quality. The contract for the construction of the bridge will be signed and the funds earmarked for this year will also be used accordingly. This will not jeopardise the dynamics of the works and, therefore, these works will be carried out in accordance with the national programme and in line with the funding options that - from the so-called petrol toll and other resources - can be earmarked for this purpose. So, as you are aware, the budget for 2002, 2003 is also being adopted. And this dynamic, or the means to be used in this budget, also needs to properly regulate the dynamics of construction on this bridge, as well as of course on all other facilities, and to adapt, of course, to the priorities set out in the current national programme rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, will also answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassador Kangler asked when promises would be made from the meetings of the city council of Maribor or the promises I made there. In this regard, I can say that two promises were actually made there. One was that the organisation unit for the management of the hydroelectric power plant project in the lower Sava was to determine what the company Dravske power plant Maribor would do in the way of merging the company Sava power plant and Drava power plant, which would of course have its seat in Maribor. This is because this would be the easiest way to transfer the concession from the existing owner of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, which by law is a condition for being a concessionary, to the main investor, this is the Drava power plant Maribor. In this regard, at its 41st meeting on 20 September, the Government adopted a decision imposing on its representatives in the supervisory board and management or management of the holding company of the Slovenian Power Plants to examine how to do so as soon as possible or in concrete terms, to read the decision "reviews the possibility of merging the Sava power plant Ljubljana and Drava power plant Maribor with its head office in Maribor as soon as possible. In addition, the management was obliged to examine, through the Director of the above-mentioned companies, the possibility of merger or acquisition in order to obtain rights of exploitation of water potential in the lower Sava, in accordance with Article 5 of the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava." It was realized. At this point, as far as I know, both administrations are preparing this study, Drava Power Plants think that with Dr. Kocbek's help, I don't know, with the help of someone else. I think this study will be ready there by the end of November. However, the fact is that the merger cannot take place before the equity share of the holding in subsidiaries is valued - that is, in Drava power plant and Sava power plant - on the basis of which it will convene the assembly of these two companies and transfer ownership to co-ownership now held there by the PIDs to co-ownership of the holding company, while the holding company will become the 100 % owner of the subsidiaries. Theoretically, this can be removed from 1.1.2002, but it certainly does not. However, I hope that this will not be missed in view of this theoretical first possible deadline. The second promise I made, and of course it is also in realisation, is the promise of the location of the technological business function of holding company in Maribor. As you know, the Management Board of the Slovenian Power Plant was appointed. The Director of Technology is Tomšič, who has so far been employed at the Drava power plants Maribor, and, of course, he is or will also be located in Maribor in the future with all this work cycle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u121	Your Honor. With regard to the roof law on security and intelligence control, I would say the following. Since you have mentioned me in particular, I must also take note of this National Assembly, that, as Minister, I, through the government, in this or the National Assembly of the previous reference, have enacted such a law, which, of course, was not adopted by the Commission. Other proposals are likely to receive similar treatment. However, the government has formed, a special coordination group has been set up in the government, led by the Director of the Law Service, and it will, in my opinion, at least by the end of the year prepare the basic solutions for such a roof law at the very end of the year. Part of this problem, which will also indicate solutions in the roof law, will be attempted by the government to present to the National Assembly this week, by amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the law on police, which has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Kangler would like to set up a yes, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u123	Of course I do. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has answered my question that he has literally told the truth and I am asking you additional questions. You said that in Celje, given that Darsa is based in Celje, some activities are being carried out. I would like to know what those activities are that take place in Darsa's headquarters in Celje, and whether you think it is appropriate, because most of the personnel from Ljubljana are that this is the reason that Darsa is established or that all the services in Ljubljana are. Then I will also propose to some other Members, because something from Styria is coming from Primorska, something from Primorska, something from Parliament to move to Primorska, so that the Primors will not go to work here and the government to Styersko, and the problem will be solved. As far as the bridge is concerned, Mr Shaina, you have literally admitted that it is a political question whether this bridge will be built or not. The budget of the 2001 National Assembly was adopted and the contract must be signed. I don't know why you and some others are waiting to see what the 2002 and 2003 budget will look like. I don't know why. And you're also waiting for it to come and I'm wondering if you're really going to bring the Darsa programme into the National Assembly in a way that would change the national highway construction programme, and this east-west axis would turn north-south. And that's what you know about building a bridge. It is well known because some politicians pressure this service that the treaty, although all legal formal conditions were met on 15 May, has not been signed to date. And once again, I ask you: Who and when and why did you and others in this country order that this treaty should not be signed? [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I'm sure all of you who are in the government must respect all the rules and laws. And the budget of the National Assembly is the highest form of law that you and Dars must respect. And if the invitation to tender was concluded on 15 May, I do not know where the reason why the contract for the Bridge of Slomš is not signed. Personally, I don't want to politicize and name here with you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u124	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u125	those persons who pressure certain officials of Darsa and the Ministry of Transport not to sign this contract. [[...]] However, if necessary, I will gather enough, most Members, so that we will also speak in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. A short reply will be given by the Secretary of State, Mr Shaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u127	So about Cele, I said we'd explore how and what's best. Of course, here we are obliged to act properly, economically and that Dars is operational. But as I say, this part of the answer I'm going to give you, we're going to send it to you. But it is about the signing of the contract. This facility is tied to the construction, I will say again, the highway section of Slivnica-Peznica and is part of this section. Of course, it won't solve anything on its own. It'll be resolved when the entire building department is in place. However, since we know that Dars would need to implement the current national programme by 2004, as planned, around 147 billion dollars this year, representing 52 per cent more than in the budget, and that in the coming years, in the 2002 and 2003 budget, there are also no adequate funds from the so-called petrol tolar, we are obliged to verify at all sections the dynamics of construction so that it will technically follow the normal professional criteria and that it will certainly be economically justified. The assumptions for the continuation of these activities are now given and, in this regard, the Treaty will also indicate the necessary dynamics in the continuation of the construction and thus the Treaty will be signed. What you said - of course, I have no right to change the conclusions adopted by this esteemed assembly, and we do not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Member Sušnik Franc will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials! My first set of issues and initiative are intended for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Health. It's about the next one. In accordance with the rules on veterinary and sanitary conditions for the production of food of animal origin and the placing on the market of such products for public consumption and in accordance with the prescribed frequency of the frequency resulting from the law on infectious diseases and the food law, some more than 14000 farmers of dairy farmers perform a medical examination twice a year. 14,000 dairy farmers are thus in a highly unequal position compared to farmers on the other side of the border, e.g. in Italy carrying out these checks every three years. I ask: Why is it necessary to have such a high frequency of inspections in Slovenia? During the period when the dairy farmer of a Member State of the European Union undertakes one review, our farmer must carry out six checks. This unacceptable discriminatory treatment of our dairy farmers further exacerbates the situation of Slovenian agriculture because the reviews are expensive and because they are in such a numerical imbalance with our potential competition. So I ask: Why and how is it even possible that such a criminal and discriminatory regime could have occurred? I also ask: When will the Ministry of Health, by regulation, set a lower frequency of checks for dairy farmers who produce themselves and exclusively on the farm? At the same time, I propose or take the initiative to prescribe this review every three years, as is the case in neighbouring Italy. On the other hand, I am devoting a second question to the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mr Kopač. This year, I asked him a question on the issue of ensuring flood safety on the Savinja river. I have received, I will say, a very extensive response where all the measures the government is planning have been listed. At the same time, we can note that there is no adequate funding available for the implementation of these measures in the 2002 and 2003 budget. On this side, let me say, there have been quite a few actions on the Ljubljana side of Troy. I give only an example of Drtajščica with a drainage channel, unlike the Stajerska side of Troyan, where unfortunately all flood measures are, unfortunately, still only at the level of studies and ideal projects. Therefore, I ask the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space: When and how will you ensure flood safety on the Savinja River, that the inhabitants of the Upper and Lower Savinja Valley, Celje, Laško will not look helplessly at every major rain and wait for the water to flood them, if not even take them away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I think the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Franz Potočnik, will be the first to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Sušnik, your initiative is in place. I hope that the veterinary administration and the Ministry of Health will find an agreement as soon as possible so that this initiative can be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Mr Member, I would add, in view of the implementation of my colleague, that in any way, the number of inspections for dairy farmers has not been made in mind, but has been set within some professional standards for this. We will, of course, examine your initiative or give it to appropriate professional institutions. In any case, I would like to point out here that obviously, given your data, only our standards are so much better than some other standards. Once again, I say: we will examine this initiative and see what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you. One moment, please, I think the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space must answer. He's not here right now. Mr. Sušnik, will you ask a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u135	Yes, I would at the first part - the question that is addressed. Look. It is evident that our farmers are handicapped for the same time period for five additional checks. I am deeply convinced that only one visual line, which divides Slovenia and Italy, cannot represent such a barrier that the frequency of the necessary checks on the Slovenian side is six times higher than on the Italian side. Our dairy farmers are thus handicapped, deprived for the same period of time for roughly 700 million tolars. This is money that is of great importance to agriculture and rural development. I can't agree or accept the part of your response where you're talking about a higher standard. It is necessary to ask if such a high standard is actually necessary, given the fact that we know that the dairy is not the only one who comes in contact with milk according to the organisation of farm work, where, in most cases, all those who have time or are at the disposal of the dairy are involved. That is why I will say that this answer does not satisfy me and I propose that you take seriously the initiative that I have mentioned and that the frequency of these reviews in Slovenia is equal to that of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u136	Please, give me the word please, Mr. Highlander first. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u137	Because it is an additional question or an additional initiative. In any way, as I have said, we will turn this initiative forward. It is clear that we will examine it by complementing this: not comparing it with one European Union country, but probably with several European Union countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you. The word is also given by Minister Kopach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The claim made by Member Sušnik that the Ministry in certain parts of Slovenia is doing the right work serving anti-floating protection, but not in other parts, is unrealistic. Within the available resources, of course, the Ministry of Environment and Space or the specific body in the composition of the Environment Agency is trying to address the worst problems in all areas of the basins, as well as the basin of Savinja or Sotle, of course, as well as in all other areas. While I have already presented concrete data on the funds used so far and on the planned period 2002 and 2003 very precisely on the Infrastructure Committee when the draft budget for 2002 and 2003 was being considered. However, if you wish, of course I will send this presentation to you again in a special way as an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Please, I think we've completed these questions and the answers. Please. Complementary questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u141	Mr Kopač would correct in the part where he said "I did not claim that flood safety was unevenly regulated; however, I argued that in the context of the construction of the motorway section Vransko-Blagovica and beyond Ljubljana in Ljubljana's part of Troyan, a number of measures had been taken to mitigate the negative consequences of the construction of the highway on flood safety. That's the fact that we witnessed the opening of that channel, because, I'm gonna say, this infestation of the Dratschits has already activated. But it is true that these same consequences of the construction of the highway on the Styrian side of Troy remain unrepaired or uncompensated and remain only at the level of ideas and ideas. This is what we see on the ground, and this is therefore part of the issue that I have raised with regard to the flood safety of Savinja as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u143	I just want to say that if that's the case, then the question is not addressed to the right address. The measures to be implemented in the event of interventions to the premises are the obligation of the investor. In this case, of course, Dars d.d. or the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall provide resources only to remedy the effects of interventions where there is a sale of beaches or different consequences of floods and in the case of the provision of funds for water management facilities which are not related to any other intervention into a space such as a road. So I suggest you ask a question to the relevant department.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Digacz. The next question will be raised by colleague Barovic to the government. Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable four ministers, Mr Bizjak, Mr Kopač, Mr Bohinc and Mr Dimovski, distinguished representative and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues in the National Assembly. I am asking the question of both the Ministry of Finance and the government. Trbovlje Municipality was co-founder of Ljubljana Banka d.d., Ljubljana in 1990. Its founding share at the time was 3 million and 550 thousand tolars, for which it received 3,000, 550 shares at the value of thousands of tolars. The stock value later increased to 4 million 700,000 tolars. The municipality of Trbovlje regularly asked Ljubljana Bank d.d., Ljubljana to report to them the latest bookkeeping situation of shares or the value of shares of the municipality in Ljubljana Bank, the successor of which became Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Ljubljana. Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d., Ljubljana Municipality of Trbovlje answered, but sent the municipality to the Ministry of Finance. On 11 October 2001, 11 years later, the Ministry of Finance replied that the municipality of Trbovlje does not have any rights under shares. In a word, their founding share, their shares, is gone. The justification given by the Ministry of Finance in the first paragraph reads: "With the decision of Banka Slovenije of 27 January 1993 on the establishment of the recovery procedure in the Ljubljana Bank, the rights of founders on the basis of capital deposits ceased" and so on and so on. And the municipal leadership, which of course consists of members of liberal democracy, coldly suggested to the municipal council of the municipality of Trbovlje that on Monday's meeting the claims of the municipality of Trbovlje for investments in shares to Ljubljana Bank d.d., Ljubljana amounting to 4 million 615 thousand tolars. So write off the claim of already poor congregations. This is a well-respected success story and the story of the rule of law, at least for me, ends. It's not a clean story. After 11 years, 11 years, according to the data given, the municipality of Trbovlje found out that its founding stake was no longer there. And this: just at the time of the privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank. In view of the duties and rights I have as a Member, please and I request the Government and the competent ministries to clarify precisely and in a clear manner two questions. First time. Why was the municipality of Trbovlje not informed about the fate of its founding share in its shares in 1993, since it could sell or use these shares for the benefit of 20 000 people in the municipality of Trbovlje? And next time, I'll be done in a minute. If the municipality of Trbovlje, as a shareholder of the Ljubljana Bank, has been informed in time of the fate of its founding share, please and request information on when the municipality was informed and who was informed. This request is justified by the fact that once and for all we will end up with collective responsibility or better said irresponsibility and demand legal responsibility from the mayor and municipal administration of the municipality of Trebovlje, who was then in power and who was informed of the fate of the founding part of the municipality, and, on purpose, caused damage to the municipality of Trbovlje of 4 million, 615 thousand tolars for personal gain or negligence. Thank you so much for the few seconds you gave me. Because I also know that I'm not going to get an oral response right now, I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, will you respond? Mr. Concan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u147	Your Honor! Of course, as you state the information you require, we will, of course, deliver it to you in writing. But you yourself quoted in this introductory question that the Bank of Slovenia issued a decision on some legal basis and probably such a legal act was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Knowing that Latin saying that ignorance of law is damaging. And perhaps, I suppose, we will carefully consider this, that, of course, someone is not obliged when an act, a law such as this is adopted and published in the Official Journal, to inform particularly some affected parties, but of course, laws in the Official Journal should be followed and of course also reacted to them. So I suppose this is the reason, because this year, as the Ministry of Finance, we answered this question because we were directly asked when this was in force or on what legal basis the municipality of Trbovlje obviously lost these founding rights. I guess that's the reason. But we're going to do the whole thing, along with the information you requested, prepare a written answer and submit it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u148	Complementary question, half-second minute, colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. First of all, not knowing the law can hurt. It is likely that this sentence applies primarily to the local authorities of that time. I hope you don't think so, because some colleagues with you from the government are using many "probably" - that we won't be around this. [[...]] I'm asking you one more time. Therefore, we can reasonably assume that the municipal administration did not act when it is necessary to act because it was not informed or because it did not monitor the legal acts and regulations issued by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u150	Would you like a further explanation? Secretary of State Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u151	Whenever, of course, we use the word rightly, we must always ask ourselves whether we have the right to judge whether something is justified or not. This is also known from the judiciary and from the application of legal rules. We can assume - it is fair for someone else to judge in this particular case, if any fair proceedings occur - we can therefore assume that, at the time, at least you have put this question on behalf of the congregation of Zagorje or Trbovlje, so on behalf of this congregation, I say that probably the congregation as such, the founder at the time or its representatives probably did not follow all the events. However, the question is whether the damage was caused at all, because this act, mentioned by the Bank of Slovenia, was not only directed against the municipality of Trbovlje, but against all the founders who entered these founding shares with the then Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, with regard to eligibility, the Ministry of Finance cannot judge this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u152	Okay, this dialogue is over. He will open a new one with a question to the government of colleague Mamić. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On 28.11.2000, the Secretary of State at the former Ministry of Transport and Communications, Mr Zarko Pregelj, signed an agreement between the municipality of Vipava and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, with which he committed the state to build a crossing at the end of the Log-Vipava rapid road, not only to make temporary exports. At the same time, he undertook to regulate the traffic regime of the main road G1-12 through Vipavo by re-painting the road from Zemuna Farm to the intersection in Vipava and all the other necessary things. Why is a promise or a signed agreement not yet realized? There were also casualties because the intersection wasn't built. Almost the entire Vipav industrial zone is tied to this intersection. I'm asking how long will it take to arrange the intersection and arrange the main road through Vipavo? It was said that the section from Vipava to Podnanos would continue immediately after the end of the section, which we opened to Vipava on 1 October this year. What does "that" mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Shaina, will you answer the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u155	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, Members and Members of Parliament. So, Dars, in the construction of Log-Vipava, the fast road Log-Vipava, on the fast road Razdrto-Vrtojba, rushed with parts so that this part of the fast road in the length of a little over 3 kilometers was already open and is dedicated to traffic. However, not all the work has yet been done and not all the obligations arising from the site plan have been fulfilled and these obligations will be adjusted in accordance with the dynamics, in line with the funds provided in the programme and in accordance with the options it otherwise has. I guarantee that all obligations will be met. With regard to temporary connection: of course this is an intermediate phase, a final connection to the undercarriage will be built later, etc. This part is already part of the next phase, from Vipava to Stirred, and for these works still needs to be described, and, of course, all the rules of the Public Procurement Act also require that work be handed over, or dedicated, to be carried out. The dynamics, the very dynamics of the construction of the fast road Vipava-Raztova will be the subject of the budget for 2002,2003 and also the subject of the rebalancing of the national programme. I cannot give such accurate information at this time, because the documents are not yet ready and you accept them.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. My friend Mamić would like to ask you a further question? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can ask the government of colleague Mark Diacia. Comrade Diaca, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished others present. The question I am asking the Minister of Environment and Space, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, together with some Slovene municipalities, has undertaken projects to build non-profit and social housing in which the housing fund is a co-investor. We support this project because we believe that everything in the field of social and non-profit housing has been left to the municipalities, which have dedicated themselves to this project in accordance with their financial and other capabilities. According to some data, 105 tenders have arrived for this joint housing fund and municipalities project, of which only 65 meet the criteria of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia. As I understand it, the criterion for the implementation of the project was mainly the price for the purchase or renovation of dwellings. Of the 65 projects mentioned above, only 24 projects are fully eligible and other investors are expected to negotiate the price. We are aware that the purchase price of dwellings is an important factor, both for the municipality and for the housing fund, as the income from renting such apartments will be limited. I therefore wonder: Is the housing fund preparing any other form of assistance or cooperation with local communities in solving this problem? And another question. How will the housing fund, by setting the maximum price of the apartment, control the operators so that the apartment is built in a quality manner? For the price is usually dependent on built materials and here the question is that there will be an additional investment in these apartments in the medium term in the form of permanent repairs. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Diaci. Please, Secretary of State Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u159	You have indicated that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has taken an active role in the resolution of housing problems in the Republic of Slovenia, when we have found that activities at the level of the municipalities are not active enough or that certain municipalities have problems either in financing or in obtaining land or in some other form. The Tao form of co-investment is, of course, now in some way the first offer and this circle that you mentioned is, of course, intended precisely for those who have found that under certain conditions that have been given in this invitation or invitation to tender, they would also have done so. However, this call will not be the last but on the basis of the experience of this first call in the coming years, of course, we would also continue with additional new calls. However, you understood in this starting point the correct starting point: in Slovenia we want to increase the offer of different apartments in all regions. Secondly, however, it would like to try to enter this market with the aim of reducing the price of a square metre purchase as some basic source. In short, we will enter into other forms with the congregation, but in the next phase, after we have carried out such a first round. Secondly, the housing fund is already in place and will continue with regular calls for loans or loans to builders at different stages either for new construction or for housing purchases. This form of aid will, of course, continue to be taken. We are also considering extending these housing beneficiaries, including for students' families and some other forms, I will say, from this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I see you're a colleague. Diaci, don't ask a supplementary question. That way we can give the floor to our colleague Yuri Malovre. Comrade Malovar, you have the floor. Can you, Secretary of State Novak, rule out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable representatives, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. I am expressing my own initiative, both to the Ministry of Education and to the Ministry of Environment and Space, and especially to the capital of Ljubljana. There are about 47,000 students in Ljubljana, some 30,000 of whom are outside Ljubljana. Many students drive to Ljubljana for a lecture with cars, two or four or even five together. That's where the problem comes in. The city of Ljubljana does not grant these students parking permits, although as a university place it has great benefits. Well, let me tell you. 47 000 lunches sold, lunch, approx. 30 000 rents, in Ljubljana spent pocket money and more, such as, say, tickets to urban transport, cooperation in the cultural and sports field. Let me stress that the infrastructure of Ljubljana was and is also built with the money of taxpayers throughout Slovenia, not just the city, but the Ljubljana City Authority shows a contemptible attitude towards the periphery, because parking places without parking and thus an additional rich budget of the capital city. It would be justifiable if the municipal administration had a programme to build new parking spaces, because there is more than enough space under the castle, where underground garages could be. At the request of students, as well as on their behalf, I give an initiative to the Ministry of Education, in particular to the mayors of the capital Viki Potočnik, who was elected with the help of young people and who also started a political career in this area to give students, car owners and those who temporarily live in Ljubljana a free parking permit. Thus Ljubljana will be a friendly place for young people, to future intelligence and, of course, these young people will also be able to thank in the future if the initiative is welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. If I understand correctly, this is now a kind initiative for the Ljubljana City Authority. We will inform the mayor accordingly, but if someone from the government wants to comment on this, he can do so. No, no, no. Then I give my word to our colleague Branko Kelemini for questions to the government. Don't you? Excuse me. My friend Cimperman has the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. On 20.10., the Supervisory Board of Telekom elected or appointed Mr Adolf Zupan as chairman of the board of directors of Telekom. On 11.10., the Supervisory Board approved the minutes of the previous meeting and, at yesterday's meeting, the Supervisory Board of Telekom cancelled the procedure. This is what my former colleagues in Telekom write to me, who are bitter over the supervisory board procedure. They continue: "The Supervisory Board of Telekom and, above all, its President, Dr. Tomaž Kalin, through the way in which the proceedings are conducted, have made a number of mistakes in the process of appointing the company's administration, which are and will continue to reflect negatively in the professional and general public. The procedure and the method of resolution will certainly have a negative impact on external investors as well as on the price of shares. The procedure has also been carried out extremely politically, which is totally contrary to the functioning of a democratic society." Therefore, on behalf of Telekom's employees, at least in the vast majority, I ask the Government whether the work of the Supervisory Board, particularly its President, is legitimate or how the government, as the majority owner of the company, will act against members of the Supervisory Board who have not followed the rules of procedure of Telekom. Thank you. Since I see that there is no Minister for the Information Society present, I ask the Government of Slovenia or the Ministry of Justice to provide me with a written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u164	But he's here, my respectable colleague, Secretary of State. Dr. Kalin, would you like to answer that question? Please. However, your initiative to the Ministry is still valid. Please, Dr. Kalin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure the ministry and government will answer that question. It must be said that it was not a resolution - it was a wrong assessment, it was a wrong word, it was a cancellation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u166	Do you have any further questions? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Sonja Areh to the floor - she apologized. So now he can get the word of his grandson. You want a word? Please, you have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the Ministry of Health or Mr Vrhunc, as his representative: Lately, news of the death of newborns and mothers is emerging mainly in the field of maternity care due to the professional mistakes of doctors and maternity staff. On the other hand, Slovenia, according to the World Health Organization, is one of the countries where health care is well-ordered and several birthplaces in Slovenia bear the mark 'a child-friendly maternity hospital'. In the media, you've been predicting quite a few changes in maternity care lately. There is a reduction in the number of births, an increase in professional staff in maternity wards. I'm asking you why you think there's been so many alleged professional faults with the medical staff lately. Will your proposed changes really affect maternity care so that similar mistakes will no longer take place, or are these recent tragic events being used to address the poor financial situation and other organizational problems of health institutions, which should have been addressed earlier? In addition to these questions, I wonder why there are more and more medicines to be paid and where will be the lower limit to which the State will continue to provide healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mag. Your Highness, the Secretary of State will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you for that question. I almost don't know where to go with the answer. If you start with how many professional mistakes have been made lately or how many have been in the past. It's hard to say there's been a number of professional errors lately. I'd say they're more accessible to the public. The public is more involved in these issues, and she is more interested in what is going on. Health care is also becoming much more accessible to us, even at the Ministry itself, or health care providers are becoming more accessible to the public and to the public, and their work is becoming increasingly clear. Around the sign of "baby-friendly obstetrician." We're just glad our obstetrics wear this sign. Let me say that this sign is not given by us, but by the World Health Organization. In a way, it's supposed to be a neutral sign, if I may say so, of quality. You mentioned closing the maternity wards. We didn't launch this, closing the maternity wards. We are just wondering how our midwives work or how our entire health system works. What will be revealed from our analyses that we are doing, I would not want to talk about this today or to prejudge certain answers. But in any way, we don't promote a priori of closing individual hospitals. These are probably more speculations that come from other titles. But now I'd basically apologize, because I didn't understand, I overheard that last part of your question if I could possibly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u170	Answer those who are indisputable, and then your colleague the Grandchild will complement you if necessary. Please, colleague of grandkids, if you can help the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u171	In the end, I just asked why there are more and more drugs on the negative list that need to be paid. Where will the lower limit to which the State will continue to provide that minimum health care?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mag. It's a peak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u173	But as far as the lower limits are concerned, it's actually very difficult to answer. We've now begun to renovate the drug payment system. We are aware that such a system is no longer suitable for a modern country and we would like to obtain in some way a reference list of medicines for which we would apply free access to each substance. However, if someone would like to have a superstandard, some original medicine, then he should probably be protected to obtain this superstandard medicine or pay for this medicine in his pocket. We are still looking for solutions ourselves, working on a new regulation on the prices of medicines that would allow such a way to finance these costs. Then it would be followed by the preparation of such a model, and amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act in this regard would follow. In any case, we are looking for a solution that does not mean a reduction of such rights for citizens, but rather an increase in rights in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much. You do not want to ask a supplementary question, so I would like to take the floor for the next question to the Government, my colleague France Rokavac. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am referring the question to the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the Ministry of Finance. It is known that the Republic of Slovenia has closed the chapter of the environment in negotiations with the European Union. This chapter, in particular in the area of waste collection and management, as well as the regulation of sewage systems and cleaning facilities, entails a great deal of obligations for the local community in the coming period. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that so far there have been no clear signals or instructions from the Ministry of the Environment and Space, or, in the event that private capital is involved in the construction of these systems, that the concessionaire is, in this case, also justified by the so-called Ispa funds, the real funds of the Structural European Funds of the local community. At the moment, local communities do not have these assurances. We do know, however, that the construction of these systems will present a very large financial challenge and a supply for local communities. In this case, if private capital plus additional Issuance of funds is not included, I suggest that the Ministry of Finance seriously consider reducing the contribution rate of value added tax to a lower of 8% when investing in these systems. The second issue is also related to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport. But I've already addressed him in my previous term. However, it is a problem of maintenance and operation with larger bridges or connections across larger rivers in the Republic of Slovenia. I come from one such environment, where only one local community has five such bridges that are larger than 100 meters. This represents an almost impossible financial contribution to the local community. In particular, in our environment, in this case, we have faced three such facilities, which in two cases the local community has only been able to solve temporarily, and the challenge is so great that even the multi-annual budget of the local community cannot provide them. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Who among the government's representatives will answer the questions of Comrade Rokavac? Please, Madam Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u177	Perhaps first of all I would be interested in the possibility of involving different resources when it comes to engaging pre-accession assistance. In these cases, of course, it is possible to combine different resources, both public and private and European pre-accession assistance. That's why we don't see any embarrassment here. Of course, programmes must be well prepared and other conditions met so that this can be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State of Kamnareva. Complementary question, please, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u179	I must thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Kamnareva, for these encouraging words in reply. In fact, I would like you to give clear instructions to the local community concerned, as such information is not being informed at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u180	Okay, thank you very much. He's asked for his word now, and he's going to get it, Comrade Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 8th regular meeting, I asked a written question concerning meetings or monetary compensations for travel expenses of members of the Supervisory Boards to participate in meetings of the supervisory boards of the subsidiary banks of the New Ljubljana Bank abroad. That's when I'm a magician. Darko Tolar assured me that I would get the answers in writing. I now ask because, in accordance with Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is stipulated that the competent minister must provide answers within at least 3 days before the next meeting, why I have not received these replies by today. Since I feel that I have wondered about matters that are also important to the public, such conduct is unjustifiable and, of course, arouses and creates doubts in people about irregularities or various concerns. I would therefore also ask for misinterpretations or interpretations to hide a lot of serious things behind these answers, but we will get them back as soon as possible. And today, one more question. In recent times, the media has generated a very focused and targeted concentration of its users on Members of the previous reference who failed to obtain a job within one year of the expiry of the mandate and who are or are still receiving compensation under the law on Members. I have noticed, however, that most of these Members, who have recently been named on television screens and in newspapers from former opposition or current opposition. I'm curious about something else right now. How many ex-members are now coming from current or previous government parties who have been able to work or have received services in the current government as secretaries, as undersecretaries and other high-level public administration officials, in various places of public office and in high-ranking enterprises owned by the State. I know you can't answer me right now, so I'm asking for a name list of all the former Members, where the name and surname of the company or organisation in which he's employed, how long he's been doing this job, and what kind of salary he's getting, if that's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. You yourself said that you expected a written answer to the second question, but at first I think the government must answer. Secretary of State Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u183	To this question of yours, why we have not yet provided a written answer, I must tell you the following. At your initiative, we have addressed a written request from the Ministry of Finance through the Supervisory Board, where the government and the Finance Ministry of their representative have to request this explanation from the Administration and this information. Of course, we cannot generally ask companies in general, but this is the only way we can. This question, we have addressed this request through the Supervisory Board, where State Secretary Igor Kušar is also the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, administration. The Management Board is preparing a written reply and has not yet forwarded it to the Ministry and to the President of the Supervisory Board. I have the assurance that it can be expected as soon as possible, and we will also provide you with this answer in writing. It's gone, I think within a few days after your question, it's already addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u184	Are you satisfied with the explanation? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. The next question will be asked by Comrade Trofenik, who is not with us at this time. That is why we will call on a colleague of Dr. Tsukjati, who is also probably not in the hall because he expected a colleague of Trofenik to speak before him. That's why my colleague has the word mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have two sets of questions. I ask the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. Last year, we passed the Weapons Act, which provides in Article 14, paragraph 6, that a person who has conducted a weapons test may obtain a permit. Article 19 of the same law provides that knowledge of the handling of weapons shall be demonstrated by a certificate of the test carried out. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior why the Ministry of Defence's certificate does not apply, that the members who have served their military service are trained in the handling of weapons. Well, this certificate isn't enough. I further ask the Minister of Defence whether soldiers are not qualified to handle weapons after they have completed their education or serve their military term. Also interesting is the fact that the Ministry of the Interior granted three weapons-related know-how concessions last month, with no applicant from North-East Slovenia succeeding. One of the candidates for the concession that failed, it seems, did not have a suitable shooting range. This particular shooting site, which he listed, is used by the Maribor Police Administration and the Maribor Sagittarius. That's interesting. Furthermore, I would like to add to the question raised by my colleague Cimperman in relation to the problems on Telekom. We have recently seen a conflict over the appointment of Telecom's CEO. Appointing the Magnificent Lords. The Minister of State has repeatedly challenged him and said that the government does not support him. I ask whether the government has ever dealt with such a problem and taken any position or is just the position of Minister Dr Gantar. I'm also asking Minister Gantar if he might propose a replacement for Dr. Kalin. With these fluctuations, if I say so, Telekom has lost, or at least is its name, that is, a company owned by the state, that is not good for the business of this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. A few questions. First they flew to the address of the Secretary of Defense. This one apologized. Dr. Time is here instead, Secretary of State. I'm asking him to answer the first question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u187	I personally think that this was a question of the arms law, and you yourself cited this issue and referred to the arms law, where there is also a special test. I believe that the Ministry of the Interior or the police is responsible for these matters, because soldiers are trained with different weapons, less with short-term weapons or with guns and self-carrying. Such a certificate for once, as far as I know the arms law, of course, cannot be given within the Ministry of Defence because it is a special test for which only certain institutions can obtain a licence. That is why I think I will be complemented by the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u189	As the honourable Member has already said in the question, this is regulated by Article 19 of the Arms Act. It is a requirement to carry weapons with a special test of knowledge, but it is considered that the test of knowledge is also carried out by the rules of the State authorities, where the military and the police judge. If, therefore, a test of knowledge is carried out in accordance with the rules applicable to the military and police, or if such a certificate is issued by the military or the police to the wearer concerned, such a certificate will be issued. But it is a matter of which I think it would be good for both ministries to agree on practices. In fact, for what cases, including for what types of weapons they will issue, one or the other institutions, the military and the police, any evidence of a test of knowledge carried out for people who have held arms for a long time in their work. Thus, this question remains quite practical to be less answered in some agreement. As far as your questions about education concessionaires are concerned. It is true that three concessionaires have been selected so far, which, according to the expert service of the Ministry, are covering the needs in this regard, not only with their seats, but with the exhibitions they have in Slovenia. However, it is also true that this does not close the possibility for anyone who has the conditions that have verified premises for these purposes to be added to this or to acquire the concessionaire’s position for this activity. In short, if this is a specific case that you are referring to, of course, it is difficult for me to comment on whether this organisation has conditions or not. But if she checks in, we'll check her out like everyone else. I don't see any reason why if she met the conditions, she wouldn't get that status.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bohinc. On your last question, mag. Kramberger, a colleague of Kramberger, you probably do not expect the Secretary of State to answer, as you are asking the Minister about his responsibility. You wanted a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. On the last question, of course, I expect a written answer. However, I understand from the Minister that the Ministry will agree on this issue with regard to this competence. For the last part of the question, however, I am surprised that no one in northeastern Slovenia has acquired it. That's really possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u192	Dr. Bohinc, the minister wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u193	Just a little complementary response. According to the information I have, it will not be true that no one in northeastern Slovenia has obtained it. I firmly assure you that this has nothing to do with any possible regional policy of excluding anyone. However, I have been assured, but I will further check this information that regional coverage with archery or with such premises is even and sufficient. If you feel that it is different or that there are different assessments, this is a sure signal for us to check it further. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic. You're going to ask the government a question. Please. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, distinguished colleagues and others. My question concerns the law on the use of the Slovenian language as an official language. On 12.10.2000, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for first reading a proposal for a law on the use of Slovenian as an official text. The text was published in Rapporteur No 27.10.2000. 92/00. On the basis of Rule 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Janez Podobnik, President of the State Assembly then forwarded it to the Government with the aim of speaking about it. As we walk through the court of Ljubljana's capital city, we are satisfied to know that the legal arrangements for our language position are very weak. We also often hear in public demands that the country do something for its official language and language of public communication, because obviously I cannot rely only on the cultural awareness of individuals and on the effects of school education and education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet made a statement on this proposal in a year, although this issue of active language policy for Slovenia should have an additional weight during accession negotiations with the European Union. The free movement of capital and persons will surely mean or already means pressure on the public use of Slovenian. I therefore ask the following questions in this regard: Does this issue seem irrelevant to the Government, despite further warning in the European Year of Languages, or does it intend to react after one year of first reading of the law? And a second time. Is the government preparing amendments to the marriage proposal and to which article? Is he preparing the whole alternative proposal? I'm asking for an answer. If he can't give it to me orally, I'll ask you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u196	Which of the government's representatives will answer that question? My colleague Tisovic allowed for a written answer, but I ask. [[Nobody.]] Then we will receive the government's word that it will answer this question in writing. Since my colleague Dr. Bajuk has informed me that she will not raise the issue, you were the last colleague of Ana Marija Tisovic to raise the issue to the government today. Before I finish this point, I'd like to tell Koleg Tsukati he was late earlier today. [[...]] You want to ask a question? No one's objecting. My friend Cuckoo, a quick question, if no one's objecting. My friend Cuckoo, a quick question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u197	My question is primarily addressed to the Minister of Education, although even the Minister of Health should not remain confidential. It's an important question of the medical faculty. This year, 160 students enrolled in medical school for the direction of dentistry 48. This number hasn't changed significantly for ten years, although we have a new college and the lack of personnel is not a problem since yesterday. The average age of Slovenian active doctors is over 45 years and in some specialties over 55 years. Due to the lack of Slovenian doctors, 14 licences were granted last year to foreign doctors from the former Yugoslav republics. This year, 19 licenses. And there are 35 other applications. It is therefore expected that 54 licences will be granted this year to foreign doctors coming from medical schools in Zagreb, Rijeka, Nis, Skopje, Pristina and so on. At the same time, this autumn at least 100 Slovenian graduates remained at the closed door of the Faculty of Medicine. 100 unfulfilled young Slovenian wishes, although most of them are capable of a higher professional level than the universities of the former Yugoslavia. This year, 12 young Slovenian doctors who studied medicine abroad, especially in Trieste and Gradc, were also granted a license because they failed to enter Ljubljana medicine years ago. I ask: Is the Minister of Education aware of this, and if so, what will she do next autumn? The current system of enrolling in medical school is inadequate both by quantity and by quality. He is inadequate to Slovenian students, even unjust, and inadequate to national human resources needs and is harmful to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The competent secretaries of state will answer your questions. Maybe it's mag first. It's a peak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u199	You surprised me a little. Thank you for your word. Dr. Tsukjat has asked more questions to the Ministry of Education. I'd like to say this on our side. It is clear that we support as much quality as possible of education in medical school and, on the other hand, we point out that there is a need to verify the need, according to practice, in view of the need for implementation. When you mentioned foreign licenses, I would not know exactly what these foreign licenses are, but I would like to point out or mention my knowledge of the problem from the clinical center, when, say, we lacked domestic anesthesiologists and there was no way we could get them at home because our home doctors didn't want to work as an anesthesiologists. Therefore, we had to look for such doctors from abroad, from neighbouring countries, of course, assuming that they knew the same, at least as local doctors. However, the system is such that the doctor’s license is granted to the medical room itself, which in fact also has some insight, control of the network, etc. In any case, I would leave it open here for the Ministry of Education to make a statement on this issue, and the possibility of considering, of course, how to increase the number of students in medical school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u200	Your last answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Tuckati, distinguished, esteemed choir. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is certainly aware of this problem and we want to solve it systematically. In some ways, it had to be pointed out that uncontrolled student enlargement could have an impact on the poorer quality of education, which we do not want in any way in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Therefore, on the basis of your initiative, we would also like to discuss this problem with the University of Ljubljana and, as part of the autonomy that the University has, we would like to try to find a comprehensive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Before I conclude this agenda item, I would like to avoid any similar complications in the future, saying that we have the order to ask the questions sent in order to be respected. Earlier, a number of colleagues were missing and this probably led to Dr. Cukjat not being prepared for the question. However, I propose that, in the future, it would not be possible to allow those who miss the opportunity to get it, because otherwise it would break some order that is in force. I suggest that we stick to this rule and that none of us, not the others, are tempted to act. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for the answers given. I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. to discuss item 2 of the agenda. Thank you so much and have a nice evening, everyone.
