ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good afternoon. I begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting by the following Member and Members: Janez Kraberger, Dr. Joseph Bernik, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Rudolf Moge, Victory Jelinčič noble, Sonja Areh Lavrič for the afternoon part of the session, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Maksimiljan Lavrinc, Cyril Pucko, Davorin Terčon for the start of the session, Danica Simšič, Leopold Grošelj, Aurelio Juri, Dr. Miha Brejc, Alojz Peterle, Janez Podobnik, Josef Jerovšek, Jožef Špindler for the start of the session, Ivan Kebrić, Ivan Mamić by 12:00, Pavel Rupar, Jurij Malovrej, Silva Černugelj for the afternoon part of the session, Majda Prát from 17:00 on, Samo Bevk from 17:00 and Andrej Fabjan for the start of the session. We're going to have a presence at the hall, so I'm asking you politely to insert the cards! I find 49 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Nice to meet you. Today's follow-up to the 5th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the closed 5th item on the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Then we'll move on to the rest of the points in order. So we're moving on to Mr. Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	I'm asking what the secretariat's position is on the media law. You haven't told me yet. To this day, we expected them to say what they thought about the harmonisation amendment, if necessary or not. We'd better find out first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Service Communication is that the material is still being prepared and reviewed that it has been agreed with government representatives that the harmonisation amendment will be prepared tomorrow in the morning work and that the State Assembly will be able to decide on it. That's the message of the job. Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain what it means: in order of course. You said we'd start with a broken 5th point and orderly forward. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	"Next in order" means that we will continue in accordance with the purified agenda, this is the 5th point, as announced. Then point 5e - a proposal for a restrictive measure law. 5.f: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Triglav National Park; 5.g: Proposal for a Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education, second reading; 5.h: Proposal for a Law on Material Duty, first reading; 5.i: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence, first reading. These are the points which have been transmitted from the previous sitting. Then point 6: Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This purified agenda got you on the bench. In the absence of any other clarifications, we are moving on to the 5th C.E. of the agenda - CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTIVITY LAW, rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Zmaža Jelinčič. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, chairman of the committee, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. This law of procedure has a slightly longer tail. It is right that we are discussing it today and that we are likely to accept it. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, on the 1st regular meeting of the Republic of Slovenia, on 12.1. and the following meeting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Health Activities, submitted by the Group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption following a rapid procedure, at that time with the first signed Dr. Tsukjat. Since the representative of the proposer did not somehow present the law to the national assembly, it is also right to summarise some of the words presented to the members of the committee by the representative of the proposer, Mr Zmago Jelinčič. With regard to the opening presentation of the bill, Member Zmago Jelinčič said that the introduction of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Health Act was due to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the eight-year warning of the various professional services of the Ministry of Health to the irregularities that occur in individual medical professions. He also drew attention to the growing deprofessionalisation of certain health professions and to the quality, irresponsibility of operators, the growth of lubrication and the grey economy. With regard to the content of the amendment proposal and the additions, he said that the proposed law governs compulsory membership in the Chambers and the right of the Chambers to grant licences for the self-employment of members. Only compulsory inclusion in the Chambers can be an effective mechanism to ensure adequate and quality healthcare for the population. The applicant also considered that a suitable solution was compulsory membership. The latter has already been shown to be appropriate in the case of the Medical Chamber. In addition to the written opinion, the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs also orally highlighted the shortcomings of the bill's proposal, both at business level and in terms of legal and legal and technical compliance. However, he also stressed that the amendments tabled by the co-proposer, the Member, Mr Victory Jelinčič, and the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia almost fully remedy the shortcomings he had pointed out. A government representative will certainly present himself to the National Assembly when this law is explained, given that the concept of the law, as proposed by the applicants, is being strongly modified by the Government's amendments or put it into some kind of a different approach to solving problems. It should be noted, however, that the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia has stressed that the establishment of the proposed Chambers cannot and must not mean the separation of financial services as a whole. He considered that the Government's amendments fully resolve the non-compliance of the Health Act with the Constitutional Court's decision. In a long and controversial debate, the members discussed the integrity and shortcomings of the Health Act. Above all, they agreed that the law should be brought into line as soon as possible with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Some members felt that the establishment, maintenance and law of the Houses of State was important because they must be in the interest of the State and that each profession also assumes responsibility for the professionality and maintenance of the Order in its kind, thereby burdening the State. With regard to compulsory membership, some members felt that it was absolutely necessary, since the Chamber is weak without compulsory membership and it is only difficult to exercise the public powers conferred on it by the Government. The meeting was also attended by the presidents of the Laboratory Medicine Chamber and the physical therapists' chambers, who gave their views and justification for the establishment of individual health clinics. In their content, they also opposed the solutions presented by the government through its amendments. Following the meeting on 17.1., the members of the Committee were appointed to the amendments tabled. All the amendments of the Government to Articles 1, 2 and 3 have been supported by the Committee, but have not been supported by the amendments of Mr Zveg Jelinčič to Articles 1 and 2. On the amendment of the government, the committee drafted its amendment. Following the procedure, the Government replaced its original amendments with new amendments. It is also clear that all amendments which were first considered by the Committee and supported by the Government, with the exception of the amendment to Article 3, have become irrelevant. With this also, the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government. In view of the additional scope of the amendments tabled, the Committee discussed them again and decided to them at the first meeting of the 5th Extraordinary Session. In addition to the government amendments, Mr Zmago Jelinčič and the group of Members, with the first signed Mrs Majdo Širca, have also tabled additional amendments to the Committee. By letter of 15.3.2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew all amendments tabled in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act - the rapid procedure - of 11.1.2001. With regard to the newly tabled amendment, the representative of the Government and the Minister of Health stressed that the Government wanted to align the situation of chambers and professional associations and to specify more precisely the membership and conditions for the establishment of chambers or professional associations, which is also the subject of a Constitutional Court decision. In addition to the government amendments, members of the Committee received amendments from the first-signed group of Members, Majdo Shirca, for the new a1. Article 1 and the amendment of the Member of the Hellenic Victory to Article 1 for a new Article 1a, by essentially including - so that we can mono-technically include it in relation to all developments - a different title: that it is a1. Article 1 This is also shown in the amendment review. By letter of 21.3.2001, Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič withdrew the amendments to Article 1 for a new Article 1a, Article 1b, Article 1c of 12.1.2001. At the meeting, he withdrew the amendment to Article 1 for the new Article 1st time. Following the consideration of individual amendments, the Committee - taking into account the debate and further clarifications by the representatives of the Government - defined the amendments to the amendments: the Committee supported the amendments of the Government to Article 1 for new 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, amendment to Article 2 and amendment for new Articles 2.a, 2.b and 2.c. The Committee has not defined itself until the Government's amendment to Article 3, because it has already supported it with the same content or content at the first reading of this Act at its 1st regular session. The Committee did not support the amendment of the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič to Article 1 for the new 1.a or - as in the review - for a1. Article 1 The Committee has also drafted the following amendments as amendments to the amendments to the Government's amendments: amendment to the new Article 1, amendment to the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 1.c, amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article "g". By Article 2, the Committee had drafted two amendments to the Government's amendment for a new Article 2.a. By Article 2, the Committee has tabled an amendment to the new Article 2. And that's all about the amendments. On the basis of the amendments and amendments adopted by the Government, the Committee drew up a decision which reads: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt, together with amendments supported by the Committee, amendments to the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which have been drafted by the Committee on Rapid Procedure." I owe you an addition when preparing the review of the amendments for the 4th regular session of the National Assembly. When considering the material at the 4th regular session - this law was transposed into 5 - it was found that the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, in addition to the amendments mentioned in the additional report I mentioned earlier, had also drafted an amendment to the 2nd article contained in the review and you received it from 11.4. but it fell out of the additional report. Our committee's report is a little longer. It has to be said that the handling of this law has been slightly more turbulent given that we have been practically receiving and modifying amendments through, I would say - three procedures. The amendment review was made transparent. With the amendments, we can stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go, mag. Simon Vrchunec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me first to apologize to the minister who is a member of the government delegation in Paris, and today he cannot attend the meeting of the assembly and contribute to this point. In recent times, there have been several indications that the Government wishes to ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court, which finds that the Health Act is inconsistent with the Constitution. Our special message is that when we approach, we have taken seriously the preparation of amendments to the proposed law, thus clearly demonstrating that we do not wish to ignore the decision. However, we want consistent changes to the Health Act. The Constitutional Court’s decision states that the Health Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, in so far as it provides for the establishment of Chambers, but does not lay down criteria and procedures for the establishment of such Chambers. The proposed amendments to the part where they define six specific chambers and compulsory membership in those chambers exceed the decision of the Constitutional Court, while at the same time they are inconsistent in terms of establishing criteria and procedures for the establishment of such chambers. However, in the work, when changes speak of specialist outpatient activities, they are unacceptable from a systemic point of view. We have a definition of the World Health Organization, which defines an outpatient activity as an activity carried out by a doctor or a healthcare professional but in the presence of a doctor in the patient. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Health Act, we have been taught how this system is regulated in other countries: Western European, European Union Member States. In view of this and in view of the evidence I have previously stated, the Government has proposed amendments to the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Health Care, by which it is more precisely coordinating the law itself with the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, it also coordinates the other inconsistencies of the law with the amendments themselves, with the proposed amendments. In addition to the Houses, the Government's amendments also introduce professional associations, which may also carry out some of the activities envisaged for the Chamber or the institution of certain activities. At the same time, these associations also represent a certain top of the profession. The procedure for setting up and setting up criteria, amendments shall be binding on the law on societies and shall clearly define the established chambers and associations as individuals of private law. At the same time, amendments define criteria, clear criteria on the basis of which a chamber or professional association may run or be entitled to exercise public powers. The Government's amendments also define precisely the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to carry out professional supervision, by consulting until those powers have been delegated to certain other legal persons or until they have been allocated to other legal persons. The Government is also taking advantage of the possibility of amending the law to amend certain other articles which mainly regulate the scope of the work of the enlarged professional colleges and the Health Council. Such extended professional colleges are becoming the highest professional body for each area and the health council is the highest coordinating body among the areas. In this way, we give new meaning and new impetus to the enlarged professional colleges and the enlarged health world. However, the system of decision-making and health policy-making is becoming more transparent. These are essential changes, the content of the essential changes discussed by the amendments of the government. Dear Members and honourable Members! I propose that you support the proposed government amendments as a whole and also those amendments of the home committee supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much! Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Drobnič, please
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	Hello! Dear colleagues and representatives of the government! The Health Activity Act, as proposed, should be adopted. But the question is whether it's written as it is prepared. The new Slovenia has the following opinion on the text. We agree that it is necessary to arrange the procedure for the establishment of the Chambers. The problem is in the text because the supervisory function for the Chambers is unclear or poorly defined. There's not much left of that basic text. This, as well as the way the text was produced, was also said by the president of the home working body. In all of this, the government had its place to a certain extent, with quite different and contradictory amendments, trying to regulate a relatively difficult marriage text. Why a difficult marriage text? Because the Health Act - the fundamental one we have - is not appropriate for modern times and needs to be amended. New Slovenia advocates the free association of associations or performers. In doing so, the supervisory function must be national and public authority must be clear that we will not be in such a situation - as we have in the area of meat control, where the European Community has warned us that control alone is not sufficient, but that responsibility must also be clear. A certain confusion has been introduced between chambers and professional associations, and the legal basis for their establishment. Thus, we have a law on health care to establish, on the one hand, and on the other, a law on society. Pedro! No priorities are set. So it is necessary to adopt this law. Regarding the function of the Chambers, Nova Slovenija advocates the need to encourage that the Chambers or professional associations - if we already have such an address - be they supported in particular the education, certification and performance of the professional role they must and can carry out. In view of the above, New Slovenia, at the time of the adoption of this Act, proposes that within six months the Government prepare a new text of the Health Act, which will regulate the current disorder, adapt the activities of the development of health care for the competitiveness of services and the supervision of operators. We will present the decision in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, once again! The SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will certainly support the law. For reasons of being a legislator, this is the National Assembly, in any case due on the basis of a finding by the Constitutional Court - that the content in question is inconsistent or inadequate or disputed within the law with the Constitution or that the law in view of the possibility of implementation is flawed - this failure to remedy. In this law, the Health Act, the Constitutional Court found that the law, as such, provides for the possibility of setting up chambers in a particular health field, but does not provide criteria and conditions. Therefore, as such, the law could not be implemented in this provision and was a law with a specific legal void. The proposal of this law, and in particular the amendments of the Government and the Committee, removes the legal void. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the current constituency organisation of the entire health care system - including the additional possibility that this law now gives - needs to be studied and highlighted. There is a very real possibility that, by such a way of the assembly system, with partial powers relating to a particular health field of interest, a robust, urgently coordinated system of action within the entire healthcare system can be strengthened. This has already been pointed out, including by both the government and some of the debaters on the parental committee that prepared this law for plenary decision. The Health Act also needs to be redesigned as soon as possible due to a number of other shortcomings. We therefore expect that, given the reality of this claim, the Ministry of Health will approach this project as soon as possible. I must point out that we are pleased that the Ministry of Health has also taken a positive approach in dealing with this law - which, of course, at the beginning, has even been somewhat hasty, that we do not accept it as such. In this way, in this law, we resolve at least that vital part, which is so called the Constitutional Court. As has already been said, the parliamentary group will support the marriage as a whole. It will also support all amendments to which the Committee supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Your Honor! The principle of subsidiarity says that what you can do at a lower level is not tormented by a higher level. In health care and in the management of professions it is so important that the halls have their own meaning. Not only is order made in each professional group, but it is also ensured that there is continuous professional complementarity, in order to actually implement and take into account the division of labour, the register of workers and so on. But also to burden the country with all those unpleasant things, such as controls and similar things. Well, here was a long-standing initiative of these professions - who do not have a mandatory membership in their chamber, and were able to set up a chamber as a voluntary association, and their membership becomes compulsory - to gain public powers and to make their own order in their ranks. This willful country has not yet shown it. That's more difficult to understand, but that's true. The government also makes a sovereign decision whether or not it gives these chambers public authority. The Chamber in which there is no compulsory membership is in some ways pointless, head-on, disabled and unable to perform important functions. However, if we are based on the fact that membership in the Chambers is voluntary, that the State gives or does not give public powers and that we have to determine, at the request of the Constitutional Court, the conditions under which these Chambers operate and live - then there are inferences arising from the amended text, as proposed by the Government. It's about the next nonsense. If we adopt a government version of the law, then there will be the following shortcomings. The government text does not define the professional group and professional groups and allows the establishment of an unlimited number of chambers - even after several chambers in a separate optionally narrow professional group. According to the proposed text, it may happen that, say, physiotherapists in Celje will establish their own chamber. We will have not one physical therapeutic chamber, but ten Slovenian - three physiotherapists will already be able to establish their own chamber. I don't know if it makes sense to talk about such chambers and to think about the possible transfer of powers to such a chamber. The government text, including within a particular professional group, allows the granting of public powers to both society and the Chamber or both at the same time. This confuses public powers such as control, issuing opinions and the like. We've already had cases where, say, a physiotherapist wanted private activity. By law, he had to obtain, submit an opinion to the Chamber, and the Ministry also acknowledged the opinion issued by the company. We had cases where the company gave a positive opinion and a negative opinion. It was actually funny. Actually, that's not how you deal with a profession, a profession that you'd like to somehow put on that rank to control yourself. We therefore propose, subsequently with the amendments, that each professional group may establish only one chamber listed in Article 87. I think it would be helpful to support it. We've got one physical therapy room, one nursing room, and so on. If the Chamber is established with all the criteria required and proposed by the Government for delegation of powers, then it should be known that, if such a Chamber exists, that Chamber shall have powers and not any other society or similar. I think that these inconveniences, which may arise if a full government text is adopted, could be avoided by the adoption of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! That's a very nice welcome representative of the government, Secretary of State Simon Vrchunec. We also support important changes and additions to the Health Action Act in the United Social Democrats Group, as my predecessors have said in the first place, to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and to have a very comprehensive and in-depth debate on the Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. When this law is brought into line, the proposals are proposed by government, as well as some other harmonisations that have been urgently needed due to the requirements of everyday practice. Members of the United List found that, despite compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the law itself did not fully and satisfactorily regulate the status of existing chambers such as: the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, the Chamber of Health Care of Slovenia, the Chamber of Workers, therapists and so on. That's what they call all existing and registered chambers. Part of the dilemma and open issues remained unresolved, in particular in cases where public powers were granted in the procedural segment. The Joint List Group is aware that the issue of chambers in Slovenian legislation has been resolved in a very different way, since in the past years this Chamber has been established spontaneously when it amends and adopts sectoral legislation for individual activities such as the Pharmacy Chamber, Medical, Agricultural and so on. Therefore, there have also been such major differences as to demonstrate the competence and manner of functioning of existing chambers, professional associations, in particular their status. However, the Joint List Group sincerely expects to regulate, unify and put on the common denominator the so far established Chambers and to dictate some common normative solutions and equations. The Joint List Group expects that it will define more precisely the powers and rights of membership, consolidate the mode of control, harmonise all public powers so far and all that is necessary when registering public powers, in particular in the criteria segment. The Joint List Group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Health Amendments and Supplements, together with the amendments of the Government and the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	Since the representatives of the parliamentary groups who wanted to do so have presented their opinions, I give the floor to the Members and Members. There were no written submissions to the debate. Therefore, the debate of a Member who will take the floor is now limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.4.2001. In the debate and decision-making I first put two amendments, which are on the first page of the review, for a new paragraph. Under one is the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, with a note - they are identical amendments. Under two is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members, with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, first of all we are voting on the amendment of which the committee is proposing. We're voting! At the beginning of the vote, I find that the National Assembly is inconclusive, so I ask my fellow Members who have left the Chamber to join us so that we can make a valid decision. I shall determine the presence in accordance with the rules of procedure the second time. There are 44 Members and Members present, which means that, in the second assessment, it is found that the National Assembly is inconclusive and cannot make a valid decision. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes, where we will find the third time that we will find non-conclusion. I would like to point out to the Members that, on the third finding, a group that will not provide a third of its Members and, therefore, its conclusions will be fined financially. We'll resume work at 11.02 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Your Honor! After 10 minutes of interruption, for the third time, the presence is determined. I respectfully ask, honourable Members and honourable Members, to insert the cards and to ascertain the presence! [[...]] 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We have concluded the debate on the two amendments to the new article a1 on the first page of the amendment review. That's why we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under one, of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting! There are 49 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 13. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since it is in the same text as in the amendment under two, we will not vote on it again. We're moving to the other side of the examination. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the new article, the drafter of which is Victory Jelinčič. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're going to Mr. Highlander, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	I thank you for your word. I would like to emphasise - although I have already pointed out in my opening remarks - this amendment concerns the exercise of health care. Here I would remind you that the definition of a global health organisation once again defines an outpatient activity as an activity carried out by a doctor and not by healthcare professionals alone. Healthcare professionals only in the presence of a doctor. So this amendment would not be in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it again, we are going to vote on the amendment under the order number three of your review. We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was five to 40. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment, which is under order number four. This is an amendment to Article 1 of the law of which the committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 4 has been accepted. The Article is thus completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to the basic amendment, which is set out in order No. Eight views. Under 5, 6 and 7 are amendments to the government's amendment. Under 5 is the amendment to the Government's amendment to a new Article 1c, of which the Committee is the proposer. The government supports him. Under 6 is the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 1st, of which France Tsukati is proposing. The government and the mother's working body have not been identified. Under 7 is the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new 1st Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Under 8 are the basic amendments, the basic amendment for the new 1a, 1b, 1c, 1h, 1d, 1e, 1f and 1g articles of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you. The Government, as found, supports amendments under order numbers 5, 7 and 8. Still, I'd like to argue with Dr. Cuckati about amendment number six. The government here does not interfere with the powers between the chamber and the association. But it insists on allowing for the possibility of some public authority to take either a chamber or an association, given that it meets the criteria - these are clearly defined in the following articles - when can it acquire these powers. It's not an aprioral mix, it's a possibility of one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	I think that the government representative is wrong, because so far no professional association in the way that they understand it has public authority. I think Mr. Cuckoo is right in this case. I agree with him and with the amendment to the amendment under point 6 of the new Article and will therefore support it. There are at least eight chambers in Slovenia. You know how these powers are arranged. Nowhere is it a professional association organized in a social way and so forth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	Just an answer. Of course, we were taught what such systems look like elsewhere. There is no possibility that certain public powers may also be granted to professional associations. We don't have any reservations about that either. In principle, we do not support this amendment in the way it is written. However, I believe that with what Mrs Montenegro has proposed earlier, it is possible to define these matters more precisely with some roof law after the chambers. In fact, this system is when certain public powers are transferred.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	Yeah. Now progress has been made in this regard. That's true because now you've used the term, "Nowhere is disabled." But before that, you talked about how it was arranged. And indeed, nowhere is so arranged. I believe it's true after the constitution. Also, what is not prohibited is permitted. It's just that for things like this, it's probably gonna have to be done somewhere with some regulations. But I think it's really about time we got a roof marriage or some law that would regulate all the chambers. But when we have them [[Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture, Medical Chamber, which has special status, etc.]] , then this dilemma would reverse, etc., which has some status - of course with its laws arranged - is also, of course, in this law in any way possible and is not contrary to what is practice in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Because no one wants the Lord Gasparini, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	[[...]] [[Not included.]] the word association that there is a professional association in this text if there is no competent chamber. [[...]] I think it's already in here about the government's amendment. You don't have to say that twice. I mean, if someone says as one article says, "makes a competent chamber or professional association," means, "if there is no chamber." It is understandable that if there is no chamber, then a professional association can also do so. I think your amendment, Mr. Cuckoo, is already contained in the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please! Mr. Gasparini, can you turn it off?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Around these dilemmas at various chambers, as any chamber has already been discussed and discussed. In our country, the concept is that we have a compulsory membership chamber. There is no dilemma here that a State may delegate powers to a chamber where all those who are either engaged in an activity or are responsible in a particular area are required members. As such, they also have delegated powers. Remember in the previous mandate of the agricultural chamber and similar stories. If associations were professional, also based on compulsory membership, it would probably not be disputed to transfer State powers to such associations. However, if associations are voluntary - as we are dealing with them - and we can also have several associations in a certain area because associations are associations of associations, then it is probably very controversial to transfer state powers to associations that can be "at jack" organisations. For the time being, when membership in the Chamber is considered mandatory, I do not think that associations have anything to look for. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much! Mr. Brenčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'd like to warn you about the following. As a whole, the basic system of health care must be consistent and coordinated between specific health areas. However, the whole system of healthcare activities is not just areas such as those which have now been established. The government's accession - until there is a roof definition in the law, which will also radically change the assembly system - is, in my opinion, positive. Positive! These are not chambers - as I would say - that this is an economic-revolving, agri-land chamber - these are regional chambers. The system of normal assembly is in the system of a chamber. There are areas of expertise or interest that fit in to keep the system consistent. I support the government's approach. However, I do know that in amending the law, the system of assembly arrangements needs to be examined and firmly placed in a different content, i.e. more appropriate content. But for now - I think - this is the best solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much! Mr. Cuckoo, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	The question of health and the House is something other than the question of economy or agriculture. It's about protecting a patient. Just an example of labs. Since there has been no institution to monitor laboratory activity with the quality of laboratory investigations to verify and compare these results, unpleasantness has arisen. Some laboratory reports are no longer reliable or of such poor quality that they are not suitable for low-quality therapies. These are important things! If we wanted to regulate the case of laboratories consistently and in accordance with public interests, then we would adopt a mandatory membership in the law of all laboratories in the laboratory. One chamber, compulsory membership, public control powers, definition and verification and monitoring of certain standards and so on. This country has not shown its will to this day. That's a big flaw! Now we have free lounges, free establishment and free assembly. Now we will introduce an additional anarchy in which public powers can be given to different societies and different legal entities. What the government is proposing is an additional anarchy in this area. Our proposal was to ease the anarchy a little bit and not eliminate it because we can't. Until the government has agreed to the idea of compulsory membership and certain rules of the game, it will not be possible to resolve it. However, the proposal that we make is that it is defined, however, that the Chamber obtains public powers and only a Chamber if it fulfils these conditions. Not a parallel society covering the same area. This means that if a certain feature is so self-organised that it is sufficient to have enough of it by the staff, numerically and according to its professional qualities, then the Ministry should grant it public powers. I think it's a mitigation of the anarchy that is. In any case, it is up to the National Assembly to support what it supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much! Mr Gasparini has a replica of the implementation of Mr Sugar. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much! Well, first of all, about anarchy! If you suggest five, six chambers, then it is - even though you said now at the end, but that is a little mitigation - it is also anarchy. So, don't say that associations will now do 'I don't know what anarchy' because certain conditions have to be met, so that they can get these general powers. Mr. Cuckoo, there's something else I wanted to replicate for you! How can you claim as a doctor that laboratory tests are unworthy? I don't think it's right to say anything else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much! Replica, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	I have to respond to that replica. Since 1992, we have not had an institution to verify the data. You know, they used to run blind tests on a regular basis. For nearly ten years, these blind tests are no longer carried out. Blind test means he got any lab - let's say in Lower Cough, sample, he had to do the tests and send them to someone in charge. Then he gets permission to continue his work. I believe that, once again, a serious approach with some mandatory membership in such a chamber, where not only the laboratories would be members - but similar to the institution's pharmacy chamber, as well as the laboratory as a legal person and so on. Only then would it be possible to have the real professional oversight we need. That's what we admit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much! A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	I'm sorry, that's all. These blind tests are being done today. You know that transfusion stations across Slovenia send blind tests, laboratory tests, to the Netherlands. If you don't know, I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much! Mr. Highlander.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	If I may add that much. It's just not that messy. By obtaining a concession to carry out a medical activity - it is clear that it has been verified from several addresses, from the Ministry, from the health insurance company and so on. It is also clear, or I would like to stress again! We have defined, by means of this law, in the following articles, the Ministry's strong responsibility to carry out professional supervision by consulting where this power has not been delegated to another legal person. I would also like to draw attention to that article, which defines professional supervision through advice, which obliges everyone who carries out this activity to carry out professional supervision together with clinics, clinical institutes and so on. The fact that there is no mention of this issue here in this particular amendment is only a question of the relationship between the Chamber and the award of the concession or the public authority of the Chamber or the professional association. Once again, we want to put a chamber and a professional association on the same level. Our argument is that there are many definitions in the professional association or that the top of a professional group appears. We also absolutely allow the possibility that this summit is organised within the Chamber according to the criteria that we have written down: when we grant public authority, when we grant public authority. However, these criteria show who is more entitled to this public authority, either a chamber or a professional association. On behalf of the Government, I propose once again that you do not support this amendment in this form.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much! Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I didn't mean to advertise, but I have to say I'm in a big dilemma right now. Two doctors here are just saying completely diametrically opposite things. When I listened to the Secretary of State, I didn't exactly get an answer to whether Dr. Tsukati's remarks were true or not. So I would really like to get a credible answer to that question. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	In a way, I did not understand, Mr Beumann, what question do you think you would want the answer to? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	Look, it's that statement by Dr. Tuckyat when he's talking about not doing blind tests or that things in the labs are very messy. Because if that's true, then it's terrible. I think the government representative should be very clear about whether or not he is. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	I made it clear that things aren't so messy. Check out the one to whom the concession is granted. It is true, however, that up to now - until the adoption of this law or of these amendments, the government - the responsibility to exercise professional supervision was not clearly defined by consulting when the competent chamber is not organised. Once again, with our amendments, we clearly define the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to perform this function. We clearly define it in here. At a later stage, we will run into this amendment, a special article that assigns this task to the Ministry. Let's not avoid it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much! Mr. Cuckoo, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	Obviously, one minute more should be taken to clarify blind samples. I must say that really after 1992, this is no longer done regularly, compulsory as it once was introduced and then abandoned. Blind samples are done voluntarily by someone who is just so conscious that he controls his findings. However, I must say that more modern appliances are now so serviced that the manufacturer itself allows testing of apparatus. Modern lab equipment is safer than it used to be. So it's not that much of a fear. It's the next one. There is no licensing system, no extension of licenses - as they have, for example, some other professions - which would be linked to blind tests, to quality checks of results and so on. There's no system. I doubt that the Ministry alone or with the help of some society will be able to introduce such a system into the case of laboratory medicine - I doubt it. I don't know the case in the world so that a government institution can do it on its own. He can only do so through the system of chambers and public authority. However, we are not going to solve this here because we will not accept this proposal, nor is it in it to be a mandatory membership. All amendments and government versions go in the direction of voluntary membership. It's just such a proposal that it really doesn't matter what we accept.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment under order number five on the other side of the amendment review. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. In favour of 29 votes against 9. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the amendment under order number five has been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number six. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 27. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the amendment under order number six has not been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number seven. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under 7 has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the basic amendment under order number 8. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 9. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since we have adopted this amendment, the vote on the amendment under point 9 and the amendment to the amendment of the Government to the new Article 2a under point 6 is irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 2. Under 1 is the amendment proposed by France Tsukati, noting that, if this amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendment under points 2, 3 and 4 is irrelevant. Under 2 is the amendment of the Committee, which the Government supports with the same remark that, if this amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendment under points 3 and 4 is irrelevant. Under 3 is the amendment of the government and under 4 is the amendment of which the candidate is Victory Jelinčič. The Government of the amendment is not in favour of the amendment and the labour force has not been defined because, according to the amendment of the committee under point 2, it has become irrelevant. Therefore, I am putting amendments to Article 2, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	There is also a similar proposal to alleviate irregularities. The Health Act states that other professions can be voluntarily merged into chambers. But there's no mention of any room. There are a lot of these professions. The possibilities offered by the law are also immeasurable. I don't think if we're talking about chambers, we can't think about society, because they can really unite anyone, anytime, anywhere. If we're talking about chambers, at least we'll give you the typical professions that can be combined into chambers. Certain professions or certain chambers are also such that they include different professions, such as a laboratory medicine chamber. Various laboratory medical practitioners are pharmaceutical masters, chemical engineers, biochemistry, doctors, biologists, microbiologists, even veterinarians, etc. This is said to be a variety of professions that combine into some kind of activity. If he stays in the current dictatorship to bring professions together, then the laboratory workers can't get together or I don't know how. Here is a proposal to indicate chambers and professions what it would look like if, perhaps in the future, the government wanted to transfer public authority to know who.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much! Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are crossing Mr. Highlander, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you. In our proposal, too, we have only foreseen that the Chambers can set up legal or natural persons, not just professional groups. However, the debate then on the parental committee itself brought another dictatorship, which we also support. In any way, we want to insist on the freedom of such association, and in this case, when this interest is expressed on the other hand, it is said, on the part of one who unites that it is a person of private law. But when are we going to get the authority? That's up to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment to Article 2 referred to in order number 1. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 33. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 6. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. Therefore, the vote on amendments under numbers 3 and 4 has become irrelevant. Since Article 2 is completely amended, there is no need to vote on the whole article. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to the basic amendment, which is listed in the review under order number 7, namely, the amendment to the amendment of the Government to the new article 2a, the amendment under order number six is irrelevant and under order number seven is the basic amendment for the new 2a, 2b and 2c Article, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment of the committee under order number 5. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 7, of which the government is the proposer. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 2-time article, referred to in order number 8, of which the committee is the proposer. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 3, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus we have adopted all amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the basic bill. We are left with only a vote on Article 4 in the basic bill. This is an article that speaks of the enforcement of the law. We're voting on Article 4! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 32 against no one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and all amendments to the new Articles have been adopted to the draft law in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment, please do so. Before that, I ask: Does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	I just want a certain time before the third reading, what a day to study. I think there's some kind of amendment to be tabled. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much! On the basis of the proposal of the LDS Group at this stage, it is said in the third reading, as a result of the question I ask again: Does anyone want to discuss it at third reading? [[...]] If not, before deciding on the law as a whole, in the third reading, on the proposal of the LDS delegation to prepare any amendments in the third reading; at this stage, I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue when the amendment may be tabled in the third reading. Thank you very much to the representative of the government. We move on to the 5th Dot of the Day - Defence Proposal for a Restrictive Action Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We'll wait for a moment as long as the government's representative is in the vicinity. Mr. Peter Beckesh is joining us. Hello, Government Representative, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Peter Bekesh. He doesn't want a word on behalf of the government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Since the rapporteur of the committee, instead of Mr Jelk Kacin, who is the chairman of the committee, is not, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, who would like to present an opinion on this bill? Because he does not want me to give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the law. No amendments were tabled on the basic proposal for a law consisting of five articles. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting! I take it we're once again inconclusive. After counting, which was independent of the cards, we found that we were a sufficient number. [[Member Sok's announcement from the bench.]] Mr. Sok, that's not true. It's just that Mr. Christmas has joined us in this moment. We've had enough. The National Assembly was concluded because we count several times by hand, as agreed. 52 of us are in the hall. Mr. Sok, your objection was not justified. We vote on that proposal. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the five articles in the basic text of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] In accordance with the proposal adopted, we are moving on to a decision on all five articles. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that all five articles in the basic text of the law, as proposed by the proposal, have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want a word? Because no, I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading, and therefore no amendments can be tabled in the third reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Wait a minute! I'm asking the secretariat if maybe the law isn't in line. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much! We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government very much for their presence. We move on to the 5th FOCUS OF THE DAY - TO A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT LAW ON THE TRIGLOVAN NATIONAL PARK - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Dusan Vukko, the first to be signed. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Wolf, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to present to you the reasons for the introduction of the novel of the Triglavks National Park Act. We are aware that the protection of natural values is one of the most important areas in which the country must also intervene in its legislation. This is an important function of the state, which is now more important, but in the future it will be so important - especially if we take into account the circumstances and consequences of the modern economy for the environment and nature as well. Effective protection of nature and natural values always presupposes the introduction of certain protection regimes that ensure the protection of values in the public interest. Compromise should be found in the introduction of protective regimes of nature or natural values. Compromise between the protection regime and the development needs of the local population in protected areas. We note that the current law on Triglav National Park is obsolete since it was adopted in 1981. To this day, however, he has not experienced any significant change. As such, the law will need to be thoroughly recast and brought into line with the new system legislation on nature protection, or with the nature conservation law adopted by this National Assembly in 1999. The existing law on the Triglav National Park does not take into account the internationally accepted standards and criteria for the protection of nature, as summarized by the Republic of Slovenia in the Act on Nature Conservation already mentioned. Such an opinion is also agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in its opinion on the amendment of the Triglav National Park Act within the Ministry of the Environment and Space. In addition to depreciating the novel, we note that the existing law on Triglav National Park is extremely restrictive. Due to too specific protection regimes that do not take into account the development needs of the local population and are based solely on the prohibitions of certain conduct in the populated areas, the existing law turns out to be extremely restrictive, rigid and non-living. Since the existing law does not already contain the above-mentioned standards and principles, it causes the implementation of the law to conflict on the one hand between the local population and the other country. In particular, conflicts intensified during the period following the establishment of new municipalities, due to the concerns of these municipalities, the area of which also extends to the Triglav National Park area after some normal development. So there's more to the cause of the conflict. One of them is the developmental tendencies of the congregations. Part of the conflict arises because of the public administration’s governmental conduct in the exercise of public powers and also because of greater awareness, both of natural and legal persons, of rights in administrative proceedings. In 1981, the legislator seemed to be aware of the restrictiveness and rigidity of the law. Therefore, Article 14 allows for exceptional intervention. Article 14 states, I quote: "the construction of buildings or other interventions into premises prohibited by Articles 12 and 13 of the Law may be granted exceptionally by the consent of the then SR Slovenia Assembly". It is the fact that the legislative branch of the Authority has been left to decide on exceptional consensus. Interestingly, the use of this institute has not occurred in practice. Except in one case, in the case of the construction of the chapel on Kredarica. We fully agree with the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which notes that the exemption in practice was not applied also because the procedure for obtaining consent was not more precisely broken down and that legal interference in the protected area could not be achieved The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the law is therefore to enable the use of this institution and thus to enable lawfully - I emphasise - legal interference in the Triglav National Park area. In the light of the principle of the division of power, the applicants consider that the issue of consensus in administrative procedures for interventions to the premises does not fall within the competence of the legislative branch of the authority, it is said, of the national assembly, but rather that it is the competence of the executive branch of the authority, the government, the ministries. In this regard, we propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issue an agreement on an exceptional intervention. The proposal therefore follows the following objectives: - firstly, align the provision of Article 14 with the principle of the division of power, which is in agreement with the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs; - secondly, reduce the restrictiveness of the law, make it more lifelike and thus reduce the conflicts that are present; - thirdly, allow for interventions to enable and encourage the development of the local population; and, finally, for the fourth time, to rationalise Parliament's work in this way and not burden it with individual consents. We agree with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which set out in detail the procedure for obtaining consent for an exceptional intervention, which is also in line with the opinion of the Secretariat. The Government's amendments, which were in line with the novice's proposals, set two substantive criteria for granting an exceptional intervention: - for the first time, that an object, device or other intervention into a space does not endanger the natural values, purposes and objectives of the establishment of a park and will not, as such, result in nature distortions; - a second material condition for the granting of consent to promote and enable the development potential of the park's inhabitants. Since it is necessary to take into account the autonomy of local communities in the adoption of spatial acts, the applicants agree with the Government's amendment to Article 1, which provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall issue an exceptional intervention in order to give its consent to the spatial implementing act of the municipality which it adopts in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government of the Municipal Council and which also defines an exceptional intervention. Before I finish this, too. Following the inclusion of the draft amendment on the agenda of the national assembly, the individual media, as well as individuals, were afraid that the existing regime for the protection of the Triglav National Park, and that an intensive building of the Triglav National Park, in particular the Bohinj area, would be possible through the back door. Such considerations, in my view, are due to the lack of knowledge of the rules governing the protection of nature, and in particular the rules governing the area of land regulation, settlement regulation and intervention to space. All those who think that way, I regret to disappoint and to make it clear from this place that this is not the case. The proposed novel is intended to allow residents in the area of the national park to intervene in the area necessary for the pursuit of economic activities, in particular tourism, without jeopardising biodiversity, natural values or the protected area in any way. This is a change that will soften the stiffness of the current law on Triglav National Park and make it more humanly. When we accept this novel, our colleagues and colleagues offer us an opportunity to show and prove that we are willing and able to find solutions that will allow for a quality human interaction with nature. I suggest you accept the proposed novel as well. Finally, I would like to point out only one more editorial error that occurred during the adoption of the law: the title of the law says that it is a law amending the law on Triglav National Park. In fact, it's legally formal, but it's "changes and complements". The secretariat would like to take this into account. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much! The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice-President of the Committee, Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you for the words! Good bye to all of you! At its 5th meeting, on 7.3.2001, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Triglav National Park. In this context, the drafter stressed in particular the desire to harmonise the provisions of Article 14 with the constitutional principle of the division of power and to remove the unnecessary burden on the national assembly, which, by its content, falls within the competence of the executive authority. He also gave his opinion to the Secretariat of the National Assembly, which drew attention to the fact that the transfer of decision-making powers to the government would also be a useful way of determining the procedure for the award of consent and establishing appropriate criteria on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would give its consent. This was later discussed on the Committee, in which both the Government and the members of the Committee were involved. Amendments were drawn up summarizing the views of the secretariat and the solutions designed to effectively lay down the procedures for the government's participation in the decision-making process. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment supported the Government's amendments to Article 1 and to Article 1a, as well as the amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1 of the Group of Members with Dusan Vukko. After the discussion, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment agreed to propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Triglav National Park should be adopted together with amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much! Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the Prime Minister want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Dr. Andrej Bajuk on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposal to amend the law and to supplement the Triglav National Park Act in principle, because it is finally only trying to solve the open question that people living there feel very strongly. It's about that question. I guess that's what's needed. The fact is that it is not clear to us today that this law really solves the whole problem - in the sense that it has not yet been proven that if these problems have occurred, if the actual amendment to Article 14 will also solve them. They weren't in the National Assembly. The problems have arisen and continue to arise through a very complicated administrative procedure in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space and others who have responsibility in the executive branch. So it's not clear if we're really going to solve this. That is why we are also proposing, and this is part of the two conclusions that we have submitted to the National Assembly - that the State should undertake to review the whole Triglav National Park Act in the shortest possible time, let us say, within three months. In itself, this proposal only regulated in a sense the relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities. There are no theoretical reasons why a person can rely on and still insist and demand that legislators decide on the concrete actions that the current law allows. We believe that this is the right approach to our constitutional arrangements. However, we are concerned and have therefore proposed an amendment to the government's amendment. And that is - if you'll excuse me, I would like to read it: "that we have also included the consent of the municipal council of the municipality in which the property in which it is affected is located. We are aware that this is possible in our legislation. It is not clear, however, that as far as the specific scope is concerned, that the municipal council also has the option." Of course, there's a chance. However, we would like the Triglav National Park to strike a balance between the common interest of the whole of Slovenia and the interests of those who live there. The proposed solution maintains that instead of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the exceptional authorisation of interventions - which are prohibited under the Triglav National Park Act - are decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipal council of the municipality in which the property in question is located. The exceptional authorisation of the intervention therefore requires both consent in so far as the National Assembly accepts this, since the local community will only be so protected from possible pressures and abuses of power from the capital. If the competence of the National Assembly, which is now in force under the Triglav National Park Act, is transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to add the consent of the local community, the municipal council of the municipality, in addition to the Government's agreement on exceptional interventions, to the premises. By additional agreement of the municipal council, we would ensure that the legitimate wishes and plans of the municipalities regarding the economic and spatial development of individual areas, including those in the Triglav National Park, would also be taken into account. This would also avoid decisions that would be extremely unacceptable both for national interests and for the local environment. In any event, by amending the law, it is necessary to ensure that the protection of nature and cultural heritage in the Triglav National Park can be achieved quickly and with due regard to the exceptional interventions to the premises that enable the permanent inhabitants to survive there. We believe that the consensus of the government and the municipal council has ensured that such requests will be few, or few, in all these years since this law has been in force, as we have determined, presented only nine in the national assembly, which we have never discussed - resolved in accordance with national and local interest. At the same time, there is a double decision as a protector against possible abuses of power. Even in the former system, they were aware of the great value of national wealth in the Triglav National Park area. Therefore, they decided that the highest national authority would decide on the exceptional interventions in the area, which was the assembly. They knew that this was a tourist destination called after being used for commercial or holiday purposes. However, we must be aware that in the field of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia there can also be a relatively closed and homogeneous group of people, perhaps associated with related interests. That is why there is a much greater potential for abuse of power in the government than it is in the National Assembly itself. These are different questions, not legislative ones. The Triglav National Park is a common good for all Slovenes and Slovenes, so we must be careful not to become anyone's weekend pitch or maybe even worse. If the government is given the authority to decide on the relevant exceptional interventions to the premises, we will closely monitor each procedure for issuing the consent concerned. The best protection against desecration of nature and cultural heritage is certainly transparency and clarity of procedures. It is therefore necessary to work expeditiously on the proposal for a new law on the Triglav National Park, which will have to ensure environmental protection in accordance with the standards they have for such areas of the most environmentally-aware countries. With regard to conclusions - speaking of which, I would also like to explain that we have proposed two. The first is that the National Assembly is bound to address within 30 days all the proposals made by natural and legal persons who have requested a decision on their roles in relation to Article 14 of the Triglav National Park Act. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as I'm aware, until the last ten days, there are nine such requests in the National Assembly. I think - no matter how we decide on Article 14 of the Law, we must commit ourselves today to really debate, analyse and decide on these 9 roles. No matter when the marriage is. Because if we don't, these people who live there, who've been waiting for some kind of treatment for years and years, will have to wait until they're adopted by law before another bureaucratic machine really works and before there's a decision. Regardless of what we decide, the responsibility we now have today should also be exercised with regard to Article 14. The second proposal concludes that the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a new law on Triglav National Park within three months in which the protection of natural and cultural heritage will be regulated in a comprehensive manner and in which regulatory arrangements will be comparable to those in foreign national parks and in accordance with the findings of domestic and foreign occupations. In the future, only those interventions to the parks of national importance should be allowed in the law. This should be ensured by public and transparent procedures allowing exceptions. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much! Since no other group wants to present its opinion again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Wolf, please! The debate is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	In general, since we are in the general discussion, certain clarifications would be needed with regard to the implementation of Dr. Bayuk. Firstly, I fully agree with him when he speaks of the importance of the role of the congregations. Unfortunately, when this law was adopted, in 1981 the congregation, the local population was not involved in the adoption of this law. One of the basic principles of the new Nature Conservation Act is the participation of municipalities in these procedures when new protected areas are established. However, there is something else that needs to be answered. What he has said and, in essence, what they are proposing with his amendment, is essentially covered by the amendment of the Government to Article 1, which states that an extraordinary agreement is being issued - that is what I have said in my explanation - in such a way that the municipal council decides in advance when the procedure for the adoption of the spatial implementing act begins. The spatial implementation acts are: spatial regulatory conditions, possible wall plan or regulatory plan. When we sought solutions to the consistency of the procedure, especially from the point of view of the existing legislation - which the secretariat had pointed out - we found that, of course, the government as such could not interfere with the autonomous rights of local communities. The current law on the regulation of premises provides for the adoption of spatial acts by the municipality. However, since spatial acts have been adopted on the basis of the state's new guidelines and requirements and these exceptions and interventions, they are not allowed because they are prohibited by law, it is necessary to bring the spatial act of the municipality into line in advance. Otherwise, what we wanted to prevent could have happened was that the government would have passed through the congregation council or the congregation. This is so covered by this third paragraph of the existing amendment of the Government. That's why I don't think the contents of this amendment are necessary. About your weekend performance! You know, Dr. Bajuk, you may not be well acquainted, and you cannot be objectively familiar because you are only in Slovenia for a while. The Triglav National Park has existed for 15 years, even more, since 1981, it has been 19 years. During this time, in spite of such a protective policy in Bohinj, there were 700 taxpayers to pay the tax on rest and recreation. That's what it's about. 30% to 40% of the classic cottages. Of these 40% were placed on black 10%. The National Assembly tried to do this years ago, and it failed because it was too, too extensive. But the fact is, with the proposal of the novel and with the amendment, we have tightened the conditions. Here we have given two material conditions that I have specifically warned about and that I would like to remind again. That is why this is about the development of the local population and it is about interventions that in no way endanger the protection of natural values. This means that you can't even be a native or anyone in Bohinj in the central area of Triglav National Park to build - I don't know - a factory or anything else. Of course, the development of tourism must be encouraged. The current law prohibits a citizen in a settlement who is defined as a tourist area under the law on the promotion of tourism, to turn his own house into apartments or a broadcasting room. It's lifeless, that's togo. The administrative authority in the issue of consent merely referred to the provision of the law which prohibits it in Article 13. The story was closed. With this proposed novel, we re-energize the area of intervention. Because earlier - assuming that one political option in the National Assembly has a majority that can really do everything - the National Assembly decided in this law that Bohinj would build with hotels or with weekends, anyway, even though the law forbids it. We assess the proposers, and I think the government is following them, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] that we do not allow any intervention that is not from the point of view of the development of the population and from the point of view of the protection of nature. [[...]] That was the point. That's why I think there's a lot going on with this law. There's no one here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Mr. Wolf. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	I'm just finishing the thought -- no one is counting on him to go through this law, through this novel, either legalize those weekends that have been blacked out or set up new ones. Let's make this a message.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much! Mr Sok has the word and then Mr Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear Members and Members! I'd like to tell Mr. Wolf that no matter where Dr. Bayuk lived, there's been a Triglav National Park ever since. So the marriage may have been from 15 years ago. As such, the park has been in nature since it was created by nature. With regard to this amendment, under which you signed and proposed it as your first signature, this amendment does not remove the antiquatedness of the existing law. This change mainly - I would say - operationalises decision-making and brings it from the National Assembly to the sphere of government, is called an executive authority where you as LDS are even stronger than in this House - and I understand it through that - and that is how you want to take it there. I have to say that I was partially misled on the Infrastructure Committee because I believed that once the Republican Assembly, and now the National Assembly, did not want to deal with these matters. But later I learned that these matters did not come to the National Assembly at all. So they're left at the executive level, and that's, in administrative units, where these things should have been forwarded long ago to the national assembly, but they didn't. And, as Dr. Bayuk said, it's eight or nine things that are easily solved. With regard to the Triglav National Park, no matter what kind of law we will ever adopt, matters will always have to remain to a certain extent restrictive. Always! Because it is in the national interest and it is also the property of all of us, it is said, of all the citizens of this country. But I agree with all those who say that, not at the expense of not allowing any development there, but, I must say, for the locals. We are afraid that if this door opens too wide, it will then be built there not only by the locals, but also, perhaps - what I know - by the friends of Minister Copac and similar matters. You mentioned, the proponents, the official behaviour of the public institute of Triglav National Park. Well, I can't agree with that! The Triglav National Park behaved in accordance with current legislation. So it's not about any kind of government behavior. However, the law prohibited them from doing so, and therefore they could not give their consent to certain measures in contravention of the law. However, it could be done by the National Assembly if matters reached the National Assembly, but we find that they did not: that they remained in the administrative unit and that with this - there, in that area - there was a great deal of policy and, as I could also find out on some occasion, there was a gathering of political points that would be the one who would handle these matters. So, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, we have proposed these two conclusions so that this National Assembly will settle these matters as soon as possible, in order to give priority to these 8 applications, because they are resolutionable because they are not disputed, and to conclude these cases in such a way. As far as our amendment is concerned, I'd like to add this. The amendment refers to the fact that for these extraordinary interventions, which run counter to a spatial plan which is an act adopted by the local community, of course, that for these actions, in addition to the government's agreement, the local community should also agree. Well, that's not the same. The spatial plan is an act on which matters are then dealt with spatially. However, if a matter arises that is contrary to the spatial plan, then the government can give its consent and we can propose that the local community too. In doing so, we want only to ensure that the local community is equally and equally involved in giving this consent. And it will not hold that this amendment that we propose is already contained in the government's amendment. So, we propose that you support this issue and that we temporarily resolve this matter in this way. So, consent to these extraordinary interventions - both government and the local community. But I also suggest that you help us or that you take both decisions: one is that these applications, which are already in process and are really scary for a long time in process, that these applications be resolved immediately and that the government, by a second decision, be obliged to draw up a new law on the Triglav National Park within six months. For - and we agree with this - this one is obsolete and should be prepared and adopted for today's needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Four reported to the replicas, first Mr Partljič, then Mr Vukko, then Mr Gerencher. Dr. Bajuk, did you report to the performance replica? [[Yeah.]] And then Dr. Bayuk. First of all, Mr. Partlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	I thought I'd only have one editorial comment. I think it was necessary to have an editorial and a government amendment and an amendment proposed by colleagues from New Slovenia. But I'll do it in the form of a replica, because someone's outside waiting for me, and from somewhere else, I just have to go and check in, and I'll be back. On the inside, I would say first that I now hear that the political dimensions of this amendment are also at the rear; in fear that it will always be the Bather, and that it will always be the LDS. I believe that, with as large a majority as it seems, this fear is not twisted out of the vine, but the laws in some way should not work in this way. We should be valid - I think these people aren't forever and the LDS won't be forever - so I think this is the way to discuss [[...]] Secondly; I thought that perhaps part of the government's amendment was solved, but it wasn't because it was easy for administrative units. However, I do not believe that your proposal could be of great help if I think about how some municipal councils are doing, how they boycott the meetings, and how difficult it is to deal with what kind of things. I don't think it's going to be that easy, there's going to be changes - if you expect political forces, and the councils are political bodies, they're made up of parties - if you think things are going to get much faster there. However, I had a comment on the editorial, and I should also make it loud and clear that Mr Bayuk's comments on how long we have or what language he is speaking seem really inappropriate, and I think we could also point out that he should not do so in some way. I say this because, perhaps, my comments were not counted in this sense and even in presenting before a good year, when the issue of language was raised, I protested and said that many of us may have a worse language. Therefore, I ask you not to take a comment in this context. From the material that we received, this - as always - is actually a Slovenian model, although legally quite wrapped up, written only the material of the secretariat. There are some press errors in the building, Andrei, of your committee, and perhaps some editorial errors that might mislead understanding. Which is why I do not think that those who have to write these things down on these committees can be able to do so throughout the discussion. In the government amendment - I would warn the secretariat or someone - that there will be a need to be careful when editing. If I read the government's amendment, you'll see that there are problems in understanding. "The construction of facilities, installations and other interventions into the space may be exceptionally permitted by the agreement of the Government, etc. "If I subtract the middle way, etc. - I ask, but I can't understand - building objects, devices and other interventions into space. Either it's "building other interventions into space" or it's "building objects, devices and other interventions into space". Is it "building other interventions into space" or is it simply "other interventions into space" - I ask? I think it would be worth a look at the last line. This amendment, which is proposed by colleagues, where, as I say, the municipalities have the word, but I am not sure that it is worth writing down the "holy" precisely, because there is no reason for this to work. I suggest that one editorial may also be dedicated later, because I think it's all the same again. "Construction of buildings, installations and other interventions into the premises etc.," you add, exceptionally with the consent of the Government, and add "and with the consent of the municipal council of the municipality in which the property to which it is affected is located". There is no need to "not in any" and "not in the world of the municipality in the area where the property is located" or "in which it is located" etc. I think you'd need one of the vocabularies before you go to the finals.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I'm also going to replicate my colleague Partlich in some way. But not in the part where, of course, the vocabularies are concerned. It's about other interventions to the premises. It's not about building interventions, it's about building objects, devices and other interventions into space, or it's about just some building mechanism, or it's about regulating, or it's about mowing lawns, or what they have, or agromelorations. I apologize, given the warning of the gentleman, Comrade Tonet, also Dr. Bajuku, if that is the case. I didn't want to give any indication in that sense. The fact is, of course, that it is not objectively aware of all the problems in the Triglav National Park area. If that's what it was, I apologize and take the word back. In particular, I would like to replicate to Mr Sok around - because, of course, his debate is then a kind of politicisation of this issue. I'm stressing again. My primary purpose was to eliminate what was being hosted, to host problems and somewhere to be found a solution. If this were so simple, of course it would not have to be done at all. Here I would ask you to read the secretariat's opinion on this when it says there is not much change in appearance and much change in content. We will allow those people with whom Dr. Bayuk spoke well and knows where the problems are to finally come to this. I wouldn't go - where are the reasons, when you mentioned the authorities' conduct. You can't hide here. The Triglav National Park and all those who have decided to do so should, of course, also send customers at a certain time to use this instrument. But the opinion of the secretariat, which I fully agree with, is that the process itself has not been divided. Therefore, those attempts of some arrangement, as far as black construction is concerned, failed because simply the law, when it was adopted, it was given as a "flick" in there, it was not right here "fucked" well thought out in 1981, or this is so that now the proponents to report that we are here so, the basic purpose was to achieve the vitality and when it comes to these extremely suitable ones, which are really remarkable to enable it. [[...]] [[...]] And one more thing, I'm stressing again. As such, the congregation’s consent does not need to be specifically referred to. Because, what is more than for the municipality to adopt a spatial implementing act with a decree? This is not an agreement, it is their legal constitutional right under the law governing the premises or under the law governing settlements and other interventions to the premises. The exceptionality of this government's agreement is that, under the current legislation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not participate in anything and influences the adoption of spatial implementing acts - spatial regulatory conditions. This shall be adopted by decree: decrees on the regulatory plans and decisions on the background plans. There the government has no legal right to intervene. The Government shall cooperate and decide on the harmonisation of spatial components of the social or spatial plan in the municipalities. There, however, is a government that must cooperate by law, and the congregation must not, as a rule, accept changes in the purpose of the place without consent. And that's what's extraordinary. While all those interested will first have to determine, through the municipality, through the competent authority of the municipality, the mayor, the preparation programme and so on and the professional basis, the exceptionality of the intervention on the basis of those two material conditions. To the extent that the municipal council accepts this, it goes to the government at the time of the draft and a public debate. The government shall, in all likelihood, also assess the Ministry of Environment and Space or the Nature Conservation Institute or the Triglav National Park. And to the extent that they assess that all of this is OK, especially in terms of nature, national interest and so on, that positive consent and the municipality adopts an act. At that time, the act shall be legally formal and may be the basis for initiating proceedings before the administrative authority for obtaining a permit to intervene in the premises. That's the procedure. So I'm not going to respond to the replicas anymore, but again, Dr. Bayuk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	Dear Vice President. I have a debate. Because I can see they're replicas, let's finish the replicas first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Dr. Andrej Bajuk also made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much. More than a replica, it's just an explanation. The fact is that Member Vukko wanted to solve and find some answer to the obvious problems that plague people who are permanent residents in Triglav Park. We have a law, a law in 1981, which provides in article 14 for the possibility of these things being regulated. The fact is, they've never been settled before. And if you talk to people who actually live there, they ask you a question like you asked me, and I would like to present it to you. "How would you feel, Mr. Bajuk, if you said in your backyard that this is now a national park?" I think it's an obvious typical problem in which some common state good can be in conflict with the development and normal life of the people living there. On the other hand, the fact is that those people who live there have actually co-formed and must co-form this national park. Yes, what it will look like if they're not even there if we don't know how to find them and allow them to continue to live as decently as they could live in the 21st century! They don't have to be put in the way their grandfathers lived. But so far all this complicated bureaucracy, which is being mounted around the Triglav National Park Act, obviously does not allow it; but if it permits, people do not take it as such. When I asked, "Why didn't you make your proposals, they said hopelessly, 'Yes, we can't do anything." Why? Because they consider or estimate that the bureaucratic problem is so great that it is impossible to bridge it. Today, though, we have nine or eight in front of us in the National Assembly? such cases. So I suggested that we at least make a decision about this, because it is also our duty to listen to this once. The law gave us this task, let's do it. On the other hand, I fear that this proposal will not solve the core of the problem. We need a smart, sober review of the whole law that we need to bring "today" into standards as we know it elsewhere in the world; we need to ensure that these people have the advantage - and thus the great problem - of being permanent residents in the Triglav National Park area, so that they can also be guaranteed such a life as we all have. I see no reason why the law forbids today that an old "stand" or that was a dairy could not become a small apartment. It's incomprehensible, it won't change ecology, the National Park will still stand Yes, but why not this man who works there and who gives life to this area so that you can't get to all of this? [[...]] We therefore propose to address the larger problem as well. It will not be easy to find the right approach. But there will be no solution if we trust only the executive authorities, because, excuse me, colleagues and colleagues, the fact is, our bureaucracy is too complicated. Today, people do not feel like help, but they do feel like a lot of weight that they have to deal with every day. I think that this can be done and that the National Assembly should address this issue and resolve it. As far as the amendment to the amendment is concerned, dear fellow Wolf, all of this is true, but I think it is imperative that we explain also to the people in your constituency and to all of us that we stand for a solution that will balance the legitimate interest of the inhabitants and the national interest. Comrade Partlič tells us to turn around in one way or another, the congregational councils are also political. Of course, sooner or later every decision in each area is political. However, it is also the fact that local policy will come into force in all its diversity, as it will come into force in the executive branch, but not only has a political weight, but it has an enormous weight of bureaucracy, which does not allow and does not help us to live here day after day as we should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, Mr. Sok, and then Mr. Christmas. Here you go, Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Well, I must say, Dr. Bayuk has already told me for me what I wanted. So, this is exactly what I was going to tell Mr Partljić that the municipal council is the highest political decision-making body in every congregation. What he suggested that instead of "the municipal world" we write "the mayor", of course this is not an editorial correction, but a thorough substantive correction. But I could also agree with that - so let's simplify things if that's what the solution is. But what Comrade Wolf says is that the procedure has not been broken down so far. Yeah, it's not gonna be split up again! So, we change this law only to that - with this amendment of the law - that instead of a national assembly, the executive power that will work under these laws, all the others that are in force so far. That is, if we want these things to be resolved in a normal way and in the interests of people - a satisfactory way to resolve them - then a new law must be adopted first, which will have a different approach to this issue. As far as spatial plans are concerned. The local community, of course, accepts the spatial plan. But in its spatial plan, when it is adopted - every few years - it does not foresee all possible interventions, because potential investors do not know what they are all waiting for in the next four or five years when the spatial plan is being adopted. The government is now proposing, with its amendment, to put its agreement on this spatial plan. The amendment states: the government's consent to the spatial plan. In this context, we are proposing that, like the government - if it is later found that the spatial plan does not provide for all measures, all interventions - then the government will give its consent to various actions outside this spatial plan, so that, again, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the municipal council to allow local communities, namely, this function as a representative of the highest authority in its local area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am speaking as a replica to Mr Bajuk and also to Mr Sok. As an introduction, I'll say so. 25 years ago, I was involved in drafting the Triglav National Park Act, so I'm pretty sure I know what happened. We passed the Law on Triglav National Park and the administration of Triglav National Park takes into account all other legislation in the world, and this park is subject to the Law on Triglav National Park. Nothing else. What was missing now, and we wanted to fix it, is on the table. On 7 March, we also tabled an amendment to the government's amendment that there should be an intervention in the municipality's spatial plan in Triglav National Park. You said it yourself, and you talk a lot about what it's like in Triglav Park. I would ask that we convince people who don't live in Triglav National Park to understand that there are people living there. Those of us need to be told that we can't just give people who live in TNPs a limit. And I'll say one more thing. More than ten years ago, the then president of the Council of Triglav Park, Dr. Kmetcel, wrote to the government that it should be removed from the Triglav National Park Act of 33,000 hectares of total area of 87,000 because people live there and the law limits their lives. And when we consider a new law, we will also deal with it. And until then, I'd like to ask you to accept this. On 7 March, the amendments were already, today you brought new ones - I think they are unnecessary, except for the one that Nova Slovenija wrote that a new law should be brought to Parliament, but not within three months. Let's say it's until New Year's Eve: in six months. A new law can't just be written like that. We have come to so many conclusions as to what needs to be done until July that if the government only writes new laws, it will not do anything else. Let's get this straight! And this law - at least I thought that with this amendment we would quickly resolve a question that has not been resolved for 20 years. Do you imagine that there is nothing you can do for 20 years? How about if I told you, you can't go to work for 20 years? What do we think? You can't go to an election for 20 years? That's the same thing if you can't have big windows, if you can't have an import route for a passenger car to the house, if you can't turn a barn into another business building, and you can't do a wood factory, because in this area of Triglav National Park, almost everyone, most of them, is burning with trees. And, of course, I stress once again: for me part of Tretna, part of the Upper Soča, Bohinj with some mountains cannot be in Triglav National Park. There's too many people living there. And the second time we talk about the TNP, we'll also ask ourselves about the criticism we made when we passed the law. They said, "There'll be a better life in Triglav Park." Let's find out how many people are living in the park now, how many were living when the law was passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Christmas for these words, because we obviously fully agree on the approach to this issue. But I am also ready - I think it is very possible that 3 months is somewhat optimistic or misleading. It's just that we're really going to do this. This has been transmitted to me in consultation with the people living there, that they really have not been able to do anything for 20 years, and that we must admit this once and for all, there is life and we must make it possible. However, I also see that in your presentation, you do not object to the decision of the national assembly within 30 days on these matters, which are being put here today for our decision, no matter what we do with Article 14. If I understand you correctly, I am grateful for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. First Mr. Wolf and then Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	I'd only give one explanation. And, of course, this proposal is the subject of a decision. This proposal for a decision is, of course, as written in the explanatory memorandum. And I do not know if we have read too little: the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space is already preparing a new law. And on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, the programme of the Minister and the Ministry was presented: in June 2001, the first review of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the TNP law, which will open all these issues. And I, as a positionary, trust my government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. So, I volunteered for the replica, and I'd replicate it to the couples, so I don't have to answer the debate and try to be shorter. By the way, I think this marriage is good, but it's one of the other angles. Almost all the speakers in the end spoke of problems for people living in this national park. In fact, I claim to have a national park, or a protected area, or a protected facility, this is nothing else in our case - this is said in the case of our country - as a major disaster for those inhabitants who live there. In fact, a law governing a protected area, or a national park, or something like that, is one restriction, one restriction. How can people live within a single limit, where nothing is allowed, where it does not say that living there is almost forbidden. I am pleased that the proposaler also mentioned some nonsense about how you can't turn the house into apartments, because this would even be desirable because it is envisaged in the first place as a tourist area. However, to build a possible either upgrade or build on an object you already have, an object that will serve exclusively tourism is a godly desire. On the other hand, because everything is forbidden, nothing is allowed, it means - because life is needed there - that those people, and especially those who have nothing to look for there, take advantage of it and do everything in order. And what's most preposterous and most of all, I'm going to say responsible to Slovenia, but what it's not, you can't go after what it is. And inspectors who don't like to work with them simply with the excuse that because nothing is legal, it says, it's not, it doesn't actually exist. That's an excuse, and it can actually happen and do everything. This is another truth or other side of the protected area medal. I was also encouraged by the fact that, for example, legislation is lifeless and bureaucratic. Of course, because, after all, this legislation is adopted here or the government adopts certain by-laws or decisions regulating this life. And as I said before, because everything is forbidden, there are such national parks or protected areas of paradise for bureaucrats, and here they can come to their full expression, where they rely on the non-life laws adopted when certain protected areas are declared, and they cling to the fence as a drunkard and make every life impossible. I will therefore support any proposal that goes in this direction, as Mr Christmas has said - otherwise he has quoted someone else - in order to exclude certain areas from this space. If possible, I will vote three times - of course not possible, but I would vote three times for such a proposal, at least for the area where people live, because only in this way can people stay there and have normal living conditions. And there's one more thing. I don't mind if in such an area not only to build tourist infrastructure, but also other segments of the economy, of course those that do not interfere in nature, which do not cause too much damage - here I am thinking mainly of cramped settlements, where it is already urbanized in one way or another - and if there is an industrial plant that does not pollute the environment, it is probably also desirable, because this means that life will return here. But to have life there, it is essentially to have a park - without life any protected area or park is completely irrelevant and it is a shame to think about it at all, if no one will maintain it, because it is maintained by the best inhabitants who live there and know it most. That is why I look forward to such proposals as have been mentioned today and, above all, to the elimination of certain areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We have another debater, Mr. Gerencher. First, a brief replica, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	Very short. Mr. Petan, you said it right, but I have to say this. For people in Triglav National Park, life is really hard. At the time of the earthquake in the village of Tolminska Ravne there was something - so almost the whole of you were damaged and newly built. TNP demanded the construction of two barns instead of one, because for a farmer, according to the theory of current agriculture, one barn was too large. So, we built two barns. When we talk about amending the law on the earthquake recovery and development of the Suča, I will also say this. Why are we doing this stupid thing?Oh, my God! Two barns, one of which is too big for a TNP. What does that look like?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. He would also like to discuss Mr Gerencher. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. There's been a lot of talk, and there's almost nothing left to add. The only thing I am glad that you are united in two respects: that the Triglav National Park is our national wealth, the national wealth that we must protect at all costs; and the other is that we do not warm lives more than we sometimes heat ourselves - that is to say that we help them. This was also the purpose of these amendments to the law, which is in force to allow these people to regulate and act with agreement and in agreement with the regulatory plan to improve and facilitate their lives, and we must support this. More than nine applications are made at a national assembly in this area! These are the thick documents and all that's coming. Therefore, I know that these corrections must be accepted as soon as possible so that the Government, as executive power, can approach this. I wonder if we bring this to the National Assembly, we need to develop criteria for how we decide. We need that again for a while. It is therefore better for the government to do so, and until the adoption of the new law which is announced - I hope that three months will be the time that this can be done, and at least it will be the first reading, if not, but we will be able to endure some month - and then we will get a comprehensive law that governs this area. I ask that we approach the decision on the subject to allow these people, once again, to solve their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude in general the Lord Gasparini, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You talked mainly about the first paragraph of this article, which is open to my knowledge. There is no other paragraph, no amendments, no government, no Wolf, no one has touched today. But there is also a second paragraph of the original law, which says that some objects do interventions into space, the needs of general human defence and civil protection, and must have the consent of the Ministry of the Environment and then say, the executive council of the municipality. I think we could fix that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	He doesn't have the executive world of Tolmin and neither does Bohinj. That's what I meant to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Mr. Gasparini, just for an explanation. The law is dealt with in a simplified procedure. The applicant only opened Article 1 so that all discussions on any other article are irrelevant under this procedure under consideration by the National Assembly. Mr. Gasparini, maybe we didn't get along? Is he okay? Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. And given that it is 1300 hours, we will proceed to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill, in the afternoon work, so thank you, we will continue at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We continue with the afternoon part of the 5th session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 5th meeting on 25.4.2001. Anton Delak for the whole day and Franz Kangler for the afternoon part of the session. In the morning work we moved to a second reading - this is to debate and decide on individual articles and proposals of the law, this is the law amending the law on Triglav National Park. To discuss and decide, I am putting two amendments, which have the character of an amendment to the basic amendment, which you have listed under three on the other side of the review, is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the first amendment to the amendment is not in the review, which is on the table, an amendment to the amendment of the Government tabled by the New Slovenia Group. In the review, the amendment, on the one hand, is irrelevant, and under two, there is a second amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Dusan Vukko, supported by his mother's working body; and under three, as I have already said, the basic amendment of the government supported by his mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment to the government amendment, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the first amendment to the amendment was not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the government's amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the second amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a vote on the basic amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is located under order number three. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment under order number 3 has been adopted and Article 1 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 1A article, which is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment for the new 1A article has been adopted. We are still going to discuss and decide on Article 2 which regulates the time limit for the implementation of the law, and it is not in the review of the amendments, but in the basic text of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. As the proposalr put it, this is also an editorial correction, so to speak, changes and amendments to the law. Anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 1A were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask the congregation whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments have violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the New Slovenia parliamentary group has tabled additional proposals for conclusions [[You got them on the bench.]] , namely a proposal for an additional decision under number 1: "The National Assembly undertakes to address within 30 days all proposals made by natural and legal persons who have requested a decision on their roles in relation to Article 14 of the Triglav National Park Act." This additional proposal is that, given that the National Assembly has accepted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia becomes the decision-making body, I think it has become irrelevant with this moment because the State Assembly is no longer competent to decide. So we'll give the opening debate. [[...]] Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	I'd just like to add to your conclusion. Not only because we have adopted Article 1a by means of a law clearly stipulating that the procedure for granting consent under Article 14, paragraph 1, of the TNP Act continues "in accordance with Article 1(1)", but the proposal for an additional decision does not make sense. Since we have already confirmed that it continues under this adopted law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I ask the proponents whether we agree with this and then move on to the proposal for a second decision they have proposed? You don't agree. You want us to vote? In spite of that explanation? Okay. Since no one wants to discuss it again, we are moving on to a decision about Mr. Anderlich, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	I would suggest that the President teach us all together how to deal with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and the Government Act. We cannot bind anyone to do anything in six months or at any other time; even ourselves is difficult. You're the only one who can do it. This decision is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and in contravention of the Government Act. [[Vice-President: Mr Anderlich....]] If you put him to the vote, of course I will vote against him because he is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	Here you discussed the proposal under number 2, this is that the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that within six months - Dr. Andrej Bajuk fix - prepare a new law on Triglav National Park. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no, we are therefore moving on to a decision on an additional proposal for a decision bearing number 1. We are voting on this. There are 57 Members and Members of Parliament. The vote was 16 to 28. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision under number 1 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal under number two. We are voting on this. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 21 to 19. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision is set out in number two. Mr. Anderlich, if you don't mind, just an explanation. This is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not a commitment. It suggests that a new law be drawn up without being adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 5th-point of the agenda - Another defence proposal for the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education. Members Roberto Battelli and Maria Possonec submitted the draft law to the assembly for consideration. Would you like a representative of the bill's proposers to take the floor? Mr. Battelli, please! Mr. Battelli, you can join us here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly on the meaning of this law. This law integrates the special needs of the school system for both national communities into the general educational system in the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with both the legislative and constitutional traditions of us. That's what it's all about. For the second reading, we took into account all the views adopted by the National Assembly, together with the Ministry of Education, which had actually drawn up the draft law in 1997, with which we have cooperated with representatives of the national communities throughout its establishment. The most debates on the preparation of the second reading law were about the Secretariat's general comment on legislation and legal matters in relation to Article 19 of the Law - this is about the language of business, specifically in schools with Italian learning language. Together with the ministry and the government, we felt that the current solution was more appropriate in view of the previous 1982 legal solution, as well as other practice. Of course, the Secretariat's principle comment has a very high weight and raises a whole range of conceptual issues, which, according to the proponents, are not only resolved in this law or through this law, but would probably require a systematic approach regarding the use of the majority and minority language in national mixed areas as official languages. The government fully supports this law. We do not oppose the amendment which has been tabled and which is editorial in nature, so we expect and hope that the law will also be supported by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Commission for the National Community as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission on the draft law. Mrs. Maria Possonec, President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, the law has been dealt with by two Commissions for National Communities, the former and the present. On the basis of the debate, the Commission - including the previous - unanimously adopted the following conclusions for the national communities: "1. The Commission notes for the national communities that the proposal for a law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education is a suitable basis for a second treatment. 2. The Commission proposes to the National Communities to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the third reading of the proposal for a law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education be carried out on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." In particular, I would like to draw your attention to this second decision, because without this law it is impossible to organize a nine-year-old school in our area. Thank you so much and good-bye!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by Member Roberto Battelli and Maria Possonec, who is eligible for admission to the National Assembly. As an interested party, the Government has cooperated with its representatives, as has already been mentioned, in preparing a proposal for a second reading law and considers it appropriate to enable the realization of the specific rights of both indigenous ethnic and linguistic minorities, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the standards achieved in the Republic of Slovenia in this field, and also in accordance with the international conventions that ensure the preservation of their cultural identity, in accordance with the international conventions of minorities with educational and educational measures. The adoption of the law is also urgently needed to ensure conditions for the smooth implementation of educational and educational programmes at all levels, and in particular for the implementation of the programme renewal in this segment of the educational system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	Of course, I will support the law, even because I feel that sometimes in this discussion I have heard: always something new or something. This is a law that we should have adopted long ago if we were to complete a set of school legislation. So we're actually late and we complete the set. As for rights, however, you can see in one of the opinions that we are actually meeting the issues recorded by the Slovenian Constitution and European standards. And I just think that we are before we can actually adopt the law without problems as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any further, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 1. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr. Sok? Dear colleagues and colleagues! I respectfully ask them to look at the city of neighbors who may have their cards filed, but they're not here. Dear Members! Dear Members! After counting us in Chamber 46, I ask you kindly to insert the cards and remove the cards of colleagues who are not in the hall. Once again, I ask you to insert your cards, because there are 46 of us in the hall. We've already counted this twice. We're rediscovering presence. There are 46 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We are re-voting on a proposal that has been read before. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 3. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. Only one amendment was tabled for the second reading of the draft law, namely Article 5. This is the amendment of Members with the first signed by Mr Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 4. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 4. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. So we're done with the second treatment. In the light of the presentation by the President of the Commission, the National Community Commission proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the third reading of the proposal for a law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education be carried out on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, since the amendment was tabled in the second reading, I ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, is it possible that it is of a nature that we can also decide on the basis of this Article? Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	Madam Vice President, the House of Honor! In our view, this case is indeed an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In view of the interpretation, I propose to the National Assembly that it decide, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we proceed with the third reading of the draft law. We are voting on this proposal. There are 49 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the draft law adopted the editorial amendment to Article 5 in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since it does not wish to, pursuant to the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendment violates the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. Since this is the case under Rule 199 of the Rules of Procedure for a law relating to the exercise in the Constitution of certain rights and the situation of only national communities, it cannot be adopted without the consent of the representative of the national communities. So I ask the representative of the national community, despite the fact that they are the drafters of the law, whether, under Rule 199 of the Rules of Procedure, they agree with the content we accept in the third reading. Mr. Battelli!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In my opinion - as I would say - by common sense, if we vote in favour, it means that we agree with the law. However, if this still requires the rules of procedure, then of course I will say that I am in favour of the law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I agree with the law, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	Colleagues and colleagues! We move on to the 5th Dot of the Day - the first draft of the Material Duty Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I ask her if she wants a word. He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was examined by the Defence Committee, which is responsible for this body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Excuse me? He does. Excuse me. You have the floor. Mr. Marshich, Vice President of the Board!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! At its 1st regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Defence addressed the proposal for a law on substantive duty and submitted it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The Committee was informed of the draft law and also of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly. Government officials have given us the reasons for the adoption of the law, especially on the grounds that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of a New City citizen, has found discrepancies in the law on defence and the law on protection against natural and other disasters with constitutional provisions. The Constitutional Court considered that it would be a material duty to regulate it by special law. We were also further informed by government representatives on the committee about the arrangements for substantive duty in some other countries and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the objectives and principles of the law and the fundamental solutions in the law and the assessment of the financial and other consequences. The representative of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly has warned us that in the law, certain shortcomings which are editorial in some cases, however, should be considered in relation to the criteria set out in Article 15 of the bill, on the basis of which the holder of the inventory can request the postponement of the appeal, to consider also what constitutes a difficult situation for the individual and whether the discretionary right of the authority is justified, without a more precise definition of this concept, to assess the appeal. This, of course, has also been discussed by our colleagues on the Committee. In the ensuing debate, in addition to Article 19 thereof, the members of the Committee suggested that it would be appropriate to incorporate in the legal text provisions which would prevent recruitment for checks and, in particular, for motor vehicles of families with children who have not yet reached the age of 16 in cases where the family has only one motor vehicle. They also drew attention to the overly loose provision of Article 15 of the draft law and asked the representatives of the applicant for a more detailed explanation of Article 7 of the draft law that the records of the inventory resources, in addition to the data provided by the Defence Act and the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, also include data on the national’s home number or the holder’s home number. Other comments and what was mentioned in the debate are also mentioned in the minutes and the report. The Defence Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with Article 185 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decisions be adopted after the first consideration of the law submitted: "The proposal of the Law on Material Duties is an appropriate basis for the preparation of the law for second reading. The proposer should take into account the following views when preparing the draft law for second reading, in order to take into account the comments made by the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and to take into account the comments and opinions expressed in the debate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to join us in the hall. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Law on Material Duties, the first consideration, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll wait long enough for our colleagues and colleagues to join us. Today, 28 of our colleagues and colleagues are excused and it is understandable that we must work with great patience so that, as far as possible, we can conclude this afternoon's session. So I invite our colleagues and colleagues to join us in the hall. I'll determine the presence, but it's not sufficient, and then I'll order a recess. So there aren't enough colleagues and colleagues present right now. It would be enough for everyone to be present at the hall. 41 of us now, that's not enough. I suggest we take a ten-minute break and proceed at 3:30. I'm asking everyone to be there at 3:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	I invite colleagues and colleagues who are in the offices to join us because we will continue the meeting. Are you so kind as to look at your colleagues and colleagues if someone has a card inserted, even though they are not present? I repeat that 28 Members and Members are absent. Two delegations abroad, in Brussels and Strasbourg, are doing the same work as we are here and it is normal to have problems. Once again, I ask you to take your seats. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to alert their colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. There are 46 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision, which reads: "The proposal for a law on substantive duty, the first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 voted in favour, no one objected to this proposal. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the position proposal as a whole. There were 46 Members and Members present, 44 of whom voted in favour, none against the proposed positions. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] That is how they are fully accepted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to the next, the fifth-point agenda - the first defence proposal of the law to supplement the law on victims of military violence. The draft law was tabled by Mr Rokavec, a fellow Member of Parliament, for consideration by the assembly. Does Comrade Rokavec want a word? [[He does.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The proposed amendment to the law on victims of war violence refers primarily to the granting of the status of the victim of war violence to persons who have been deported to other areas for the purpose of violating their homes or at home when carrying out military actions by allied forces. However, in doing so, I should like to make it clear that those facilities or persons were not the aim of the said actions. This also left them homeless and had to flee to other areas. It is true that, after World War II ended, the circuit boards of the time, assessing the war damage, described the damage, admitted it, but have not received anything so far. These include areas called urban areas, areas of Maribor, Celje, Zidani Bridge, Pivka, Lithuania. With the proposal of the law, I want these people to be rectified of the guilt of recognising the status of the victim of war violence. Here, of course, I would also touch on the issues raised by both the government and the secretariat in their opinion. In particular, it is a matter of the basic article 1 of the Act, which states that citizens who have been subjected to violent acts or violent acts by the occupying, aggressor or their associates in war or military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia may be entitled to the status of the victim of war violence. I believe that in the context of the regular procedure, together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this issue could also be resolved. On the spot, however, the secretariat has also warned about the time-limit I accept for the legislation. Of course, it would indicate that, in the context of the regular procedure, the questions of the Constitutional Court decision adopted on 7 December 2000 are also resolved. In fact, the financial implications of the law are significantly lower, but with the amended text of the bill, there are a number of 100 beneficiaries who are under rough estimates, but of course it is also a matter of making the circle of beneficiaries more precise. Dear Members and Members! In fact, the parental committee was negatively defined by law - the result was 6:6. However, after 56 years, I am convinced that it is also high time for the said circle of beneficiaries to recognise the status of the victim of war violence and to correct this injustice. It is also time to carry out, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, the final drafting of the law on victims of war violence. I therefore suggest that you support the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, which is a competent working body. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? [[He does.]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! At its 3rd regular meeting, on 6.3.2001, the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law proposed in the legislative procedure of the National Assembly by the speaker I'm not going to go down to explain my marriage because it would be very similar to what you've heard. It should be said, however, that the Secretariat, both in its written opinion and in its oral explanation, has pointed out that it supports or also relies on the opinion of the Government, in particular in the part of the positions which point out that in Article 1 of the Basic Law on Victims of War Violence, only a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who has been subjected to violent acts or violent acts by the occupying, aggressor or their associates, in war or military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, may be subjected to violence. It was also appropriate to set up a committee debate, and therefore the vote showed that the appropriateness of the law had been supported by 6 members of the Committee and 6 had also voted against them. So that, after all, the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons adopted a decision, in accordance with Rule 185 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: "The draft law supplementing the law on victims of war violence, the first reading, is not adopted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He does.]] Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! The government rejects the adoption of this law because it is clearly contrary to the intent of the law itself, as stated in article 1 of the law now in force, and says that the victim of war violence is a person who has suffered this violence by the invader or his accomplices. Of course, it is also necessary to respect the plight of people who had to leave their homes for the bombing of allied aircraft or operations in World War II, but as victims of war violence under the current law and within the meaning of this law they do not judge. So the government is proposing to the National Assembly that it does not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	The Committee and the Government therefore have a negative position. What is the position of the parliamentary groups? Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] On behalf of the delegation? Please, Comrade Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Does he wish to present the position of any other group? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the opinion of New Slovenia on the adoption of this amendment to the law on victims of war violence. The constant change in this law indicates that we have not handled well and properly the issue of compensation for war violence, not post-war violence, in Slovenia. Why am I stressing this? Because there is one rule in the civil world about compensation. The compensation is paid by those who caused it. Now let's see how it's arranged for damages in our system. What the occupiers have caused is paid by our country. What caused our revolutionary power, no one pays. Now, however, there is a proposal to impose compensation, i.e. to impose compensation on persons who have suffered aggression or the consequences of the Allied forces. If all the legislators so far had in mind this clear rule, which also applies to countries, we would not have these matters in our possession. The compensation caused by the forces of aggression would be recovered and given to those who actually suffered. In our system it was so that the reparations - so we got something and we used them for different purposes. But they didn't come to those who actually suffered the damage. Sometimes harm cannot be determined precisely or caused on public matters, on goods that are indivisible, are our common. In these cases, the State shall act as the complainant to the person who caused this. This is now this mystery that we have been falling into since the postwar period, and obviously we will also be this millennium. The purpose of the proposalr seems to me to be entirely in place. And in this respect, I would also like to express some support. But of course, in this sense, this is our direction to settle the damages just as the rest of the world does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. Do Members and Members want the word? They don't want to. Then I conclude the general debate and I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall again, because we will vote on the proposed decision of the home labour body, which reads: "The proposal for a law supplementing the law on victims of war violence, the first consideration, is not adopted." So I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall to vote. Only one of our colleagues or colleagues is missing. Please take a look at your colleagues and colleagues, see if anyone accidentally left a card in the voting machine. There are 45 of us in attendance, as the display shows. I suggest we wait a minute or I'll suggest another 10-minute break. We'll wait another minute, or I'll find out that, I think we're done. [[...]] 51 of us are in the hall. Can we be so collegiate that we can insert cards when we are present in the hall? Please! There's 51 of us in the hall. We're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour, 12 against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION PROPOSED BY THE OFFICER OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Procedural? [[...]] My friend Anderlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	Given what we have seen in the last half hour or the last hour, it is impossible to deal with the rules of procedure. Of course, I am not saying this from the point of view, what I would like to see as a proposal is that it is accepted or not, but simply for reasons that for such an important act as the Rules of Procedure, it is only necessary to have a qualified majority and at this point it is not - or it is not ready to be. I suggest we try tomorrow at 10:00 if the quorum is better.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	Only, the qualified majority is present.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	Yeah, yeah. A qualified majority. I just thought that at least two-thirds would be necessary, although I know that 2/3 of the Members present are sufficient to amend the Rules of Procedure. From this point of view, it's not a problem, but at this point, it's 48, but five minutes ago, there were 44, 43, 42, so that's very changing for us, this presence. I suggest we start tomorrow at 10:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u135	So your procedure is to continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. There are 49 Members present, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u136	My procedural proposal is to proceed with this point tomorrow will be 10 a.m., we are not continuing the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u137	Good. We'll continue with this tomorrow at 10 a.m. Of course. 49 Members and Members are present and will decide whether they agree with this procedural proposal. I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 35 were for, 10 were against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 10.]] So we decided to continue this agenda tomorrow at 10 a.m. Probably after deciding on the harmonisation amendment to the media law, which will be prepared by the government by then - if so. The 7th point is not ready, so we're going to move on to 8. Period of the day - Proposal for an Industrial Property Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? We'll wait a minute. The government will join us at any time and will join the debate. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a competent body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Neither do I.]] That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I conclude this debate and move on to decision-making. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed in second reading and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. I put such a proposal to the vote. 49 Members and Members are present. 34 votes in favour, three against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting forward the amendment proposal under order number 1 to Article 11. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I also ask for the maximum attention of colleagues and colleagues, because we will decide on all the amendments proposed in the table. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 37 of them voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We are now voting on the full text of the article. We're voting. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. The text of Article 11 was voted in full by 32 Members and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] Anyone want a word with the amendment to Article 15? [[Nobody.]] Then it's up to us to decide. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 30 Members and Members voted in favour of the amendment under order number 1 and no one opposed it and was therefore adopted. [[The vote was 30.]] [[No one.]] This way we can decide on the text of Article 15 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 36 of them voted in favour, no one opposed. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text is fully adopted. I am opening the debate on Article 36, to which the amendment is tabled under order number 1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. The amendment was voted on by 50 Members present and Members present. The amendment was voted 33, no one opposed. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the full text of Article 36. There are 50 Members and Members present. 29 votes in favour of the text of the Article, and no one objected. [[The vote was 29.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the Article is fully adopted. On page two of our review, we have three amendments tabled to Article 43, and I am opening a debate on them. No one wants a word, so we will vote in turn, first of all, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 35 of them in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under order number two. 51 Members and Members were present, 32 for whom no one opposed the amendment. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] That's why it's been adopted. Finally, we decide on the amendment under order number three. We're voting. There were 51 Members and Members present, 32 for whom no one voted against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] Thus, the third amendment was adopted. We vote on the text of Article 43 in its entirety, as amended. There were 51 Members and Members present, there were 35 votes in full for the article, no one objected. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] This is how the article was adopted. We have an amendment to Article 44. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. There were 51 Members and Members present, 33 votes in favour, none against. The vote was 33.) [[No one.]] This is how we can now vote on Article 44 as a whole. There are 50 Members and Members present, 28 of them in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] The text of Article 44 is adopted. By Article 48, we have an amendment tabled on page two at the end of order number one. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put an amendment to the vote. There were 50 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour of the amendment to Article 48, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 26.]] [[No one.]] That's how he was accepted. We can decide on Article 48 as a whole. There are 50 Members and Members present. For 27, none of them objected. [[The vote was 27.]] [[No one.]] I find that the text of the Article is set. We have one amendment to Article 55. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. There were 34 of them. No one was against them. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 55 in its entirety. There are 50 Members and Members present. There was a full vote of 50 27 for the text, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 27.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 55 is adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 56. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. For the amendment to Article 56, there were 36, against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the text of Article 56 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 28 voted in full for the text of the article, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] We also have one amendment to Article 75. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put it to a vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. In favour of the 31st vote, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The full vote was 24 for the article, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 24.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment review on the third page of Article 120. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the amendment to the 120th Article to the vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. The amendment to Article 120 was voted on by 28 Members and Members. No one objected to him. [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. 51 Members and Members of Parliament are present. 30 of them voted in full for the article. No one was against it. [[The vote was 30.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 121. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. 27 of them voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 27.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put the whole article to the vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. Article 26 was voted in full, no one opposed. [[The vote was 26.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have an amendment, a last amendment, to Article 123. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. 29 votes in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 29.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. 25 voted in favour, none against the article. [[The vote was 25.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Two amendments have been tabled in the last article to which amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u138	I propose that the National Assembly does not support any of these amendments, namely: The Law of Justice provides that the representative of the parties to disputes before a court may only be a lawyer. Thus, the provision of the Law of Justice is due to the fact that lawyers have acquired the right of representation of the parties under the prescribed procedure, and to the fact that lawyers are bound by the rules and lay down the legal professions, that lawyers are disciplinaryly responsible for their work and, last but not least, that lawyers have their professional responsibility secured, which is not regulated by all the patent agents provided for in the fourth paragraph to be represented by the parties before the court. It is worth noting that legal persons referred to in Article 131 of the Law can only be capital companies which are limitedly responsible, but legal firms, where they are established, can only be set up as companies with unlimited liability. Such an arrangement would therefore unnecessarily interfere with the uniform representation before the courts, so I propose that we do not support these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you, colleague Majnik. Anyone else want a word? I find no one, and I conclude the debate. Excuse me? The government? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Andrej Piano, from the Intellectual Property Office.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to adopt both amendments. These amendments seek to regulate the situation of patent agents who are, by majority, illegal and need to know, in order to represent the intellectual property office, the material of industrial property, which includes patent law, the law of trademarks and the law of models, as well as geographical indications, and who are most called to lead the proceedings and, on the other hand, cannot request, have difficulties in representation in court, as there are certain problems in relation to the requirements of the new legal procedure. The basic amendment, tabled by patent representatives, now follows the applicable copyright legislation, which also allows certain other persons to be represented in copyright courts in addition to lawyers. The government amendment alone - which is on this basic amendment - however, of course, only requires that changes to the law on fair procedure be taken into account. The adoption of both amendments would, however, ensure the correctness of the legal system and also allow patent representatives to represent themselves before a court and also to have the right to a prize. Of course, the question may be asked whether this should be addressed by a specific law, such as in some countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I don't see anyone. This is how we move on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 49 colleagues were present and 18 were voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 19.]] We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There were 49 colleagues and colleagues present, 23 votes in favour of the amendment under order number two, 16 against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment got the required majority. Thus, we are still voting on the text of Article 131 in its entirety. There were 49 colleagues and colleagues present, 21 of whom voted in full for the text of Article 131 and 12 against it. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 12.]] We have discussed the amendments tabled and are moving on to the discussion on the remaining articles to which they have not been tabled. Anybody want a word about them? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the remaining articles. There were 49, 26 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting the bill's title to the vote. 49 Members and Members are present. 33 of us voted in favour of the bill's title, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Would qualified candidates like to table an amendment? My colleague Majnik. Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u142	We will table an amendment for the third reading for Article 131.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u143	Does anyone want to discuss the whole law? [[Nobody.]] Then I will break this point in this, so that you can table an amendment and we will make a full decision about it and the law. That's how we break this point and move on to 9. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the Obligations of the Institute for Compulsory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We'll wait for you to join us. [[...]] Here you go, Dr. Pirkmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u144	Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its derivatives, which the Government proposes for adoption following a rapid procedure. Slovenia has made a commitment in the process of approaching the European Union to increase the mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives to 90-day average consumption in relation to consumption in the previous year. This is why a special institution for mandatory oil reserves and petroleum derivatives established in Ljubljana is established. And according to the work programme of this institution, it is envisaged that a total reserve of 558,000 tonnes will be established after the years 2000 to 2005. The dynamics are shown in the table, which is also an integral part of this law. The whole plan requires funds for which the basic banks will borrow EUR 268 million, 450 000 equivalent to any currency, converted into tolars after the Bank of Slovenia’s average exchange rate. The law proposes that the State provide a guarantee, a guarantee for this loan under the following conditions: that the maturity of the loans is no more than 10 years, a moratorium on repayment of the principal for at least one year, and that the interest rate and the cost of the loans must not deviate substantially from the interest rate and the cost of comparable loans with the State guarantee and that the guarantee obligation of the Republic of Slovenia must be adequately secured. In this case, it is appropriate to provide insurance in that the institution will have reserves, so reserves in goods, which - of course, if sold - are sufficient for the loan to be paid as well. Then there are two more articles. The third gives the mandate to the Minister responsible for Finance to conclude the guarantee contract on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and the fourth provides that the law shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. There was a broad debate on the bill in the Committee on the Economy and I am sure that the arguments for the adoption of the law are strong enough, as they have also been confirmed by the Committee on the Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was examined by the Committee on the Economy, which is the competent body. Mr. Pohorec, Vice-President of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Report of the Committee on Economics of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia on the obligations of the Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. At its 7th regular meeting, on 12.4., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal of the guarantee law as a parent working body, as it appears that it would not take all the time to read and waste, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed for consideration and adoption after a rapid procedure. Representatives of the proposer and the secretariat for legislation were also present. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the law submitted should be dealt with in a rapid manner due to the emergency needs of the State. Ensuring security of supply through mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives is a project of national importance. In addition, Slovenia, in negotiations with the European Union, committed itself to providing the required reserves by 2005. It is therefore necessary to take immediate action towards the creation of these reserves, because it is a project that is both financially and technically very demanding. This year and next year, they are determined to create mandatory reserves, as under the mandatory oil reserves programme and its derivatives, oil derivatives will need to be purchased at a level corresponding to the 60-day average consumption in the previous year. The adoption of the law submitted is so urgently necessary that the Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives, under the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, will be able to rent appropriate credits and tender for the purchase of petroleum derivatives as soon as possible. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in its opinion, found that the proposal for a law was, in a formal sense, correct and in line with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, in substance, the introductory presentation of the bill was lacking, in particular with regard to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as well as the price of the financial and other consequences. The Secretariat also notes that the proposed solutions are partially inconsistent. The Secretariat shall draw attention to the provisions of the Law on Trade Reserves which provide that the creation of reserves of oil and its derivatives is ensured as a special economic service financed by a specific remuneration for its enforcement paid by its users as a compulsory membership fee. The Goods Reserves Act also explicitly provides that membership funds are intended for both the provision of reserves of military capacity and the necessary quantities of oil and petroleum derivatives. As regards the funds collected from that membership, however, the Secretariat considers that there is some confusion in the explanation of the bill. The reasons for the adoption of the proposal for a law state that these funds will be used to cover the costs of repayments of loans already paid, storage and other costs and that the purchase of oil and its derivatives should be financed by borrowing loans from commercial banks. However, in the context of the financial implications, it is stated that funds will also be made available from these funds to repay the loans paid. In the opinion of the secretariat, the proposaler's statement that the adoption of the law will not directly burden the state budget is not clear. The secretariat points out that the financial implications of the draft law as well as the text of Article 1 should be complemented, in particular in relation to the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2001, which sets out, inter alia, the extent of the State guarantees issued for the loans of domestic legal persons this year. The text of Article 1 should be supplemented by an indication of the level of the principal in the tolars to which the scope of the State’s guarantees for each year should be charged by the adoption of the law in question or by providing for a second appropriate reference to the annual guarantee quota. The Secretariat has also drawn up a comment on Article 2 on the opinion that the ceiling of the interest rate and the costs of the loans envisaged should be clarified in the third indent of paragraph 1. The representative of the applicant presented in the introduction the basic reasons for the adoption of the proposed law, as well as its principles, objectives and fundamental solutions, with some clarifications concerning the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. He stressed that the proposed law was part of the legislation to be adopted in the process of bringing Slovenia closer to the European Union. The proposed law will make it possible to implement the Republic of Slovenia's commitment under the Association Agreement, namely the obligation to provide 90 daily oil reserves and its derivatives by 2005. In this regard, a mandatory oil reserves and derivatives programme has already been adopted, which provides for Slovenia to provide 558,000 tonnes of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives by 2005. The implementation of this programme is currently taking place normally, as current costs under the Law on Trade Reserves are borne by the oil market participants who pay the mandatory membership fee. In order to implement this programme, the Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives will need to rent loans of EUR 268,000 million, EUR 450,000. They will borrow in different currencies, including in tolars. It is estimated that the funds collected from the compulsory membership fee should be sufficient to repay the loans that the institution will rent. The purpose of the proposed law is thus to enable the institution to rent loans under as favourable conditions as possible with the guarantee of the State. With regard to the comments made by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters to the third indent of Article 2(1), he stressed that the drafter of the law did not intentionally define the upper limit of the interest rate in the text of this Article. In addition, because it is likely to change, the proposer would not want to give any information in advance on the interest rate to potential lenders. The representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs also orally explained the secretariat's written opinion, pointing in particular to the fact that the Law on Trade Reserves provides for one single way of financing the development and provision of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives, namely by providing these reserves with funds collected with a specific compensation for the execution of an economic public service. He also asked the representative whether the statement in explanation of the bill's proposal that the law in question would not directly burden the State budget was genuine, in conjunction with certain proposals of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2001. The wording of Article 1 is thus somewhat vague, since it does not fully reflect the projected financial dynamics between 2001 and 2005 in view of the burden on the extent of the country's guarantees for each year. They also point out the explanation by the representative of the applicant that there is still an open comment regarding a clearer definition of the upper limit on the cost of loans. In the context of the general debate, the members of the Committee paid considerable attention to the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law or its basic objectives, objectives and proposed solutions, particularly in view of the lack of explanation of the text presented. Initially, the issue of the need to adopt the law submitted in the light of the rapid procedure was raised and the view was expressed that the proposed treatment procedure was insufficiently justified as it referred only to the exceptional needs of the State. The representative of the applicant explained that the proposed procedure, in addition to the reasons set out in the draft law, was also needed because its adoption would allow the institution to accept a State guarantee on the basis of which loans would be made after the Ministry of Finance's calculation of savings of EUR 3-4 billion. In addition, the Institute must provide 14 billion tolls this year for the purchase of oil derivatives, and the regular procedure for the adoption of the proposed law would be too long to allow the institution to carry out all the necessary procedures. In this regard, he also clarified the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, who pointed out that, from the point of view of the Secretariat, the proposal for the consideration of the draft law was sufficiently substantiated in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the debate, most discussers drew attention to a lack of explanation of the bill's proposal, which does not contain all relevant information that would facilitate the decision-making of members of the Committee and also contains some errors in the tables, as part of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the implementation of the law. Errors should be corrected, and they are now over.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u147	Mr Vice-President, colleague Pohorec, would you like to read the full report before us?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u148	I'd only read the ending because it's a really long report. In fact, we had another session and there was an additional explanation. From the first report, only the following. The representatives of the proposer announced that by Tuesday 17 April they would have completed the explanation of this law and also corrected the mistakes they had made, and so at the next meeting we adopted additional conclusions and an additional report and a final decision to be given to the national assembly. The Committee on the Economy's decision supports - that is, the Economic Committee supports the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee law for the obligations of the Institute for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its derivatives and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt it in accordance with the proposed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your kindness. I'm asking the secretariat to make some comments. [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Now I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we're going to make a decision. I therefore give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. I therefore conclude the general debate. We're moving to second reading. So there are no amendments, but there are four articles. We will therefore decide from article to article on the entire content of the proposed law. Of course, there must be enough of us in the hall to make decisions. I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we will decide on the articles. We therefore decide on Article 1. I'm putting him to the vote. Please, if you place your cards - everyone who is present. We vote on the text of Article 1. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. 21 Members and Members voted against for the text of Article 1 of the bill. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of Article 1 is adopted. We vote on the text of Article 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. For the text of Article 2, 27 votes against, 1 against. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of Article 1 is adopted. We vote on the text of Article 3. Presence! Please, I'm warning my colleagues to check to see if any of their neighbors might have a card filed by mistake. May I have your attention, please? I invite one of my colleagues and colleagues to join us so that we can conclude and adopt this law in full. We'll wait a minute and then we'll get back to work. Look, all we have left to do today is decide on the harmonisation amendment of the media law, the text of the amendment and the decision on the law of colleague Majnikov. Tomorrow we'll move on to Point 10. So if we decided on these three issues in a short time now, we could end up early today because tomorrow we will continue with the 10th point. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are in the National Assembly to come to the Assembly Hall so that we can conclude this and the other points today; this way we can conclude the part of today's session prematurely, and tomorrow we will give full attention or full attention to the Rules of Procedure and thus end the session. Please place your cards. I also ask other colleagues and colleagues who are not yet in the hall to join us so that we can work. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 23 votes in favour of the text of Article 3, one opposed it. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Finally, we are voting on the text of Article 4. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. The text of Article 4 was voted 26, none against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[No one.]] I note that this article has also been adopted. Anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the title of the law to a vote. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. Thirty-three for it, no one's against it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We're in third reading, colleagues and colleagues. No amendments have been tabled. I'm opening a general debate on the law. Anybody want a word? The law is harmonised, I'm asking the secretariat. [[Yes, it ……]] So we can make a full decision about the law? Yes, you can. I am putting the law to a full vote. There were 46 colleagues and colleagues present, 34 voted in full for the law, and no one objected. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Thus, we have also concluded with the adoption of this law on this agenda. I ask the National Assembly, does it object that, given the government's presence and the necessary quorum, we move to point 5b to complete it? This is a vote on the harmonisation amendments to the media law. I don't see a contract. I therefore propose that we return to Point 5.B, to the harmonisation amendments to the Media Law Proposal. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that, due to the amendments adopted, mutual compliance with the provisions of the law has been violated, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled the harmonisation amendments. Your texts are on the table. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Neither does the representative of the secretariat. Representative of the parent's working body? I guess not. There is no discussion on the content, so we will vote unless representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on this, on each individual, but of course we must be present in the necessary quorum. So again, I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come into the hall, because we are going to vote on this. We will vote by deciding on the harmonisation amendments to the individual article and eventually on the law as a whole. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are close to the hall - I know this - to enter the hall and we can get this law under a safe roof. Please ask colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, we will decide on the harmonisation amendments to the media law. We vote first on the amendment to Article 93. We vote on the amendment to Article 93. There were 46 Members and Members present; they voted against 32, 2 in favour of the amendment to 93. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against two.]] That's how the amendment was adopted. We vote on the amendment to Article 111. There were 48 colleagues and colleagues present, 29 against and 2 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment to article 131, which I put to the vote. 49 Members and Members are present. Thirty-one of them voted in favour of the amendment, and two opposed it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against two.]] Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a media law in its entirety. We're voting. Please. I am terminating the vote because my colleague Pece wanted to explain his vote. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you. It is not in the sense of prolonging the debate that I hope it will be or that it is now in the final stage. But I raised my hand in time and you're busy. [[...]] In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the content of this novel, which is included in the debate, can be combined into three basic concepts: control, punishment and threat. In short, the law goes in a completely different direction, as originally presented; presented to us Members, and presented to the Slovenian public, if this is one of the many steps required to enter and adapt to European legislation. It has been said that this is part of harmonisation, but there are different views here, there are different opinions; unfortunately, the opinions of the professions here are different from those of government parties who still strongly claim that this is an urgent process. That's not true, but you'll all make that decision by pressing one of these two keys. We just wanted to say to the end that the government will require the new law to be informed by the newspapers about what their editorial policy will be. And we don't think that's the norm that can guide us into those integrations that we describe as developed integration. In short, we are returning - in our opinion - to that period of State propaganda that has perpetrated violence against the media. This violence will appear primarily in control and punishment. I suggest that all those who want the media to act independently do not support this law and leave them with the power to regulate their editorial policy and to fill their own, say, media space independently of the political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The Group of Members will vote against the adoption of this law. In our view, some changes were needed in this law, but the result of the vote and the hearing at this meeting led to some entirely different solutions and thus destroyed many good objectives of the proposer. For the Group of Members, two main objectives were to provide an independent, diverse, plural space and a competitive media space. And the second goal is to incorporate a development component into this law. We find that both objectives are essentially completely eliminated, because the control function of the media - in fact it is not. The law incorporates the possibility of appointing political officials to the fullest extent possible ensuring political subjectivity and thus systematic bias, which is an unacceptable intervention in the constitutional rights of the public to correct, fair, comprehensive and diversified information. The law thus ensures that certain political options are permanently favoured. The law also fully preserves the monopolistic position in the field of distribution, which is in total contravention of Article 11 of the Competition Protection Act, which makes it possible to further prevent the distribution of printed media and thus affect their effectiveness. Local and regional printed media are fully devalued and play an important role as executive and public interest enforcement in smaller and rounded areas. These solutions therefore completely eliminate the independent and supervisory function of the media. Moreover, the media are transforming to the fullest extent possible into a tool of power. It is similar to another, this is with a developmental function, with the development task of a law that deals exceptionally with the media and does not provide an opportunity for a balanced and equitable development of the entire media space. The Media Fund only supports the development of certain owners and performers in selected areas, while it completely excludes others. Also, this fund is extremely unevenly full and is burdened only by some. Therefore, because both important sets, in our view, are wrongly and unfairly regulated, we will vote in the parliamentary group against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. That's right. I want to explain my voice. In fact, all I would say is that I explained and explained certain solutions during the examination at the outset, so I would not repeat them. I think a fellow Member, Mr Tanko, has said those key things. I would just say that we missed the opportunity offered to normalize the media space in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we'll just go the same way forward or even back a little bit. That is why I will also decide against the adoption of this law, or I have decided not to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The law was - in Slovenia we were one of the first member states to have prepared a draft in accordance with the criteria and guidelines given to us by Europe. At the same time: we were the first in this area to be coherent, exemplary, I can even say that, and consistent. Of course, at this point, after three years of disagreement, which also meant some strange Kafkayan path of this marriage, we are almost the last. All the countries, other countries, which, later than we began to face the issue of media policy in general, had, I will admit, a thorny and rather unpleasant path, but not so much in the field of discussion within the profession as in Parliament. If we voted so unanimously today against the interests that were not entirely - partial or not - guaranteed through this law, we would, of course, reopen and certainly not close the negotiating venues for which we promised they would be concluded two years ago. In this sense, even if there is dissatisfaction with the solutions that have occurred along this path, it is true - I will not say to swallow these discontents, but to work towards making those other mistakes that have been, I will admit, adopted here yesterday, were secondly corrected. The path went through consolidation of those solutions that the Slovenian public had to refer to slowly. There is neither a single word of this law nor a single article nor a single dictatorship restricts the fundamental right to free autonomous information to anyone in public or in any other interest. There has certainly been a major complication with the addition of Article 82, which I suppose will lead to the government in particular - not to talk about the public establishment of RTV Slovenia - a major problem; not even because of the percentage itself, because I suppose the government will want to provide it in a different way, that is to say, with greater taxation of viewers and viewers, but because of the lack of consistency of the diction itself, which does not define what is actually supported by this proportion. That is to say, which are those local, regional programmes, whether they are all on average, or whether they have certain advantages, by what rules this is done. Not to mention the second paragraph, which speaks of the fact that the country in the budget is not forced, but is obliged to finance the development of technical infrastructure for the dissemination of electronic issuers, regardless of the fact that it is already the law on RTV Slovenia, when it deals with transmitters and links within its own corps. I say: if it has been necessary for many years to apply to the fact that we have citizens and citizens the right to the truth, the right to correction and the answer is also true; if it is legal within this law to the right to retain or not to issue a source of information; if the greatest dilemmas of ownership have been clarified - not only domestic owners, I will say Slovenians, and not only Europeans, but also foreign ones - is fully said; if it is liberalised in full, I will say the market, in this sense; if there is a definition between the separation between public and private interest; if the role of editorial activity has been defined, the protection of journalists - not in the sense that it was initially offered, in the sense, I will say the best possible solutions, with the granting of status and their protection; if the policy of the media space in Slovenia has been fully defined, the protection of journalists - not in the sense that it was offered, in the sense that it would be offered, in the best possible to say, in the best possible solutions, in the best possible, by the granting of the granting of the State of almost five, that it is a great law, that the adoption of the law, that Slovenia - if the law - if the law is fully defined by the law - the law - the right of the law - the law - the law - the right of Slovenia - the law - the right of the law - the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the country and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 32 to 12. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much to the representative of the government. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION OF PLANTS, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives are on their way, so I suggest to the assembly that we wait a moment. I welcome representatives of the government in our midst. You want a word? Here you go. Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u158	Dear Members and honourable Members, good afternoon! Well-welcome on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is unfortunately not with you right now and I will try to replace him. So, before you is the Plant Health Act. Otherwise, this area in the Republic of Slovenia is currently governed by two laws, one from 1994, this is a plant health law, and this law is related to the forest law. With the issuance of the new law before you, we will address the shortcomings of non-compliance with the acquis of the European Union; liaison with forest protection operators and the organisation of the State Plant Protection Service will be regulated in a manner comparable to that of the European Union system. Under this law, the Directorate of Plant Protection and Seminary of the Republic of Slovenia will be established, which will act as a body within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The management will be the central responsible plant health authority in the country, for the coordination and exchange of information between authorities and public service providers and for reporting and for contacts with the European Union. If I give very briefly what the new law provides for in the field of the European Union: a list of harmful organisms, plants and plant products, a system of registration of producers, processors, importers and distributors of certain plant species and plant products, a system of issuing plant passports, the implementation of the concept of protected areas and the establishment of specific measures relating to regulated harmful organisms. Dear congregation, we ask that you pass the Plant Health Act on a rapid basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice President, Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. A respected choir! For quite some time, the Committee has dealt with a law that is extremely professional. That is also why amendments are prepared to supplement the text of the law. It's mostly government amendments; the committee itself has designed, I think, three. We propose that the National Assembly address the content of the second reading and adopt the amendments of the Government and the Committee, since the Committee has also supported all government amendments. We have subsequently received an amendment from a fellow Member who has not been dealt with by the Committee; for that, the National Assembly will be defined as being defined. We therefore propose that the assembly adopt the amendments of the Government and the Committee and finally draw up a decision on the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Yeah.]] First Mr Franz Sušnik on behalf of the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and then on behalf of the Group of Members of Nova Slovenija, Mr Alojz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u162	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We support the implementation and adoption of the plant health law in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We fully agree with these reasons and objectives for the adoption of this law. In particular, we attach to the view that this law allows the enforcement of the acquis in the field of the implementation of tasks and obligations and the regulation of the area of quarantine and other pests in agriculture and forestry. In particular, we would like to point out and agree that the area of protection and health care for plants and plant products is being exposed, and thus indirectly to the interests of the users of plant products. The regulation of the acquis or the adoption of the acquis of the European Union in the field of plant health will, in our opinion, no doubt add to the burden on our agricultural processors, which we note in particular. This is, last but not least, evident from the indications in the very explanation of the law where Chapter 6.2 literally states that the costs of entering the register and obtaining an authorisation to issue the plant passports are borne by the applicants of the application. The issue of a decision to register and issue a licence for plant passports - shall be issued, normally, in administrative proceedings and shall be paid under the administrative procedure law again at the burden of the investor or agricultural producer or farmer. Authorisations for bio-protection of plants shall also be subject to the same regime. Finally, the costs of courses for those responsible for the issue of plant passports are borne by the trainees themselves. This also applies to phytosanitary certificates, and this is, in our opinion, in addition to the already established veterinary law - the implementation of the plant health law means an additional heavy burden on agriculture as one of the essential elements of maintaining rural population. We wonder how much here is also taken into account the intent of the law on coherent regional development or, how to mitigate, how to mitigate the financial consequences resulting from the implementation of this law. We therefore appeal to the government and the competent ministry to examine the actual comprehensive financial burden that will arise with the implementation of this law. While something is written in the bill itself as the revenue of the budget, on the other hand it is a cost to our producers. We fear that the application of this law will further exacerbate the already difficult agricultural situation. We therefore expect the government to prepare appropriate counter-measures. In particular, I would like to point out - in this regard, the debate on the committee responsible also went to Article 59, on the chapter "Indemnifications". Here we fully support the Committee's amendment to Article 59, namely that, in determining that they are up to compensation, if the competent inspector orders the destruction or any other removal of plants and plant products under this Act - we advocate a solution that takes account of all beneficiaries or we support the amendment of the Committee in order to delete a provision that only includes those to whom this branch of production is the main source of survival. This can be illustrated by the example of hops or vertical or intentional weariness. We well know that in the field of hops two - three - hectare production still does not constitute the main source of survival, but that the implementation of an inspection measure on two or three hectares represents a huge cost for the farmer and would cause great damage to individual growers or a reduction in compliance with the amendment of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u164	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture! On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to point out that this is an extremely important law. This is a new regulation in the field of plant health. As has already been said, plant protection against diseases and pests is introduced in this law, then the establishment of a register of plant material growers, in accordance with this law a plant passport is introduced, then protected areas and a list of harmful organisms that may affect plant species are regulated, and the organisation of public services in the field of plant health is defined. However, despite such an important law, I must say that it is likely that, due to the speedy process of enacting this law, this law has actually experienced little or no debate in the public eye; nor has it been much on the Committee on Agriculture, although it has been said here by the Vice-President that the Committee on Agriculture has worked extensively and for a long time. So that's not how I felt as a member of this committee. Previously, I had the feeling that, because of the lack of knowledge of the members of the committee, the law was somehow released through the committee by means of a rapid procedure, and in this way it will also go - I am sure - through this national assembly. It seems to me that you do not have the lists of plants, plant products and controlled items referred to in Article 8 of this Act as a fundamental flaw in the adoption of this law. This is how we adopt a law, the consequences of which, I must say, we do not know or know them. Look. Article 8 states which plant lists are required for both imports and for the determination of protected areas for which plant lists are required by phytosanitary certificates and Article 8 fourth or fifth indent states: the VAI list relating to the plant passport. At this point, we do not know what are the plant species for which it will be necessary to issue a plant passport on the market. I got this package of papers myself 10 minutes ago where all these lists were published. However, because the names of plant species are in Latin, of course I can't translate them, I don't know what plant species they are, some are, some I know, but most of them aren't. So at this point, I would like to hear from the representatives of the proposer whether - because this law regulates that according to the new producers of plant materials, planting material will have to be entered in the register, that they will be able to obtain permission, that they will have to obtain a decision, that they will have to give plants to produce, and that they will have to have plant passports issued for plants. I ask the government representatives whether, under this law, defences on the market will continue to sell tomatoes, whether they can continue to sell, I don't know, onions. For example, for our area, this is extremely important. By producing with us people as a complementary activity, I can say that it has been possible for 300 or 400 years. I wonder if, after the adoption of this law, our farmers will be able to carry out this activity further, whether they will have to register and obtain all these permits, all these papers. If so, then I can say that this activity, as such, will die as a complete and complementary activity on farms. The other thing that we find questionable in this law in the parliamentary group is the disagreement between certain articles in this law. See, Article 42 says that the bondholders, these plant growers of the plant material, issue plant passports. Article 61 then states that the issuing of plant passports is the responsibility of public service providers. Article 68 states that the issue of plant passports is not a public service. Here I would ask you to compare these three articles and see if there is actually a discrepancy between these articles. I would also like to say that the Law on the Health of Plants for Treatment in the National Assembly has already been prepared by the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, and that the government of Drnovšek has withdrawn the previous proposal from the procedure and replaced it with its proposal for a law so that this second proposal is much more bureaucratic and further burdens this area with certain legal procedures. Such bureaucratic articles, which were not included in the previous draft law, are the additions in Articles 10, 12, 16, 20, 36, 38, 43, 66, 91, 93. I ask the proponents whether it is really necessary to add and add to the anti-biocratic programme that you have entered into the coalition contract and, in addition, to impose additional administrative measures on the agricultural sector, which is the case, as we have heard many times in this National Assembly, in an extremely difficult situation, and as such it will be difficult to adapt to all European Community standards. We also find it questionable that the government which has put its proposal into the procedure has, without any discussion, amended this same proposal with 31 amendments, with 32 articles out of 102 or 98 ending so that the proposer will have to draw up sub-legislative acts. So that's an extra load, too. A number of these could be written in this law with one or two sentences and there would be no need to issue submarital acts. To conclude, we propose that today only the first reading of this law should be carried out so that, until the second reading, all Members and Members will have these prepared rules and lists so that they will know what we are talking about and not adopt the law like this, I would say, ad hoc, in mind. I therefore propose that these lists be made available to all Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Because no Group of Members would you like to present the opinion of the Group of Members? [[...]] Mr. Franci Rokavec, please. Opinion of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a plant health law. This is an explicit professional law that deals mainly with the field of plant health and the law which needs to be aligned with the provisions of the acquis of the European Union. Of course, we also share in some of the concerns that have been expressed so far. As this is a matter of explicit professional law and because this has not been given much attention in the consideration of the whole law, a number of issues still arise, particularly as regards the scope of the capture of registers. In other words, who will be included in the register of producers, processors, importers, distributors, plant products as well as plants and other controlled objects? Indeed, following possible assessments so far of the draft regulations that we have received from the members of the Agriculture Committee, it can be concluded that almost all processors will be covered. The question is, what will be the extent of the determination in the regulations relating to so-called gardeners, which in some ways will actually produce food only for their own purposes. It also raises the question of how much production should be in the so-called local sector, the local area. Therefore, the question is actually raised that, before the final decision, including the amendments tabled, it would be reasonable to obtain some additional clarifications, at least on some of the issues I have just mentioned. Of course, it is also a question of the speed of the establishment of the register. The basic proposal is that this should be established within one year. Because in some areas, particularly in the area of agriculture, which is still quite sensitive to the entry into the European Union and to the implementation of certain such rapid rules that the State of Slovenia must implement at this time, we can testify that the deadlines laid down are not feasible and that this is why a number of issues, namely, the establishment of passports in the field of livestock, have been delayed for a period of four months. In doing so, I am asked whether it will be possible to establish a register within one year or even within six months, as is now proposed, while it is defined in Article 96 of the Law, that the deadline for the establishment of all sub-legislative rules is two years. On the basis of this, it would be reasonable to consider whether it would not make sense for the national assembly or Members and Members to take some time before deciding on the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Since the Group of Members no longer wishes to present its opinions, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. On behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Okay. No one has applied in writing either, so I give the floor to Members and Members for a debate within five minutes. Mr. Geza Juban, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'll try to discuss it this way so it won't look like a replica of a colleague of Sok. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have been dealing with this law for some time now, because even from some discussions here it is obvious that this law has been born much earlier. In the meantime, the text was complemented by the Government of Drnovsko in Bajukovo and back in Drnovškovo, with the fact that the expert group that prepared this law was almost exactly the same. Neither Bajuk nor Drnovšek dictated the contents of the law, but as the expert group has judged and such a text we have before us, including amendments, mainly with amendments to the government and, of course, with minor amendments to the committee, because it was necessary because the circumstances on the committee so dictated. It is true that marriage brings additional strains that concern many people - including me. However, the situation is very similar at this point in Slovenia, where we are dealing with the risk of introduction of infectious diseases that cause disaster in Europe. This matter can be fully reflected in certain plant species, and this law has been created as a result. Of course, whether we want or need to establish, under directives that are increasingly sharp every day, or ours or the European Union, a sharp control system that draws administration behind us. I still admit that bureaucracy often gives birth to new bureaucracy. However, since we have all found that this is a matter of professional law, it is difficult for us here in Parliament, including on the committee, to judge how far this bureaucracy can go. That is why we have ruled on the basis, including support for government amendments, that we have before us the text of the law as we have it. The annex, which is even more professional because it covers a large number of Latin names, etc., is, I think, material that is so much harder and, dear colleagues, without offense, I do not think it belongs to this Parliament. In order for Members to decide whether a plant species or disease would be a plant species - or if they were to be able to translate them into Latin themselves, but I think it would be pointless - to decide whether or not it would be in this supplementary list or whether this law would be changed because of that and that, in one way or another, I think it would be unusual. For those of you who are in charge of this area, it is not true that this annex is two days old. On 13 April 2001, the expert service of the Committee on Agriculture informed all parliamentary groups or members of the Committee that this Annex was available and could be obtained and used for any comments on the solutions in the law. This means that we have before us material that has content that can significantly regulate the transport of plants, plant species and their parts, seeds and so on, that a new bureaucratic part is really being introduced, which is the plant protection administration, with its powers, responsibilities, such as, say, a state centre or similar for the control of infectious diseases, which has a lot to do every day, despite all that we regret, whether control of infectious diseases should lead the state centre or anyone else who does not want to mention it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I also don't know all the background of this marriage, not at all. However, I imagine that this law introduces planting material into certain restrictions. I would suggest that those activities where planting material is produced would represent some complementary activity on the farm, in order to actually exempt them from this and leave them as they have worked so far, because otherwise they will cease. I'll give you an example from our area. The area I come from is known for making onions. Today they are trying to revive this activity as an agricultural sector. Just as they may have started 300 years ago, they are now growing onions in extensive production and this seed onion for further cultivation. This may seem insignificant to most people, but for those who will be specifically affected by this law, this matter is very important. You can see at one of the local markets what it looks like. I can't imagine, and when I look at these lists, and because I know so much Latin terms, I can see that on these lists, which will require the issuance of a plant passport in the future, there is also an alium-tip polyneo plant. So this is what I'm talking about. I personally believe that this law should exempt those producers and such production from this, because otherwise it will fail. I am very sorry that in this House it is interesting to discuss what I know about the media law and so on, everyone is here and everyone is discussing it. But when we come to an area which is, I would say, a minority in our country is important, but it hardly seems important to discuss and listen to the debates of other Members. I'll repeat my proposal. I propose that we proceed with the first hearing today, but that the second and third readings of this law should be carried out on a regular basis and thus give the possibility of a wider debate on this law, since it has not been discussed in practice so far. So far, there has been no broader debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, this is your group's proposal. I ask you kindly if you can give it to us in writing so that after the general discussion we can vote on your proposal. Would government representatives like to provide an explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u172	I would like to begin by thanking all Members and Members of Parliament who have given some attention to this law. It is indeed a very professional law that has been created over a very long period, and it is indeed irrelevant who was then Prime Minister because it was an expert group that worked and which was also educated in Brussels. The main purpose of this law is to protect plants in a healthy manner, while following the guidelines of the European Union. I would say in a very general way that the law is consistent with the profession. This has also been demonstrated on the parental committee, which means that all those experts who are doing this in colleges, in professional institutions, in local institutions, in institutions, in societies, in the agri-majority chamber, agree with such a text of the law. That's why we think that the marriage is good. In general, I would like to respond to those Members, especially Mr Sok, who debated the content of the Rules. That's right. This Regulation, which you have received on the Committee, is already ready and can be seen what it will contain, regardless of the fact that it is a sub-legal act. At the moment, the Slovenian acquis allows the regulation to be adopted after the law has been enacted and the regulation is not an act to be discussed by the national assembly. However, if the individual wishes of Members are to receive this rule, as we have already said, it is available in the professional services of the Home Committee and we are also prepared from the Ministry to provide it to you in particular. I would say, however, that this is a law which means, as we would like to say, a condition for the release of the internal market at the moment we are in the European Union, which does not mean that certain restrictions will be legalised for Slovenian farmers. Because, on the other hand, this means that if this law is adopted when we are in the European Union, we will also have an open market in the European Union and in the European Union. That's why we call it European law. I would ask you now that my colleague, who is an expert co-worker, and has cooperated with the Ministry all the time, to comment on individual articles of the law and to try to answer your questions. Of course, even after the meeting of this committee, our experts are available to you because we are really glad that you are paying attention to this professional law. On the other hand, we would like to explain to you what we meant by a certain article of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain to Mr. Sok? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It appears from the discussion that the most problems or problems in understanding or questions relate to the register of manufacturers and the issue of plant passports. Let me say that the register envisaged for plant health will be based on an already existing register that has been in existence in Slovenia for at least 20 years, based on a law on hay orchards covering producers and suppliers, and seedlings, agricultural and forest plants. This means that according to our information, there are currently about 700 producers or individuals in this register. According to predictions or new requirements, farmers, such as growers, growers of certain species, not all of them, and certain ornamental plants, as we predict, will also be included in the register, for example, the number of about 900 people. This means that the entire register is supposed to be about 1500. Given that we are already based on existing registers and will take into account the existing information system at the Ministry, which has already covered all the data of those who have applied for subsidies, we do not expect any major problems from this point of view. We therefore believe that the proposed deadline of one year for entry into the register is realistic. In addition, as can be seen from the law, exceptions to this registration are also allowed. It goes primarily, as you mentioned, for people who sell on markets, so these people will be able to continue to produce and actually sell and they will not have to be registered if the place of their production or what they produce and sell on the market is within a radius of about 15 to 20 kilometers. This, I would say, is not yet the size of the local market. This is a proposal that has also been made in accordance with the consultations of European experts who have assisted in the formation of this law and has been given in the light of their experience of this proposal. As far as the issue of plant passports is concerned, let me say that the matter is not new for Slovenia, only the name is new. Already now, for consignments within Slovenia, there is the issue of a so-called health certificate for consignments of plants in inland transport issued by phytosanitary inspectors. Let me say that, in order to adapt to the European Union, this system is stricter than it is in the European Union, meaning that we are essentially going with some criteria, so that we are slightly mitigated by adapting ourselves to the European Union, which means that plant passports will in essence be issued by plant health providers, while the possibility or facilitation is given that they can also be issued by the growers themselves, they will meet certain minimum conditions that they are qualified for this activity. As with the register itself, the issue of a plant passport will also be subject to exemptions, which are more detailed in the sub-legislative regulation, which was also available for inspection and availability. So much for this, I would say, a professional explanation as to the register and the issuance of passports. We believe that in fact the law has been in existence for quite some time, and it has also been created with the cooperation of two European experts who have in practice brought us closer to what the implementation of the directives looks like. For this reason, we believe that the proposal is in fact in line with the European Union and is also feasible in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Now the secretary has answered, I'd say, some of my dilemmas and questions, because it just doesn't come out of the law as such. So she said that this law would require an additional entry into the register for about 900 gardeners. I suppose it goes - because this number is pretty high - for those small gardeners who don't deal with gardening as a basic activity, but that means something extra to them, I would say, a complementary activity on their farm. He also says that there is a law or regulation in preparation that allows these to be exempted if they sell seedlings within a radius of 15 to 20 kilometers. That radio is nothing! For our area, it's nothing because our defenses drive planting material, and I'm going to tell you what kind of planting material this is. Now it's tomato seedlings in the spring, then peppers, maybe cauliflowers or something, and as I said before, onions. This is what they're driving to the market in Maribor. If they need this new law in addition to registering this permit, a plant passport, then control of this material in their gardening, then of course there will be no profit from it and all of this will ruin their earnings. I believe it is the desire of great farmers, for they will destroy these little ones themselves on the market, because they will make it easier to do so. You also say that the law states that these plant passports can only be issued by producers if they fulfil, as the law states, certain personnel and spatial conditions. However, these conditions are not recorded in the law. So it's going to be a submarital act, and I don't believe at this point in time that it's going to be one way to handle this. So, once again, I would suggest that the proposer consider including in this law and those small producers who do not deal with it as a major activity, to exclude these producers from this law and all these unnecessary administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Perhaps I'd like to add to your questions. The conditions that growers have to meet if they want to issue plant passports are defined in the law, indicating that they have to be professionally qualified, this is the only condition, which means that there are no conditions for space, and it is also written that a farmer, if he is qualified, can do so himself if he does not, but can hire professional assistance to provide him with this. It is true, however, that as far as education is concerned, this is described or defined in a sub-legislative regulation where the criteria are actually divided very widely into four levels, which means that those who produce it for themselves and, in fact, in some restricted circle are not actually obliged, an education, but is a lightweight, or are engaged in this activity. Greater requirements are only when a particular issuing producer may also do so for his neighbour or beyond. In this case, however, higher education or lower education and years of work experience are required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. The New Slovenia Group proposes that the second and third examination of the bill be carried out on a regular basis. Anyone would like a word on this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u180	I would just like to say, on the basis of the material that we have before us, that it would be unusual for us today to find that we have a lot of wishes and professional comments, but on the committee that dealt with this matter, apart from our colleague Weber, we have not developed any addition to this law. In the next two discussions, what else can we then suggest that we change the essential solutions to this law if we have not done so far, when we have had it in the procedure, let's say at least three governments. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We are voting on the proposal for the second and third to be dealt with on a regular basis. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 26. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments, of 25.4.2001. Today was this review of the amendments tabled for you. I am therefore putting into discussion the amendment to Article 4 of which the applicant is the Government, his mother's working body supporting him, with a footnote, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Article 6 of order number one and two are irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I'm guessing the National Assembly has become unconscionable. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are nearby to join us, to work until the end of our regular working hours, that is 18.00 hours, and with our previous departures we do not cause a bad name to be quite the right and serious part of our national assembly. Thank you very much. We have recalculated the number of Members and Members without using the card. There's 46 of us in the hall. Before the end of our regular working hours, we do not necessarily feel that we usually stop work prematurely because of indiscretion, which really does not necessarily indicate our unrestrained relationship. There are 47 of us in the hall, so please insert the cards so that we can still make a decision about two, three amendments and properly finish today's work because we really did a huge thing. In view of the fact that it is really a matter of playing the part of this national assembly, I find a second presence. If we're not concluding, we'll have a third presence in two minutes after 6:00. We recognize the presence of others. There are 44 Members and Members present. I interrupt the work of the National Assembly by 6.03 p.m. the third time we determine the presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u182	Dear Members and honourable Members! We will vote on the amendment to Article 4. We'll find out for the third time. We are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 4. There are 47 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 5. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 5. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item. Allow me to give you another announcement regarding the continuation of the meeting tomorrow. I note that the agenda items 5c and 7c are not ready for consideration, so the assembly will not be able to deal with them tomorrow. Thus, the 6th and 10th items and the third agenda items 5th and 8th items remain unfinished. If the proposed amendments are tabled, we will start tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the third reading of 5 p.m. and 8 p.m., then continue the meeting at the end of the meeting at the end of the meeting at the end of the 6th point and then at the end of the 10th item of the agenda. According to the forecast, I believe that we will be able to complete the 5th regular meeting of the assembly tomorrow at the time of the morning session. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here and good night!
