ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	We'll start today with a slight delay. The working discussion with the President of the National Assembly is still under way, so we will start with a slight delay. Thank you so much for understanding. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Delak, Peter Levič, Roman Jakič, Joseph Špindler and Leopold Kremjar from 4 p.m. Since we will determine the presence in the hall, please kindly insert the cards and press the "quorum" button to determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. There are 56 Members and Members present. I find that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very well. Today's continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly is announced to begin with the 26th item of the agenda, a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation. The assembly will then move on to a closed 43rd point, this is a proposal for a self-contribution law, and to the consideration of the terminated 51st point, this is the consideration of the annual report on the operation of the pension and disability insurance institution for the year 2000 in the work where we interrupted yesterday due to the consultation of the parliamentary group and thus concluded this meeting of the assembly. We're moving on to 26. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA ON BOARD TRANSPORT AND COOPERATION OF THE DRAFT Law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Peterle, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I propose that we first take so much time that the presidents or leaders of the parliamentary groups can tell us where we are. I mean things, I mean a project that, I think, should be coordinated on both sides, from Slovenian and Croatian, in a way that would lead to results that would be acceptable to both sides. I think that now this haste that can occur, and some disharmony may not lead to such results. Now the parliamentary groups simply do not have any information on what happened at the college and where all this matter is now, what the Croatian Prime Minister's statements mean, what it means to know that the Croatian Foreign Affairs Committee has not confirmed something, etc. I think it would be good for us to get this information, to consult and then to continue to make decisions and also to decide whether today is the day that this has to happen, given what is stopping or what we do not know at this point. I suggest we take so much time that the leaders of the parliamentary groups can tell us where we are and where we want to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, Mr Peterle, are you suggesting that, after the initial implementation of Mr Minister - it is obvious that the representatives of the parliamentary groups have completed the working discussion - do you request the suspension of the work of the State Assembly? Mr Peterlet's procedural proposal that due to the Members' desire to familiarise themselves with the positions put to the vote by the leaders of the parliamentary groups during the working discussion, we should stop, put to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 33. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted, so we continue to consider agenda item 26. I ask the representative of the government, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Ruple, to present the government's opinion. Can I help you, Dr. Dimitri? Procedural proposal? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that the Head of our Group was involved in the College's discussion, which seems to have ended, in order to obtain the necessary information related to the consideration of this point, but we were unable to carry out any consultations prior to the opening of this point, we therefore request a half-hour recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Sorry, Mr Brenčič, we are before the vote. You know exactly what the rules of procedure are, so please, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! For the introduction to the point called ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport and Cooperation, I would like to say the following. A few history first. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an initiative to conclude an agreement on border transport and cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, saying so-called SOPS, on 27 July 1995; of which it is six years. It has adopted this initiative to enable and regulate the movement of persons between border areas in order to improve the living conditions of the border population and to allow for as free economic cooperation as possible between the entities of the two countries in the border area. The agreement was then signed by Zoran Thaler, then Minister of Foreign Affairs of Slovenia, and Dr Mate Granić, then Foreign Minister of the Republic of Croatia. This happened on 28 April 1997 and it was in Ljubljana. After that, the Croatian Parliament ratified the agreement on 16 September 1997. In Slovenia, an agreement was forwarded to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly, which then decided at its meeting on 19 April 2001 that the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation was not in conflict - I repeat and underline, it is not in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The agreement that is being discussed today is based on reciprocity and relates to an area approximately 10 kilometres wide on both sides of the common state border. The border belt stretches from the tromei with Hungary to the Bay of Piran. Traditional connections in the field of economy, culture, education, employment, infrastructure connections and the geographical position of settlements were taken into account to the greatest extent possible in determining the border band or settlements. Among the larger settlements are - to remind you, as far as is not already widely known - for example Lendava, Ljutomer, Rogaška Slatina, Brežice, Šentjernej, Črnomelj, Illyrian Bistrica and all three coastal towns. On the Croatian side, cities such as Čakovec, Varaždin, Krapina, Buzet. The Agreement introduces a maritime border area covering the maritime area of both Contracting Parties north of 45 degrees north and 10 minutes north of latitude, which is the southern border of the area at Vrsar in Istria. The area of the Croatian part of the sea area as a small border area is 2.5 to 3 times higher than that of Slovenia. The agreement will maintain and regulate the current benefits of crossing the border between citizens in the border area, which are agreed only on a record so far between the Slovenian and Croatian internal ministries, in a legally appropriate and binding manner, as this is an interstate agreement. The Agreement provides for the opening of 27 small-border crossings where the crossing will be possible with a small border pass. In addition, it allows the owners of the properties shared by the border line to work with a view to the processing of property crossings of the state border anywhere on the property. In addition, the Agreement deepens and expands cooperation in the border area in the following areas. I will mention: the area of foreign exchange and customs facilitations for holders of small-border concessions and agricultural inputs, then the area of wider and more planned economic cooperation in the border area, then environmental protection. It is about avoiding all environmentally-disputed interventions in the border area, informing about planned interventions into the environment, working together to address the consequences of environmental pollution and to address natural values or cultural heritage. This area of infrastructure - specifically for the mutual provision of clean supply to the border population with drinking water, gas, electricity and mutual support for the smooth maintenance of infrastructure facilities. Finally, it is the liberalisation of maritime and land transport, tourism and maritime and freshwater fisheries. Dear Members! A standing Mixed Commission will be established on the basis of an agreement with a view to developing border traffic and the correct application of the agreement. The Permanent Mixed Commission may establish specialised working bodies to harmonise interests in specific areas of cooperation. The Commission shall be composed of a delegation of the Parties. Each delegation may have up to six members, each member of its deputy and each delegation shall be chaired by the President. The way in which the Commission works will lay down the rules of procedure adopted by the Commission at its first session. The decisions of the Commission shall be adopted by agreement of the two delegations and shall enter into force when approved by the Governments of the two Parties. This does not apply to decisions containing proposals to amend or to supplement the agreement, of course. The Agreement shall be concluded for three years and shall remain silent, as it is said, for each of the following years. Each Party may suspend the implementation of this Agreement temporarily, in part or in full. Here I must remind you that, exceptionally, this does not apply to Article 57, under which the Parties are obliged always and without formality to accept the person who has entered the territory of the other Party under this Agreement. The provisions of the Agreement shall in no way prejudice the determination and marking of the State border between the Parties. This is clearly stated in Article 59. I mean, I would like to stress this in the end that the ratification of the agreement here in the National Assembly would have a beneficial effect on strengthening, which is called good neighbourly relations and trust, mutual trust between the countries, between Slovenia and Croatia. Such trust is particularly important at the moment when the countries are talking and negotiating and today they are concluding an agreement on the state border and on the Krko nuclear power plant. This event will, of course, be duly informed by Parliament by first discussing the initiative to conclude this agreement. I'm talking about the state border agreement now. I hope that the whole matter can be brought to a close this month, so that we will actually take a big step forward before the holidays in relations between Slovenia and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik announced in writing a procedural proposal that he would like to make after the performance of Minister Rupl. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Following the Minister's speech, I would like to express, on behalf of the parliamentary group, my wish for a short recess so that I can present my fellow Members with my views and some of the information we discussed before the meeting ended a few minutes ago. Of course, after this brief pause, the delegations and representatives could then also take their stand. I am also informed, informally, that Mr Minister is also a rapporteur for certain agenda items at the government meeting, and perhaps in this short period he will be able to perform his duty in the government and then join us as soon as possible. So I'm asking for a break, maybe 30 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Since the agreement was also in this direction during the working session with the President of the National Assembly, I am adjourning the meeting. We'll continue at 11:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Since we're four minutes late for work, I respectfully ask you to take our seats. We're detecting a presence. There are 56 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. The draft law was considered by the Committee on International Relations, Foreign Policy, as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the committee, the president. Mr. Jelko Kacin, please. I apologize, Mr Podobnik, I understand that you want a break, to consult in the Group of Members and that after they have the word of the Group of Members, you will be able to present your opinion in accordance with the Members of the Group. Thank you very much. Mr. Jelko Kacin, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At its 11th extraordinary meeting, held on 19 June this year, and at the third follow-up to the 12th extraordinary meeting, held on 17 July, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border transport and cooperation. At the end, he voted and, with 13 votes against, supported the ratification of the agreement. On 19 June, we discussed the proposal for this law. I have informed the members and members of the Committee in the introduction of the fact that the Committee on International Relations in the previous term has already considered the proposal of the Act and supported it, thus also fulfilling the conditions for its consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, I thought that the draft law should be discussed again and also identified in the Committee on Foreign Policy - the powers of the Committee are slightly different, and the composition is different, so it is right that we have also been defined in this mandate. At the same time, I have highlighted the fact that the text of the agreement has identified some written and technical errors that were then resolved by exchanging diplomatic notes. The members and members of the Committee also received the above notes on the bench. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, briefly chronologically presented the course of events that followed from the signing of the agreement to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning it. He stressed that the ratification of SOPS in the National Assembly took place during intensive negotiations between the two countries on the state border, but considered that the ratification of SOPS would facilitate the lives of the people at the border and have a favourable impact on economic cooperation, the provision of greater environmental security, cooperation in infrastructure and tourism, the liberalisation of coastal and land transport and many other activities. He cited the new developments that the Republic of Slovenia has concluded with the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Austria, compared to similar agreements, are governed by this Agreement, namely, the common tourist areas, the supply of electricity, water and gas in the border area, the operation of a permanent mixed commission to determine the state border and the opening of 27 small-border crossings. In doing so, he highlighted the fact that the provisions of the agreement did not prejudge in any way the determination of the state border between the countries and that the agreement would also apply after the introduction of the Schengen regime at the Slovenian-Croatian border. He added that, as long as the SOPS National Assembly did not ratify it, there would probably be a tightening of relations between Slovenia and Croatia. Finally, in relation to the errors found in the Slovenian and Croatian texts of the Agreement, he pointed to Article 11, where the last sentence of the third paragraph, which reads as follows: "This right must be stated in the agricultural contribution". This reference is now included in the agreement and the agreement is the same and equivalent in both versions. The members of the Committee agreed that ratification of the agreement was necessary as it would facilitate the lives of the inhabitants on both sides of the border. However, some have added that they would avoid many unloved plots at the border if the agreement had already been ratified, and unfortunately we have not yet. They highlighted the Constitutional Court's decision, which opened a number of new questions in its opinion, but referred to its conclusion as crucial that the agreement did not prejudge the state border. They agreed that the decision to ratify the agreement would be a political decision, as the Constitutional Court also pointed out in its decision. Some members of the Committee considered that the Constitutional Court had only assessed the compatibility of Article 1 of the Agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the ratification of the Agreement could make Slovenia's position worse in negotiations with Croatia, particularly when it comes to establishing a national border. They considered that they would also need the legal opinion of independent experts on that issue. In doing so, they raised the question whether the ratification of SOPS in the event of international arbitration in determining the national border would be at the expense of Slovenia and whether it would reduce Croatia's willingness to continue negotiations with the same intensity to establish a national border. They therefore considered it wise to ratify the agreement following the compromise reached on establishing the state border. However, other members of the committee felt the opposite of the latter. In order to achieve a principled agreement on the establishment of the State border before the ratification of the agreement in the National Assembly, it would be useful. The discussion also expressed the surprise that editorial errors were revealed in the text of the agreement only four years after it was signed. However, the question was raised as to whether those errors were detected after the reading of the Constitutional Court decision. Finally, the conclusions should be reiterated. We voted on the proposal for a decision, which literally reads: the Committee supports the conclusions adopted by the Committee on International Relations at its 32nd meeting, held on 6 and 12 November 1997, and the 50th meeting, held on 13 May 1998. These conclusions are as follows. First, the conclusions of the 32nd meeting. They read: The Committee took into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which had no comments on the proposal for a law. The Committee agreed with that bill and therefore proposed that the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider the proposal at its meeting and adopt it. The Committee on International Relations decided that the issue of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia would be addressed at a special meeting, which it also did. At its 50th meeting, held on 13 May 1998, the Committee addressed and agreed to the correction of the proposed law. This correction refers to Annex A to the Agreement which lists the places in the border band. Thus, we now have a new Annex A, which lists the disputed hamsters both in Annex A, is said in the Slovenian Annex, as well as in Annex B, is called the Croatian Annex. In doing so, I have a few more words to say about an interim period when the Committee was also dealing with the proposal for an interpretative declaration to the bill tabled by the then SLS Group of Members on 26 May 1998. Dr. Franz Zagozhen then said that the article 1 of the agreement was disputed since it was supposed to be contrary to the Constitution and that the said agreement should therefore be judged by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the interpretative declaration does not constitute a solution to this problem, the proposal for an interpretative declaration to the proposal for that law was withdrawn. The members of the Committee therefore did not decide on the proposal for an interpretative declaration because it had become irrelevant. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to say my intention, that, as soon as we can get a proposal for a border agreement and a proposal for an agreement on a nuclear power plant, we will also start a debate on the Foreign Policy Committee in order to define the Committee for these documents. [[...]] In the course of the last meeting, the Committee discussed and took note of the progress report on the negotiations on the nuclear power plant agreement so far. However, I would like to remind you that he has already addressed the initiative, supported it, and asked the government to take it up with progress. By expecting the government to be able to take note of the final text of the agreement after today's meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy. My intention is to make use of the first possible day of next week for the Foreign Policy Committee meeting to discuss these two agreements. The border agreement is not in the process at all, so we expect the government to deal with this agreement today and to refer it to the parliamentary debate. Finally, it took a long time, we talked a lot, we talked a lot, we talked a lot, but we didn't tell each other much. Now is the time to decide. And I would be happy if we decided today with a comfortable majority as we did at the last meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee. Let me tell you, 13 for and 2 for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The positions of the parliamentary groups will be presented: he first applied on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After the signing of the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, as early as April 1997, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed and sent to the National Assembly at the end of the same year, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has made every effort to ratify it in our Parliament. The proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement was first considered by the National Assembly in May 1998. At that time, by a majority of the votes identified, it was decided that the State Assembly would suspend the hearing, followed by five other unsuccessful attempts to have the State Assembly consider and adopt a proposal for a law at its regular or extraordinary meetings. The main reason for the non-acceptance and all withdrawals from the agendas of the National Assembly was the fear of the work of members of the National Assembly in order to ratify the establishment of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The last such experiment was held on 14 December 1999, at the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, when a decision was taken to postpone the consideration to one future meeting of the National Assembly. The agreement was thus found in the blind street that we will try today, I hope, to enlighten. The LDS Group has always supported the adoption of an agreement in the belief that it does not prejudge the state border, that it does not prejudice the interests of the State of Slovenia and that it has been signed by the Government on the grounds set out in the preamble, in order to enable and regulate the movement of persons between border areas and to improve the living conditions of the border population of the Contracting Parties, with a view to enabling as freely as possible economic cooperation between the Contracting Parties in the border area, bearing in mind that the cross-border local communities are at the heart of good cooperation between neighbouring countries. And all of these areas are actually regulated and it is only a pity that the agreement has not yet been implemented, as it concerns the fact that in the ten years of the independence of the two countries we cannot talk about the economic prosperity of the Slovenian provinces along the border, the regulated infrastructure, the regulated tourist routes, the good living conditions and the good cooperation of the border local communities that are actually taking place do not have the appropriate legal basis. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we have also always realized that the future Schengen border regime will exacerbate and exacerbate the situation for the border population. That is why, of course, we are working hard today, and we support this agreement. We cannot, of course, go beyond the fact that, since the last hearing, there have been a number of events to date that have an impact on the fact that the National Assembly at today's meeting can confirm the injustices and real reservations of this agreement. In particular, I should point out that on 19 April 2001, the Constitutional Court delivered an opinion on the Agreement, namely that Article 1 of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation is not inconsistent with the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and that Article 2 of the First Agreement is not inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution. This opinion, delivered on 22 May 2001, was issued on the basis of the initiative of the 30 members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the previous term. The initiative itself, as well as most of the signatures, was created in the LDS Group of Members, to dispel the concerns that led to the delay in the ratification process. The following is the fact that the agreement is also the subject of a coalition agreement. However, in support of the agreement in the Coalition Treaty, the partners are subject to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which I have already presented. Thirdly, in recent months there has been a shift in the resolution of other open issues between the two countries, including the establishment of land and sea borders. At the LDS, we were aware that there will be no obstacles to resolving further open issues, and they are already coming. We estimate, however, that today's ratification of the agreement on border cooperation and transport will help the Slovenian government's efforts in further negotiations, while at the same time informing its neighbours that the path of fair communication, without egoism and with a great deal of understanding, is the only path leading both us and our neighbours to Europe. The LDS Group will unitedly support the agreement and also calls on all colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly to support it with as many votes as possible "for" and thus to inform citizens and citizens in particular at the Slovenian-Croatian border that we can, we know and we want to listen to their present and future problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Anton Delak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable National Assembly! I must honestly say that we would prefer to address all outstanding issues about relations between Slovenia and Croatia, such as borders, nukes, foreign exchange roles, property and legal matters and, of course, other outstanding matters, but we do have a border traffic and cooperation agreement before us, and therefore, of course, I will only limit myself to this agreement. All the borders are obstacles, and between Slovenia and Croatia, the border is still a special obstacle. In fact, people have walked smoothly across these so-called borders for decades, people are in a relative and friendly relationship, the property of these people is on both sides of the border, and I am not talking, of course, about the economic contacts that were between people on both sides of the border. The agreement we have before us will facilitate these matters. I would like to mention that we already have a wealth of experience from the previous country, which was more closed, what these relations meant, let's say, in relation to Italy, in relation to Austria, or to our minority, and to our people who were then able to cross the border. I would also like to draw attention to the large number of letters, various calls that we have received from the parliamentary groups and receive today, for God's sake, that we should once again adopt this agreement and facilitate these matters. It is clear that the agreement as such does not prejudge future borders. On the other hand, the agreement is expected to be concluded for three years and, of course, in the event of poor experience, there is no need to renew it, which I am sure will not happen. The Constitutional Court has made a positive statement on this agreement. In view of all this, our DeSUS Group will support this agreement. However, all the other things I mentioned at the outset will be discussed when these points or questions are on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Aurelio Juri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Border Questions Agreements should contain quality answers and standards that will allow easy transition and the movement of people, goods, services, unhindered availability and processing of dual-owners' holdings, water and electricity supply in areas related to single municipal and energy systems, local communication in areas where there are no border crossings, and so on. The quote is from a document on the promotion of cooperation between municipalities at the Slovenian-Croatian border, from 17 April 1992 onwards. At that time, as it were right after the independence, it was therefore necessary to detect the need for border areas under an agreement between Slovenia and Croatia to remedy or at least mitigate the difficulties that the establishment of the interstate border caused, in particular in terms of the broken family ties and the partitioned space. Similar calls to governments in Ljubljana and Zagreb came from all corners of the border. They called for solutions similar to those contained in small-scale agreements concluded a few decades earlier by Yugoslavia with Italy and Austria, which in many ways facilitated living and working conditions along the border. Finally, the agreement on border transport and cooperation between Slovenia and Croatia was prepared and signed in 1997. The story of why even today the border people have no use for him, why his ratification and enforcement have been waiting in our drawers for almost four years, we all know. Some colleagues felt that it would be important, wise, for constitutional judges to speak about it. Finally, some 2 months ago, the latter informed us that the agreement in the work that was put into question was not contrary to the Constitution or the basic constitutional charter on independence and independence. Since, therefore, it is not contrary to the Constitution and not to the basic constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the State, because it does not prejudge the final agreement with Croatia on the establishment and marking of the border on land and the setting of the border on the sea, because it is not contrary to Schengen and does not harm our European project - on the contrary, if we read the European Commission's regular reports on our progress towards the EU, we find that the irregularity of the border issue with the southern neighbour is previously detrimental to us as a benefit. Since the SOPS benefits people, all those living or vacationing in the area in which it will be carried out, because the coalition has committed itself to its immediate ratification, on the positive opinion of the Constitutional Court, we express our full support to the law on the ratification of the border traffic agreement and cooperation with Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, the media! Today is a dark day for Slovenia. This is the beginning of the black days, which will continue with the signatures of two more agreements, the border and the nuclear power plant. This is a three-way child who will push Slovenia back into the Balkan frameworks on the one hand and, on the other hand, will harm the country in the way no agreement has so far hurt it. The stupidity that Mr Zoran Thaler signed years ago, when he didn't even know what it was, and he didn't understand the complexity of the issue, is now before us. Mr Drnovska's blackmail that coalition partners must sign this agreement has even led so far as, say, the Slovenian People's Party was prepared to issue the will of its constituents and turn around, and, as they have said, they will support this agreement today. The words we have heard and listened to all the time, how Slovenian life will live in border areas, are nonsense. If there is no economic boom at the border, if there are no infrastructure issues, if there are no regulated waters, electricity, roads, this agreement will not be resolved, this is the fault of the current government, which cannot and does not manage these conditions. If people think along the border - but not everyone thinks so, that's what the members of the united list and the LDS think, they're against it - if these people think the agreement will bring them prosperity, they're very wrong. It is true that we have a wealth of experience from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia when that country had two small-border agreements signed with Italy and Austria. Both agreements have, in fact, been created as the successor of previous acts, somehow since the end of World War II. Both small-border agreements have benefited Slovenian life, which I think we all agree on. But why? Due to the fact that Yugoslavia was significantly less developed and substantially different from both Western neighbours at the time. On the side of Austria and Italy, there have always been strong voices that these two agreements should not be signed or terminated. The fact is that such agreements always benefit a country that is in a poorer economic situation. The country that is in a better economic situation is profiting very little from this. That is true, says the fact that the then Yugoslavia did not sign small-border agreements with Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Albania, because those countries were even worse off than Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia profited at the time, and our living was profited at the time. Today, if the logic has not changed and has not changed everywhere else, except perhaps in the Slovenian National Assembly, where it has changed, the Slovenian government has long been gone, then the agreement will benefit neighbouring Croatia. And not only the border dwellers, but all neighbouring Croatia. No one spoke about the map that is part of this agreement. No one, in fact, was hiding it. And the map with the drawn little border belt was brought by the Slovenian Government to the meeting of the Committee on International Relations in the previous term only after the five sharp demands of the Slovenian national party. She's been hiding everything until then? And why she was hiding. Because of this, the small-border band that Croatia will be able to use goes all the way to the Italian border, both at sea and on land, to that depth, which covers two border crossings, Lazarus and Scofia. What does that mean? This means that both the sea and part of the coastal zone will be left to the Croats. Slovenian border authorities, Slovenian police and others will not be able to do much for those who can actually travel directly to Italy with a small border charter. They will not need to regulate any customs formalities, the Slovenian authorities will look on the side and make fun of them, as they actually do today, when Croatian patrol boats sail into the Slovenian sea, park in Piran and go on land for coffee, and make fun of them, "what if the Slovenes can't do anything to us" and make fun of those boats that our army or police don't even hope to leave in such a case in the vicinity of Croatian vessels. It's sad. I wonder whether the political interest of the ruling coalition must really prevail over national interest. In history, Slovenia has always, in fact, lost part of the territory after every war it won. We lost him because of the liberals who voted to join Italy, Garibaldi Italy in 1860, we lost Furlania - Julian Krajina and Rezija. We have lost Koroška, because of the communists we have lost the territory of Strigovska, the municipality of Radatoovici, the complete Istria and today's government gives Croats also with this agreement, and with the following of course, about the border, gives certain Slovenian territories again. Slovenian territories and part of the Slovenian sea, which has always been Slovenian. I do not know how it is possible for the Prime Minister of the Slovenian Government to easily share Slovenian property and thus easily remove Croatia. I will not go down for his reasons, which are very likely very private, but which, of course, hurts so much more, and that he cares so little about the Slovenian people, but for those Slovenian people who want to live well, not as some people think they will live the border areas - they will not. It is true, however, that some of the colleagues sitting in this round space will also be able to live significantly better now that they can connect with their relatives or with their roots on the Croatian side. It is essential for each agreement concluded by two countries that each country seeks something good for itself, for its own country and for its own people. This agreement is not; this agreement brings positive points only to the Croatian parties. That is why Croatia ratified it as soon as possible, within a few days of signature. And it is only now that the coalition of those who wish to sign the anti-Slovenian agreement is so strong that they will be able to push this shameful charter through the Slovenian Parliament. The debate was about the Constitutional Court and the decision of the Constitutional Court, and however, the question to the Constitutional Court was raised by the United List and the LDS in a reckless, unscrupulous and misleading manner. Therefore, both parties also hid the issue and did not raise questions in public. The question was somehow such that it was necessary for the Constitutional Court to determine whether Article 1 of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport and Cooperation is not inconsistent with the second section of the Basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia and or Article 1 of the Agreement referred to in the previous point - that is to say, in relation to the basic instrument - is not inconsistent with Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. It's a perfidious delusion. Of course, by counting in the Constitutional Court, on the one hand on the legalistic approach of some judges and on the client charge of some other judges. Thus, those who thought for the benefit of the Slovenian state were essentially not enough to reject this document. Both parties, in fact by fraud, came to the view of the Constitutional Court and used it as a fraud to justify how good this agreement is for the country. The agreement is not good for the country. This is just as if someone else asked the question that the Constitutional Court should decide whether, in Article 1, paragraph 3, referring to border crossings, it is constitutionally correct to write "passenger" or "passenger". And when the Constitutional Court ruled that it was right, then any party in that case could abuse this decision by both parties, saying that the Constitutional Court said that it was nothing contrary to the Constitution. This was done by the parties to the Consolidated List and by the LDS when this document was submitted to the Constitutional Court. When the Slovenian National Party re-examined the constitutional assessment of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation on 2 June 2000, where it was decided to require a decision on something else, this is true of the constitutionality of certain articles, of course the power of the coalition came into play and proved that the Constitutional Court had been instructed to dismiss the complaint simply and not to consider it. Such important matters had to be decided by the Constitutional Court. Because it's not in line with the coalition guidelines, it's not going to be discussed. What else can wait for us? We also have a border agreement to be initialled by both governments today. Are we going to kneel again? The fact is, we're losing a lot of money there. More than we thought, we're losing with that deal. With the nuclear agreement, we will give up all our contributions, which go into tens of millions of dollars, and we will give it to the Croats. At the same time, we will allow ourselves to retain nuclear waste in Slovenia for a gift. I think it is high time that coalition parties should weigh within themselves the decisions of some leaders and, above all, find Slovenian national interest in their decisions. This is not the case, at least we do not see it in the Slovenian National Party. Most Slovenians will find out what happened too late, as always. This is a Slovenian historical pain that is just so painful. The historical facts, from which our nation learns nothing, are cruel. And one of these facts will manifest itself in all its cruelty in a very short time. The agreement we have before us is actually one big "scroll". This "scroll" prepared by Mr Thaler, as instructed by Mr Drnovska, is probably in a state of inappropriateness, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Mr. Jelinčič, I ask you politely to hold to your appointments as men of dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Madam President, I didn't say anyone was out of line, I just took into account the possibility that someone was out of line. However, taking into account the possibility is nevertheless legally legal and, in any other way, also democratically permissible. Thank you very much, Madam President. I see there's some lady from the LDS who doesn't have to listen. The coalition, as well as opposition parties, are talking about the necessity of joining the Western European Union. It is questionable what will happen when Slovenia opens 27 new border crossings and when it relaxes or allows for the complete ease of crossing the border with Croatia. This is what this agreement provides. How can coalition gentlemen defend the fact that we are going to Europe and otherwise we are for the Schengen agreement and that we are for the border to be controlled, while they will leave everything, everyone and anything across the border. Gentlemen, I don't think you could have made a deal with anyone in the former Yugoslavia when you were in those positions. You don't know how to deal with anyone from the former Yugoslavia today, as our negotiations on success in Vienna show. Now that it's all quiet because we've had too much to eat and it's stuck in our throats because of the incompetence of your negotiators, gentlemen from coalition parties, and now we're supposed to be so smart across Europe that we'll have both calves and money. That's not how it works, gentlemen. It's not working. Just like you can't have sex and be honest. Or be innocent. While I believe that some of the coalition parties ensure that they are still innocent. And I would even believe some of them, given their inadequacy. The fact is we don't know how to negotiate, and the fact is we're losing and we're losing here too - and we're going to lose even more. In this case, we will certainly land where, according to the national party, the ruling Slovenian structure sends us more and more, and positions us back to the Balkans. The matter has already been under consideration in Europe to include all former Yugoslav republics, including Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, in some sort of second-class Balkan boiler. And then this thing got cold feet. Today these voices in Western Europe are heard again. What if one of the biggest representatives of the ruling parties or government received a tip or perhaps an order from his friends, who he thinks are friends in Europe, that he must do so? And then, if that happens and when that happens, of course, the ruling coalition will find a million excuses for not actually having to accept it, and to place the blame on the shoulders of the national assembly. And then Mr Drnovšek will say, "I didn't force you, I didn't stand by everyone, and I pressured you up how you must press for," but he will say, "You have made your choice, gentlemen, but now you have what you've done." This would not be the first time, but certainly not the last time, at least until Mr Drnovšek is Prime Minister of this government. However, I think some coalition partners have already overlooked this, and some partners will overlook it, or perhaps not. The agreement between the two countries was already written at the very beginning of the very "shampast", incomplete, imprecisely, because the Slovenian Ministry then demanded this year, on 18 June 2001, that the Croatians correct certain indications, some words and the like in their text. Among other things, they demanded - Slovenians, of course - that the phrase in Article 11, paragraph 3, should be added, "this right must be indicated in the agricultural contribution". How could this be allowed, however, when it is clear that an agreement ratified by a particular country [[has been ratified in Croatia]] can't he turn into anything? How is this possible, however, when our legal experts, great legal experts assure us, nothing is possible, it is forbidden to change anything. Who says the Slovenian government may not have dropped this on purpose? Who says? The fact that the last sentence of this paragraph has failed to appear here for technical reasons is unacceptable and cannot be swallowed. After all, it has been from a year, I don't know which year everything, until now enough time to figure out what years it has been to find out and settle the matter. Now they've got it on their necks, on their noses. On 18 June, it was a letter from the Slovenian side. And how interesting! The Croats responded the same day. Sure. Because it's in their interest to make an agreement. Because they're going to make a huge profit at the expense of the Slovenians, which we're going to lose hugely. However, the fact is that ruling parties do not whitewash their heads by what the Slovenian people will lose at the end of each day we can see a variety of strange properties, the transhipment of money here and there, up and down. But interestingly, more or less always and everywhere in the same pockets. I hope that the Slovenian people will also overlook this once and will call someone to account for it and for it. We're in a war of our own, thank God, we've put a little life on the altar of our country. However, one life alone is too much to sign and ratify such an agreement. Such an agreement can only be drawn up by those who were not included in the war of independence. And as I am aware, these gentlemen were not present. They were very well protected, or some were even abroad. Some alone, some with families and so on. Therefore, their own homeland does not mean much to them. And if only we respected Slovenian cultural heritage or knew it already, we would know that good neighbourly relations don't really mean much. Good neighbourly relations may be with someone who cares when their neighbor visits their wife. These can be good-neighbourly relations. Otherwise, I prefer to stick to that Slovenian negotiation that says "clean accounts - good friends". Because pure accounts can only be the basis of cooperation. Surely there are no net accounts in this agreement. But there are some bills. Probably also some accounts reported to some places. The Slovenian national party which does not accede to this Agreement has therefore tabled an amendment. Amendment to the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation. The amendment was tabled on June 28th, but we only got it on the table today, which is very interesting. The amendment was not discussed by the Committee on International Relations, because our Slovenian national party is an opposition party and is not strong enough to be taken into account. It's the notion of democracy by the ruling coalition. This is a democratic decision in the Slovenian Parliament. I don't know why, gentlemen, you've run so fast from the former Yugoslavia, but if you're taking her methods, and that's the methods, those that the rest of the republics came from the former Yugoslavia, to a large extent, and most of them are already gone. But it's probably because you had a tape in your head from those days, and you were in position, and you're in position today. I can't think of anything else. The Slovenian national party submitted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 213 which states in Chapter: Ratification of International Treaties, in the first paragraph: "The National Assembly ratifys international treaties by law. With regard to the examination, the proposal for a law on ratification and amendments to the article of the law, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on rapid procedure shall apply." The amendment was tabled. This is said to be the case. When we look back a little bit, we find in the Rules of Procedure chapter: Reduced procedure for the adoption of law or just before: Quick procedure for the adoption of law. Article 204 states: "In the swift legislative procedure amendments can be proposed orally. Before the vote, the amendments tabled orally" shall be submitted in writing to the President of the National Assembly. The amendments were tabled or tabled. And this amendment must be made by the parent working body, for the second paragraph of paragraph 204 of the article states: "The amendment may be submitted by an individual Member, a parent working body, a bill-maker or a government when it is not itself a bill-maker. The National Assembly may require that the proposed amendment be immediately pronounced by the parent working body, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Applicant and the Government." This is said to be an opportunity for a mother's working body to meet immediately, to discuss it and to accept or reject the amendment, but it must discuss it. However, this may also, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, convene another meeting on this subject, by adjourning this debate to a later date. We have tabled an amendment to Article 2, which reads as follows: "A new second paragraph shall be added to Article 59, which reads as follows: 'The determination of the future border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia will be carried out within the boundary line of the Tari Bay-Rogovići-Vranje village-Vižinada-Kaldir-Sovinjska Brda-Sovinjak-Slavna vas-Ročko field-Dolenja vas-Gomila-Brežca-Klana-Trštennik-Belica-Ruča-Gerovo-Hrib-Podgora in Istria and Gorski Kotar, on the line Kašt-Magovci-Donji Badovinci-Gornji Badovinci-Jezernica-Osovlje-Ravnina mountain in the area of Žumberje and on the line of the Muri-Hlapičina-Sveti Martin in Muri-Cigajnščak-Strigovič-Strmec-Presika-Verigija-Verigion in the Slovak Republic." The amendment has been tabled correctly. The amendment needs to be discussed because it needs to be discussed. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the foreign ministry has reached an amendment to the agreement when it has already been ratified on the Croatian side, then at least we have to stick to the procedures in our own national assembly. Then, gentlemen, you can reject this amendment, but it must be discussed and voted on. In the beginning, I've already said that Slovenia will lose a lot of things. I'm sure most people don't realize that. But I am sorry and it pains me that Members and Members of Parliament are not aware of this, because there are people in here who are supposed to protect Slovenian national interests with understanding and with their heart. After all, you can take the example of Croatia, which very defends its own interests; defends them even so far that it is willing to go to harm, to lie, to cheat, to get what it has set itself. At a few thousand kilometres of coastline, Croatians demand part of the Piran Bay. They will take part of the salty salt, take the namboda all along the river Dragonji on the left, despite the fact that the border near Dragonji is only a short time, the so-called border of course, only a little time on the river Dragonji but that it is in large part on the other side, it is said on the left bank of the river Dragonje, we will also leave those parts to the Croats. What did our negotiators get for agreeing to such a criminal act? I'm sure it'll come to the plan and the day that it happened. And then one of the following national assemblies will spit after this moment, just as some for legitimate reasons spit after the times when we have already sold Slovenia. In the former regime, when Slovenian communists cared little about where the Slovenian country went. It's all ours anyway. Croatian communists were not that kind of thinking. And Mr. Bakarič knew exactly what needed to be done. Because he said "communism is one thing, what I have in my pocket is another." Our calves worshiped in Belgrade, worshiped in Zagreb and everywhere. That's why it's no wonder we lost so much. Therefore, it is no wonder that we lost the complete Istria that came to Yugoslavia at the expense of Slovenian life, which is less on the Italian side every day.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Mr. Victory Jelinčič, allow me to remind you. Before we begin this session, I have warned you that the amendment you have tabled is irrelevant for the reasons I will explain when you are, with respect, finished by presenting the opinion of the Group. The border debate is not the point of the proposal for a law on ratification of the border traffic agreement. So I ask you politely and remind you to stick to the agenda. The explanation of the amendment will be clarified after your implementation. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Madam President! First of all, the word "limit" does not seem to be used. Article 59 of the Agreement states: "The provisions of this Agreement shall in no way prejudge the determination and marking of the State border between the Parties." In Annex B, we have a list of settlements in the border area in the Republic of Slovenia. In Annex B, we have a list of settlements in the border area in the Republic of Croatia. In Annex C, we have a list of border crossings for border traffic. Madam President, I understand that you can also take away the word, because the coalition treaty, if not your majority, gives you undisputed and, in fact, unlimited power over the grain and the essence of this national assembly, and also all of Slovenia. I have to say, you're taking advantage of her. That is why I did not expect anything other than that you try to simply reject the amendment as invalid or how you will declare it, because because you have agreed with the Croatian side that you will accept it today and will ratify this agreement, you have to do everything you can to make it happen today. In this case, you can break the rules of procedure, you can break the Constitution, because you are getting more and more ahead of yours or that JLA maxima, "but first, it complains". I have to tell you that this is not a democracy, this is not a democratic act and it is not a democratic principle, and that is not how it is done. But what worries me is what forces you so much that you have to kneel down to the Croats. What did you get for it? I don't mean you personally, Madam Vice President. But I can go to the Slovenian government and ask what you got, what you got for Slovenia, if you got anything for Slovenia. Definitely nothing. Maybe you got something for yourself. Is there a reason for this on the nose of accepting such agreements? Man is terrified when the ruling coalition behaves in this way toward its own people. For if he does so, in matters of such importance, what else can be done in matters of less importance. What this ruling coalition can then afford for ordinary people who do not have the opportunity, at least sometimes to raise their voices, like members of the Slovenian National Party in the National Assembly. Are we really going to get back to the times we went out of? I know, gentlemen from coalition parties, that you would like to be in those times. To sit, enjoy, and have all the ratings. But that's not going to work. Maybe there's a reason you want to make an agreement with Croat. Because the next elections will bring HDZ into the position of rule, and then you will deal with them and hit the Slovenian nation together. Everything can come to mind. All of it, gentlemen of goodness. Yeah, everything. I have to say, I'm afraid of that. I am not exactly a man to be afraid, not for myself, but I fear for the Slovenian nation and for the Slovenian country. I'm really scared. I don't think it's long before you see what you've done to the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Parties will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia were still an integral part of the former country ten years ago. After independence, it is understandable that there are still some questions that remain open, which are linked to a multi-year life together in the previous country. One such issue is, understandably, the border, because the border, the state border, is one of the important attributes of statehood. Other open issues relate to economic cooperation, ownership, finance. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced in our party that it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to find solutions in dialogue and negotiation with the friendly neighbouring Republic of Croatia in the principles of international law that will be acceptable to both sides and will be supported by inter-State agreements. Today, the National Assembly ratifys the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border transport and cooperation. Such an agreement is proof that the border can also constitute a barrier, although modern trends, especially in Europe, are heading towards the fact that borders are no longer barriers. From the beginning of this Agreement illogicality, order of order, has been incorporated into it. Unfortunately, we signed and ratified it before we were able to agree on open border issues. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party - this is one of the parliamentary groups, which is now the co-creator and root of the new SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, and in particular its head of the parliamentary group Dr. In the past three or four years, Francusus had played a very active role in discussing the content and solutions of this agreement as a member of the government coalition. Both he and our representatives in the government and members of the parliamentary group in recent years have been responsible, active and convincing in these positions. Responsible because we were aware of the problem or the fact that there was some conflict of two legitimate interests in the contents of this Agreement - I emphasise two legitimate interests. The first is that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged, in accordance with the Constitution, to enable our citizens and citizens to live alongside the borders in a way called orderly and quality. We also have two fellow Members in our parliamentary group today, Comrade Fabjan and colleague Trofenika, who are valued mayors of the two municipalities living along the border and who are very well aware of these issues themselves. We never minimized them. Never. At the same time, however, we were always in our minds, and our performances were of another interest. Let us call this an international political aspect of the content of this Agreement. We have not underlined just perhaps some of the constitutional concerns about the very content of this agreement. This constitutional dilemma has, in its view, been made very clear and respected by the Constitutional Court. We have also given this international political aspect. We did so out of national interest or we wanted to defend national interest. I add, those who stressed the interests and expectations of our citizens and citizens at the border, you also defended them. And that's not an omen. But the fact was that at times we were the ones who were very honest and public about it. It wasn't political, either. In the last election, we were not rewarded for these views. However, political history may show that this position was fully state-favoured. It's totally state-of-the-art. Another way we played our part was active. We have not only opposed certain solutions to the ratification law, but we have proposed possible solutions. We have always stressed one thing: that greater efforts must be made to negotiate between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia to reach an agreement on the border, especially at sea. We have always stressed this, and we are pleased to find here that over the last six months, perhaps especially in the last few months, this intensity has increased greatly. It has increased to the point that today, in a short introduction, the presentation of this international agreement, the Foreign Minister of the Slovenian Government, Dr Rupel, has already informed the National Assembly that the Slovenian government will initial the border agreement today. I note that this position has been correct in recent years and that the right information will be expected before the vote is concluded, that is to say before the concluded debate on whether this has happened and in what way, the one that will allow today's national assembly to ratify the small-border agreement with a large majority. In our arguments in recent years, we have also been convincing. At first, we were lonely in our positions, both in the previous government coalition and in the National Assembly, and then with perseverance and calm we convinced most of our fellow Members in the National Assembly, so that the previous mandate of the National Assembly of this Agreement was not ratified. When today the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group decides on its vote on the proposal for a law on the ratification of a small-border agreement, we will be guided by the next direction in our decision. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which we have examined in detail, the following chapters are also very important for us: points 30 and 35. Because they're short, I'll read them. Point 30: The question whether the implementation of an agreement in practice will in fact lead to the marking of a border line at certain parts of the border on land, even though only for the purposes of implementing the agreement or whether such enforcement of the actual authority will make Slovenia worse in any subsequent negotiation procedures, is not a constitutional legal issue, but rather a political issue which the national assembly must take over in deciding on the ratification of the agreement. It is as if the Constitutional Court, in its opinion, is claustrophobic, because today we are in this situation, but the situation is not bad. Today, before the final decision on this agreement, the Slovenian Government has every opportunity to inform us of this political issue in a very competent manner. And point 35: Thus a certain way of implementing the agreement may also raise the question of whether the implementation of Article 1 of the Agreement will make Slovenia's possible situation worse in negotiations with Croatia. However, when assessing the conformity of Article 1 of the Agreement with Article 2 of the Constitution, it cannot be assumed that the Slovenian part of the Permanent Mixed Commission and the Government will take decisions that would be detrimental to Slovenia in the implementation of the Agreement. This may, of course, exist, but this does not raise a question of constitutionality or compliance with Article 2 of the Constitution, but it does not concern questions of trust in the executive branch and political risk assessed by the National Assembly as a legislator, and therefore it is not a matter of a constitutional assessment that would be within the competence of the Constitutional Court. As it is said, we fully accept the Constitutional Court's opinion on the constitutional accuracy of the agreement and do not discuss it. In our opinion, however, we have the basis for today's honourable Members to invite us to take advantage of the opportunity we have before the final decision, even in terms of greater confidence and co-responsibility for this decision, before the final decision or before the vote, to invite the Prime Minister's National Assembly. I am convinced that the National Assembly deserves this to be addressed by the Prime Minister on such an important issue from this place. I am confident that if he is invited to do so, he will inform us of today's decision by the Slovenian Government to initial both agreements. When and if such information is confirmed, a large majority of our Group of Members will also confirm the small-border agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. With the independence of Slovenia, the new state border between Slovenia and Croatia has severely affected the life and work of quite a number of our citizens. Our living conditions at the border have changed overnight, to say the least. We have limited our freedom of movement in certain areas, we have made economic cooperation with the immediate neighbours difficult, and many transport connections have been cut short. In the immediate vicinity we have lost traditional markets for our products. In the tourist season after hours and hours, we stand in rows at international border crossings just to visit a relative across the border or go to a cemetery that is possible on the other side of the border. And there are also problems that border dwellers face daily. This agreement needs a border population; we need it just as much on our side of the border as they do on the Croatian side. We will have the same benefits from him as we, on our side of the border, as well as those on the Croatian side. We are aware that a small-scale agreement will not solve all our problems overnight. Far from it. It will, however, improve the living conditions of the border population and help restore economic cooperation at the border. In the Party of Youth Slovenia, we will support the ratification of the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation with the Republic of Croatia. We will support it for 250,000 of our citizens who will benefit directly from it. We will support it because it will directly benefit the border local community, which is the foundation of good neighbourly cooperation, because we consider that this is a good step towards creating a positive climate for faster resolution of other open issues between Slovenia and Croatia, and we will also support it because the Constitutional Court has ruled that it is not in conflict with the Constitution and does not prejudge the state borders. Finally, we will support it because it will not only make people's lives easier at the border, but also improve relations between Slovenia and Croatia. And that's what this is all about. When we vote on the ratification of the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, we will show Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia whether we really want good relations with the neighbouring country or we are just talking about it with a fig in our pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! It usually occurs in international relations that States or countries conclude a border agreement first, and then a small-border cooperation agreement. It often happens that these two agreements are concluded in the same time or that this is even the same agreement. That's the normal way. We didn't have a normal route like this. This has resulted in a number of problems in recent years. The original sin of this problem, which we are also talking about today, to ratify or not to ratify this agreement, is based on or lies in this very fact that we first concluded an agreement on case B, and then we negotiated or did not negotiate on case A. First step, then the first step. Now I will not go into this debate into the situation that led the then authorities to do so. The fact is, in this particular case, there are two very different interests when it comes to regulating these border issues and also addressing small-border issues between Slovenia and Croatia. Here, of course, the interest of Slovenia and Croatia is not the same, simply because Croatia, by signing, ratifying and waiting for the ratification of a small-border agreement with Slovenia, has essentially resolved the majority or the bulk of the open issues arising from the fact that two independent countries have emerged in this area. With Slovenia, of course, it was not because the key question is whether we are or will be a maritime state or not, whether it will come directly from our territorial waters into international waters or not, we are not solving this issue by means of a small-border agreement. So the interests of both countries were different here, and our negotiators, who did not see it or who did not realize it, made a big mistake back then. And I think that's clear to everyone today and there's no point in losing words about it. This error in reverse dynamics, the things that have been put on top of it, has been significantly greater than those which are also in this agreement and which have already been mentioned at many meetings of the Committee on International Relations. This is a key issue, this fact is a key, crucial reason why this agreement has been discussed for so long. It was not about any internal political games, various interests, conflicts of interest and so on, but it was a real problem that existed. Those who do not want to deepen into the content itself should recall the speed at which Croatia ratified the small-border agreement. That said everything, they ratified it right away. I happened to be in the Croatian Parliament the day or the day after, when the Slovenian Parliament, the first time we had this agreement on the agenda, did not ratify, and I saw the excitement in the Croatian Parliament, why it did not happen, and it was clear to me what was going on. It was also clear that it was on the Croatian side that the issue of the border between Slovenia and Croatia, especially the maritime border, had been resolved after the ratification of the small-border agreement in their assembly or the signing of this agreement, because there was simply no pressure left to come from a real situation and which would have led the Croatian policy to do so. We have placed ourselves in a subordinate or worse situation, and this situation has lasted for quite some time. Thank God, things have changed now. We welcome this new dynamic, not only the relations between Slovenia and Croatia, but, above all, the energy that has recently invested in resolving the border issue. Ten years after the conquest of the two states, it's probably time for this to happen. Finally, it must be borne in mind that the Schengen border, once Slovenia is in the European Union, cannot be approximated. It probably has to be pretty specific. This is a question that has not yet been highlighted, but according to the logic of the matter we should be aware of this problem. What is most important - during this time there has also been a change in Croatia, a change in internal policy in Croatia, a change in Croatia's foreign policy orientation. This is the self-sufficiency and awareness that, once a small-border agreement has been concluded, they have already resolved all the problems concerning the border with Slovenia. This awareness has begun to wane because an unresolved issue in the foreign policy strategy of the countries wishing to join the European Union means or is given a different dimension than if the country is in some different positions or if it does not have this objective or option. In these changed circumstances, non-ratification, in addition to continuing these problems which people have on both sides of the border, also produces different, for example, consequences for Slovenian national interests. At this point in my opinion, the non-ratification of this agreement represents - if you have been monitoring the reporting of Croatian media in recent days, you may have noticed it yourself - an argument to those opposed to the conclusion of the border agreement in Croatia. These voices are strong. Personally, I have repeatedly said this publicly, I do not believe that in a very short time there will be ratification of the border agreement in the Croatian Parliament in this political situation. One of the most appropriate talks is the non-ratification of a small-border agreement in our Parliament. Nevertheless, every step forward, including the agreement signed at government level for Slovenia, is in my opinion a step forward. The second thing about a small-border agreement, which also needs to be realised, is the trap of the procedure that we have entered into by signing ourselves. The fact is that an international agreement signed by the opposite party or the other party has already ratified the Parliament cannot be changed in any word, letter or comma - we all know that - no amendments can be tabled. The only way that remains is to start new negotiations after ratification on the things that have actually been overlooked here and where there are shortcomings. There is no guarantee that the other side will be benevolent here and that it will agree to this immediately, but there is no other way. There's no other way. Those who have these shortcomings in the non-ratification argument agreement must tell what the alternative is. There's practically no alternative. For these reasons, which I have just mentioned, the position of our Group is also followed. We discussed these things a lot in the party and analysed things, and our world discussed them at the last meeting and decided. In this way, our parliamentary group will support or not oppose ratification. The ruling coalition has enough votes to pass this law. And for two reasons. The first one is clear and obvious and you've all already mentioned it, this is the solution to these specific problems, which the 10,000 who live on both sides of the border have, including the local community. The second reason for the support lies in the fact that we assess that the ratification of this agreement after these years, due to the relationship of forces in Croatia, is helping those who advocate the conclusion of an agreement on the border between Slovenia and Croatia. And this agreement that will not go to the detriment of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Aloise Peterle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! Good neighbourly relations with all our neighbours have been one of the first three fundamental objectives of our foreign policy since the start of the Slovenian foreign policy strategy. Relations between Slovenia and Croatia are in this context and are in the interest of the whole country or both countries, not only the border dwellers, who are particularly concerned with the border transport agreement and participate. This regulation of our relations is especially evident by our wish or at the wish of both countries to join the European Union and NATO. The Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation is essentially not an open issue as regards content. The open question is Ozira is not a matter of rank, such as some other open issues. [[...]] The open question came from the decision-making method, due to certain errors in the procedure itself, even in the text itself, which is in some ways unforgivable, but obviously happens. This issue has become an unnecessary issue. A lot of things have already been said behind this counter today. The new Slovenia has never questioned the fundamental purpose of this agreement, and this purpose also supports it today and in communication with people and their representatives for the border, I could say on both sides, because we also meet Croatian mayors or Croatian residents, we know exactly how important this agreement is for people on both sides of the border, which will last for at least some time. It seems questionable to us two. Firstly, the decision-making method and the sequence of events. With regard to the way I think first of all about the disagreement and the unanimity within the previous ruling coalition, after the government had already adopted it fell into Parliament, if I say so and to some extent this matter continued later. In the situation as it was, the Prime Minister, who had already signed this agreement, wanted the opposition's help, which, on his part, is completely understandable, but unusual for the normal functioning of the democratic states and their coalitions and relations between the coalition and the opposition. And, of course, opposition parties did not go this way to vote on one of the coalition partners, if I say so, with the help of those who are in the government for it and would thus come to this agreement. The second thing, of course, is the sequence of events. A fundamental error was made when there was a decision to proceed with this matter without setting a limit. Thus, it is not unusual that so many complications have arisen on this subject. The fact that the Constitutional Court has ruled, as it is, of course solves one part of this issue or answers some of the questions raised in this house but does not resolve the political dimension of this issue. It is clear that the Court was unable to discuss and decide on possible or hypothetical consequences that could have occurred due to such an agreement on border traffic and cooperation. The new Slovenia, as I said, is for an agreement, but it is not for such a sequence. So, first the border, then the agreement, and we said this on various formal and informal occasions. In fact, we are at a stage where we could put things in the right order, although some of the facts have already happened. So, there's already been a signature, it's happened on one side of the ratification, it's said on the Croatian side. However, let me say that this fact does not necessarily cause any particular problems. If we are a little fair and we have some historical memory, we remember that, if I recall correctly, we had an economic cooperation agreement with him, he had such an address, he ratified us once, and he didn't, but there was no special storm. I am in favour of this moment when there has been a movement, at least so I hope, because we have not seen any draft agreement at any committee's tables yet, but we only have reports of intermediate stages in the negotiations, so I think that at this stage, as parliamentarians, we can expect the Prime Minister to inform us of the whole matter, pour us a clean wine if necessary in a closed session, and tell us exactly where we are now. Mr Rupel told us that the ratification of the agreement would have a beneficial effect on strengthening good neighbourly relations and mutual trust. In Novi Slovenija we have a general comment on this. In view of the fact that agreed steps should be taken in building trust in the very good and accurate coordination of both sides that want to achieve common success, because both sides must win these matters, not declare them as now, what is favourable to one side or what is favourable to the other. We should work together to benefit from the strengthening of good-neighbourly relations and trust. In this sense, I think it would be good for certain matters to happen at the same time as agreed, without debate as to what this or that decision means for or against. It is clear that this whole project is of such a nature that it will not lead to the end, even if some of the holidays or we are approaching the month when it usually does not work in parliaments, that is, just collecting the oars from this track or so-called favourable pieces will not lead us to the conclusion of this project, which is not only in the interest of the two countries, I think it is also in the interest of those with whom we want to work more closely in the future, especially in view of what is going on south-easter than we. I must say that we have been disturbed by the method in this sense that this is happening again in a typical way, I must say, Drnovšek's policy of time distress; so we made constitutional changes, so we accepted the so-called Spanish compromise, so that on Christmas Eve a pension reform was adopted, and so it will now be said, 'but now we have three more days, but now if you are for it, if you are, if you do not, but take full responsibility, we have led to this; if you vote for, okay, but if you do not, write it down.' So again it is a policy of time distress, just before the end of the parliamentary period of the first half of the year. I don't think it's good that we have the impression that this thing is set up because it's obviously tiny in some way. I think that the government should take care of the right atmosphere, the right climate from the outside and from the inside, and that there should not be very large differences between the government and Parliament in Croatia. Of course, I imagine that if the Croatian Prime Minister risks or wants to see his foreign policy committee, the Prime Minister can do so too - it is obvious that the two presidents have decided to give the foreign ministers some time off and settle these matters themselves. [[That's a special question that I'm not going to deepen here.]] . So, I expect our parliamentary group expects our Prime Minister to find time this afternoon after the government's meeting, which is supposed to be under way. I say, I expect, because if it shows that I would not want to do this, our group would demand that it do so, so that it will come here and tell us what it is like to deal with things now, how it is with the whole. In this climate creation, I still expect that the coalition will be united and that through this unity it will try to convince the opposition parties into a broader political consensus, even though it has two-thirds of it. We feel this effort, we also welcome it, but we want things to be transparent, timely and not to be any fraud. For, as I have said, this is not just a small-scale agreement, it is a matter of things that will have long-term consequences, and I would not want any of us, or on those sides of the border, to have a headache because someone could see that someone has forgotten any national interests. I would like to mention once again the fact or two facts. As I follow this debate and monitor the media on this side and on that side, I listen to sentences that do not announce the best end. On the Croatian side, I hear expressions of political factors that the Croatian Nuclear Agreement is favourable. When he hears such a statement on the other side, he may think that he may not be comfortable with both sides; or if one side declares a great benefit of an agreement, the impression is that the other side has brought a shorter end. On our side, the president of one of the coalition parties on the work of the border issue said that the solution, as he knows it, is beneficial for Slovenia. Such a phrase must come across at least questions on the other hand, what has happened now, that one of the coalition parties is explaining to the home and the world that Slovenia has achieved something. I would expect some political and diplomatic culture, especially negotiating culture and no "kiking" until the results are on the table and confirmed at least on the government. This "singing" does us no good, not here or in Croatia. I would expect that the government is operating differently and that it is not defined in this way by the disclosure of, I would say, for once, the results achieved. Because none of this has yet been confirmed. I would certainly like something else to say that this house, which will be responsible for confirming some agreements, is informed before we know that something has been confirmed by the Croatian government or the Croatian Parliament. I think that some culture and the right sequence of events should also be taken care of in this respect. I think it is still time for the government that is leading these matters to ensure the right sequence of agreed events, for which we will not call for unilateral steps that should lead to confidence, or to criticise steps that will not lead in this direction, and we could come back in this way to harder positions. I think it's, I'm not gonna say it's a better time, but it's time to make things right. Our parliamentary group will assess what the government will bring into this house from this point of view whether it is possible to achieve more, or whether these agreements go beyond what is the best situation and the situation is not the best, or whether this satisfies the essential Slovenian interests and is, of course, acceptable to us. I'm avoiding words that are convenient. The agreement, its solutions must be such that they are acceptable to both sides and that, of course, they will also be adopted on both sides. We will not object to the agreement itself. However, we want to get a clear view of the whole handling of matters with Croatia as soon as possible before deciding, because we believe that this is normal, that this is useful and that this may also be effective. In short, matters need to be assessed before or without the public. I'd like to see the government's assessment of what she thinks, what she's achieved, what's more acceptable to her, what she won't accept. And, of course, on this occasion, it will also be necessary to remember what the starting points have already been adopted on various issues. These have not been accepted or are now binding. So, we would like to see, in the interest of the people living along the border on both sides, that these issues be settled as soon as possible, which will not only make life easier, but also bring it to a higher quality level, and we see in this the possibility of one beautiful developmental environment across the border in both directions. But since we now have the opportunity to see the whole, I would suggest that we continue to decide on this sequence and that we do not give ourselves any basis to wonder whether we have made the right decision or not. It's an opportunity for a proper sequence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. All representatives of the parliamentary groups have presented their views by moving on to the debate between Members and Members. We have received very many written applications for the debate. As the hour is approaching this afternoon's work, allow me to read in this part the sequence of Members who have notified themselves to the debate. Mr Jože Ašič will be discussed first, then Mr Bogdan Barovic, Mr Sašo Pece, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Mr Dorijan Marcič, Mr Andrej Vizjak, Mr Franci Rokavec and Mr Valentin Pohorec. These are written statements that allow for an unlimited discussion in the afternoon work. Given that we start the afternoon break at 1300 hours, I am asking the first debater or he will succeed by 1300 hours. Mr Ašić will not succeed, so I am adjourning this morning's session. We'll resume at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests. We continue with the afternoon session. We will determine the presence and politely please insert the cards or press the "quorum" button to determine our presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 51 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Before I give the floor to Mr Ašić, allow me to convey to you the message of the President of the National Assembly that the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšek, will join us after the end of the government meeting at 4:30 p.m. Mr. Joža Ašić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Today, several times has already been mentioned in the Constitutional Court's decision as one of the grounds for us to consider the agreement and to vote on it. As the first-signed on this initiative, I would like to inform, in particular, those who do not know the previous story, why this has happened at all, of some of the facts that have affected our decision to make such an unusual move that the 30 Members of this Parliament have signed the initiative, namely the 30 which we essentially agreed and supported the agreement and its ratification. The question of whether or not the agreement was in place was in the air throughout and in all the phases we had put through the procedure in Parliament. This was the main and fundamental reason, in addition to perhaps another reason why the two government parties were at the time not coordinated, but I think this was of secondary importance. For both in Parliament and in the debate, as well as in some consultations and also in the media, the question was whether the agreement was established or not and, in particular, Article 1 of the Agreement, it called for such an action. I think this action was good and successful. For I almost hope that today it would be very difficult to discuss this agreement, despite the fact that the current political situation and relations are different than they were a year or two ago. For the Constitutional Court, in its decision, in addition to some of the opinions already cited, has clearly stated that the agreement is constitutional and is not contrary to the Constitution and the basic constitutional charter. To avoid any argument that we have not asked the court correctly and that we have only asked for Article 1, let me say that our original role, which defined this constitutional initiative, was as follows: "The signatories of the National Assembly propose to the Constitutional Court that it be said that not even Article 1 of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport and Cooperation, nor is the agreement entirely inconsistent with the Constitution." Not even the whole deal. This was in January 2000. Soon, however, the judge who was obviously assigned this assignment was Dr. Janez Čebulj, who sent a letter to me as a first-signed letter requiring that this initiative be updated, and in one part it referred to only one unreadable signature of the Member. The second part was as follows: "For this reason, as a first-signed Member under Article 28, paragraph 3, of the Law and so on, I call for you to complete the proposal tabled together with the signatories by identifying which provisions of the Agreement are to be subject to a constitutional assessment and by which provisions of the Constitution are to be inconsistent and why." The explanation is that the Constitutional Court will simply not assess those articles for which we will not give an initiative. We sent this supplement quickly. And then we complemented and clarified our initiative once again. It is, of course, very strange that the same judge, who has made such a request, has made it necessary to define precisely the Article to which this initiative relates, has not followed up on this and has assessed other articles in his separate opinion and has challenged Article 54. We have already talked about this today, and it is therefore right to draw attention to the separate opinion of Judge Škrkova, who also assessed Article 54, and also to the Constitutional Court's decision that it is not in the context and contrary to the fundamental question of whether the first Article 1 and the agreement is completely unconstitutional. So much to avoid any questions. Of course, the second question and other opinions which were negative in this case referred more to the procedural question and whether the procedure was still in force, since of the 30 signatories we remained in Parliament at the time or in this composition of 20 other Members. However, I must also say here that we asked the Constitutional Court, immediately after the election and re-election of the parliamentary mandate, whether it was necessary to supplement the missing signatures with new signatures, which could undoubtedly be done, but the answer was that there was no need because the procedure was ongoing. Thus, the matter was already started in June last year and, of course, also brought to an end. The second part of the dilemma that emerged in the discussions around the agreement was also the question of how far this agreement is in line with the Schengen acquis, which Slovenia will soon take over. In this regard, I myself have asked for an opinion which I have also received from experts, so that there is no mistake in not having any doubts. I think you all know this opinion now that it is not contrary to the Schengen order. In fact, Europe and the Schengen acquis accept such agreements as part of the law which the country brings as a new Member of the European Union. Only if we did not do so would there be a problem, because in such a case all the members of the European Union must ratify such an agreement, which would, of course, be significantly more difficult or almost impossible. If anyone wants this expert opinion, I can also attach it to him, suggest it or show it. So the basic dilemma that has always been present was whether the agreement is in accordance with our constitution or not. And that is why I am convinced that we have done the right thing and that, in fact, some malicious remarks have been mediafully produced, that the Members who signed this initiative have in fact rejected its adoption for an indefinite period of time or until its decision that we have even terminated this agreement and similar matters. Once again, I am sure that without the opinion we have today from the Constitutional Court, it would be very difficult to discuss and conclude an agreement today. I am also pleased with the facts, at least so it was to be understood from the introductory positions of all the members of the group that most of all the members of the group had unconditionally supported the agreement or even conditionally. I therefore hope that the agreement will also be concluded today. Of course, it should be stressed that even when the agreement was first considered, it was already adopted that today we would have significantly better conditions at the border and that the infrastructure would already be put in place, as this agreement will be followed by a considerable number of tasks for regulating infrastructure at the 27 new border crossing points. We would have a mixed committee that would probably already be able to deal with a number of demands and roles of some border municipalities if these 27 border crossings were too small. I also know a few cases where new needs are emerging, and we could have done all of that by now. It is necessary to know that the situation has changed since the conclusion of this Agreement and that today some of the needs in some areas, due to the congestion of traffic at international and interstate border crossings, are even greater. I hope that the agreement will be adopted, that the Mixed Commission will start its work as soon as possible, and that, of course, it will also deal with all those problematic issues, or not well enough done, which, as such, may prove to be in its practice. So much for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Ašić's performance would like to be replicated by Mr Jelincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Auschwitz would like to point out something when he said that if we ratify the SOBS, so that we bring it into the European Union, that is to say within the framework of the Schengen Agreement this SOBS and Europe simply takes over. The fact is, a good master, if anything, may require something. Once again, it turned out that the Liberal Democracy or Coalition has received nothing for the enormous gift it will give to the Croats or will not receive anything for the country. However, I am confident that many individuals from coalition parties will receive from Croats a great deal for this great gift.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic made his next statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I listened attentively at the beginning of today's session of the national assembly, Mr Jelk Kacin, who mentioned, among other things, that he wanted to see a political consensus reached when the SOPS was adopted today, as was the Foreign Policy Committee, where, if I remembered correctly, 13 members voted in favour and 2 opposed. Well, I am also pleased to read the additional report of the Committee on Foreign Policy that there were not only two people who thought differently because there were more of them from the plural in the sentences. I will quote only two sentences if you allow: "Some members of the Foreign Policy Committee felt it would be wise to ratify the SOPS following the compromise reached on establishing the state border, while others considered it prudent to reach a principle agreement on the establishment of the state border before the ratification of the border traffic agreement and cooperation in the national assembly." I have really talked carefully and listened to my fellow Member, Mr Ašić, during a vacation outside three hours ago, when he explained to me the very difficult situation of people living in the so-called border area between the republics, the state of Slovenia and Croatia, and how these people are bitter and angry, especially at the national assembly, at those who live or live in Ljubljana and do not know what problems they have at the border. But problems, as you and I know, tend to grow disproportionately over time. And it is precisely these problems that people in the border area between Slovenia and Croatia have, which are why I wonder why SOPS was not adopted, ratified already in 1997, why it was not ratified in 1998, why it was not ratified in 1999, why it was not ratified in 2000 – six failed attempts to ratify this agreement have already been made. Who can guarantee that the current situation is just right and mature for us to ratify the agreement here and now. In fact, I wonder why. We have heard the explanation that due to the fear of some Members in the previous term, the fear that - I did not quite remember - fear, some fear. I see two answers, whether there is something really wrong with the judiciary, that there have already been six failed attempts, or whether there is another possibility that one and the same group of people will not intentionally support or ratify the agreements. Well, this other option doesn't seem likely to me, because at least, I don't know, my fellow Member, Sonja Areh Lavrič, or Sasha Pece, and I, too, weren't there at the time, and we couldn't get along on purpose. Therefore, it seems to me, which confirms the speech of all colleagues before me, that the order is actually replaced. Because it is hard to imagine if a border agreement is reached, and the border will be slightly different, how we will be able to implement an already ratified border transport and cooperation agreement. Or vice versa, when this one is ratified, we know where these border areas are. That's why the border probably won't change. Another principled position is, however, allow me to express it again, because I haven't in a long time, after Cankar from his Masters, with a sentence that Mezhnar told Mr. Komar, a politician who was just turning around like the wind blew. He said, "I'm old and sick, I have three children, I'm hard to live, but I've never kneeled before a man." Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peca has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Respectable present. I believe in quality legal acts, so I do not believe that its content will ever actually come true despite its point, the content that this legal act should make life easier in the border municipalities. You know, gentlemen, all of us sitting here know and know what legislation we are adopting in our National Assembly. We adopt legislation where we meet again in months and months with the law on amendment and complementarity. In short, I am sorry that the law-makers, in this case the law we have before us, namely the ratification of the agreement on border cooperation, are not better prepared for such a legal act. But let's go slowly to the content. Several speakers in front of me said how important this content is, above all, to the citizens, the localities of those surrounding, border communities to which this agreement will tend, how eagerly they look forward to the well-being of this agreement. You know, the country has to take care of the satisfaction of all citizens in the first phase through its fiscal and monetary measures. He has a lot of instruments at his disposal for this. Unfortunately, in my opinion, he is not the only one and is not the basic instrument of foreign policy. Therefore, for the benefit of all regions in the Republic of Slovenia, the main concern must be the selective, financial and tax measures which this government defends. And what it does in the area of selective tax policy, we have been able to understand from the proposal for a 2002/2003 budget memorandum - additional taxation. With this, I just wanted to say that this is not the right way to gain cheap political popularity if we have to accept this because it will improve the lives of those people living in the border congregations. This is short and concisely said very cheap political demagogy. Slovenia, in general terms, and its local communities, which border or are covered by this Agreement, will achieve nothing. Slovenia is therefore losing the case. Let's get Croatia. And it is sad that the Slovenian government and the competent department deal with the issue of border cooperation on a case-by-case basis with other open issues that we have with the Republic of Croatia, which show the need to resolve the issue from the period of independence onward. According to the Slovenian National Party, as the speakers have said before me, it would make sense to resolve the whole issue with the Republic of Croatia, which is of course important, in its entirety. I want to say that, for the price of its popularity and appearance in the European Union, Slovenia should not give up on one of the most important issues of state-of-the-art, that is territorial integrity. In spite of the 59th provision or 59th Article of the Agreement, it is very short, the provisions of this Agreement shall in no way prejudice the determination and marking of the State border between the Parties. In this regard, let me say that the act we adopt has a speech on border traffic in its content or address. We are talking about rules and behavior in an area along the border. However, Slovenia does not yet have a certain limit. You know, it's kind of like setting a rule of behavior on how to act on a bus, but we don't have buses yet. It is a certain hierarchy or the correct time frame for the adoption of certain legislation. In the Slovenian National Party we are the first to set a fair border at sea and on land. However, to set a limit that will not be a disgrace to the country of Slovenia, not to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not to all others who accompany our activities. And it is in our conviction that this law or ratification, or SOBS, in our opinion, interferes with the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is stipulated that, in some context, the rules laid down in this SOBS will have to be followed, thus we will give up on the issue of our territorial integrity. And on what account? On the basis of the ability or false presentation of the ability of Slovenian diplomacy abroad. Do you think this is worth it, gentlemen and ladies, who have proposed this act or who today you are the successors to this act? And all those who support this act? We will not support it in the Slovenian National Party, of course, because we think the issue of the unity of Slovenian territory is too important. Approximately the same fact is also mentioned in the Constitutional Court decision, where, as expressed in the opinion of the parliamentary group, it was generally asked for an opinion on the relevance of Article 1 of SOPS. [[SoPS has, I think, about 60 articles]] , and it is also appropriate to hear the reply of the Constitutional Court, which, in its first two indents, refers specifically to Article 1 of the Agreement. All those who today advocate SOPS, led by the Slovenian Foreign Ministry, which, at one of the meetings of the Committee on International Affairs, presented as a decision of the Constitutional Court in the positive branch of the entire content of the decision or SOPS, is, in short, a lie. With this, you, 30 of you, and today only 20 of you, have tried to deceive the Slovenian public with the requirement of constitutionality and that part of Slovenian politics, which naively follows the beliefs you express on a daily basis and on all the parental committees or interested working bodies. The danger seems to us at point 30, although it has already been exposed, where it is the Constitutional Judges who warn us that the consequences of the adoption of SOPS will also be territorial and that this is a purely political decision. So, don't say that the Constitutional Judges have told us, and that the 59th Article of the Agreement itself is in the sense that we are not interfering with the establishment of the border. The Constitutional Judges are warning us. The right path and path that we have been working towards within the Slovenian national party at the time of the adoption of the agenda, when we have proposed that the act under consideration should not be placed on the agenda, is that, firstly, it should be made thoroughly known to all Members to inform the professional public and only then to take appropriate action. For this would be an appropriate way, given that we are today talking about territorial integrity and that today the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which was recently part of the Piran municipality, which was Slovenian, should not be accepted by the Croats. In the Slovenian national party, we have also tried in various ways, in the form of communication within the parliamentary group, to reach a decision that would demonstrate the true will of each individual Member. We looked at the possibility of a secret vote in the Rules of Procedure, because we are confident that if we voted in secret today on the SOPS, it would not have been adopted. If political February, the leaders of the parliamentary groups did not have an overview of the votes of individual Members, the result would be different. Because I am sure that, like all of you, you know that with this act today, unfortunately, we will give Croatia a green light for our territory. I think that this is a damage that cannot be marked by words, as the head of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary club, Victory Jelinčič, said it is a black day. In fact, this will reach into the future, into the future of the Republic of Slovenia, which will continue to be smaller. Before deciding on your support or not to support this act, I really ask you to imagine and consider for yourself whether it is appropriate to lose the square of the Republic of Slovenia and, in our opinion, even the way out into the open sea for the price of the popularity of a country's supreme leader. As a rule, the national assembly should confirm the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and, once fixed, only then, lay down the rules of the game taking place in this area. This, however, is the only logical and only right way for a legal country based on the preservation of its territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The purpose of this agreement, which is under way again today, at least as I accept it and understand it, should be positive and well-meaning for most well-meaning citizens and citizens of Slovenia. It is clear here that people living along the border, with a little more goodwill from the administrative authorities of one country or another, would not have the problems that are present today. However, this agreement, particularly to a greater extent, is of great benefit to the Republic of Croatia, which, I believe, after its adoption or ratification, if we call it so, especially from the measures taken so far by the Republic of Croatia, will no longer show the least need for the pre-formed border line to be modified in part of Istria and at sea in any way. This patterned border line was also in fact set by one of the Contracting Parties with the 1999 Parliament declaration and it is not necessary to ask whether the efforts of the Croatian Prime Minister Racan are efforts or whether this is a game with a further known result. This result was, of course, already confirmed yesterday in the Parliament's Committee on International Relations. The adoption or ratification of this Agreement results in an irregular order. In any event, it would be necessary to establish a border line first, only after it has been adopted a cooperation agreement on that border. Especially if we are looking at this from the source or structure of the Slovenian state, which, after all, is also based on a fundamental constitutional charter and behaves as such. As a result, this agreement, which I have already mentioned for our site, will be completely different from the establishment of a model border line in Istria at sea, which I have already mentioned, by the Republic of Croatia, will enable this. As a country of Slovenia, we will lose part of the indigenous territory where Slovenians have lived for centuries and live Slovenians and thus lose a new piece of our territory. History so wanted people in this environment - I'm talking about Slovenian Istria - in Istria and at sea over the centuries lived in cohabitation without feeling the border, because it never existed. They also did not have a distinct sense or affiliation of one or the other to the State, as this was not necessary. However, we have decided that we will have a state of our own, we have a state of our own for 10 years, and we need a border in this part. This line or borderline should be such that people around it will not feel that it will not hurt. Just as it is now established, this border will hurt and this agreement will only make it a little easier. What I can understand from the media reporting on the border agreement in Istria at sea means, at least as far as I am concerned, and especially the border on land, the irresponsible action of our negotiators, which is strongly contrary to the spirit of the coastal partisans and even more so with the spirit of all respect for the worthy Rudolph Maister. Dragoja has never been a separation, not an administrative one, not a cadastral one, and even less a national one. If Dragonja becomes a splinter now, she'll be in pain. It was precisely because of the historical fact surrounding the people's stay in the area that some Members wanted to protect the national interest of the State of Slovenia by introducing a resolution on the border in Istria at sea by means of a procedure in the National Assembly, which would allow the State to establish a solid starting point even after the adoption of this agreement, and also in the case of arbitration, which I am fully confident of so that it may be necessary to act as a measure. Regrettably, this resolution was not intended or allowed to be dealt with prior to the adoption and hearing of the Court. For the State of Slovenia, whatever the purpose of the resolution or agreement, its adoption prior to the establishment of the borderline between the States Parties means a sad event, at least that is how I see it. Above all, it is a sad event that this country has not been able to establish its own sovereignty in the indigenous Slovenian territories, not only in Istria and at sea, but also in Hotiza and Razkrisz. I am doing this, regardless of whether someone is mocking me or trying to get involved in a bench, there is no agreement or agreement between certain partners or not a coalition agreement. With this, I do not wish to harm the coalition, nor my client, but at the very least I wish to harm the country as a whole and our craftsmen. I will therefore vote against the resolution with all my conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Dorian Marshic has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have come from an environment that has been awaiting ratification of this agreement for several years, from the Koper municipality, which has, as far as these agreements are concerned, had experience, especially with neighbouring Italy. This makes us all the more, of course, aware of the importance this agreement has for people living at the border. It is not just, of course, the local local communities in the municipality of Koper, but it is about 250,000 people who live and work in one way or another in the border area between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. We, too, wondered why so many years and so much time for Parliament to finally discuss ratification. We also felt from the outside, especially since we were not in Parliament, that there was no political will in Parliament at the time, but today it is, and, of course, we are pleased that it is. I think that all the concerns raised in Parliament in these years have also been removed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. If we focus more on what SOBS actually allows, this is the traffic of persons between border areas. It is intended to improve the ratio of the border population, free economic cooperation, cooperation of border local communities. For us from the coast, it is particularly important that the part that talks about the regulation of border fishing and maritime transport and mariculture, as well as, of course, all those problems, the daily ones that touch health, veterinary, etc. The introduction of border crossings for border traffic, of course, this measure is necessary. Many, not only at our end, we have so-called dead pockets created by the border, and see the case, these are the most underdeveloped areas, both our municipalities and probably elsewhere in Slovenia. These dead pockets are becoming an ever-increasing problem, and if they are not soon resolved, of course, the dissatisfaction at the border will be so great. Also of course, since I come from a tourist area, I am pleased that this agreement will allow for the issuance of tourist licences and allow the creation of tourist zones and, above all, the development of nautical tourism. And what may sometimes be illogical is that this is actually happening, the uninterrupted supply of water, gas, electricity and telecommunications services to the population. All of this, by the way, due to the stifling of countries, is being attempted by local communities at the border either by mutual agreements on cross-border cooperation or by setting up projects on the euro area. We are on our way to Europe, and we also want to be in other military-political integrations. And good and orderly, I will not say interpersonal relations, as Jelinčič had previously slowed down, but they are good made by one relationship between countries, of course from the conditions for faster entry into these economic and military - political integrations. We must show that we are mature to resolve common problems while respecting each other's fundamental national interests. In doing so, do not forget the people I mentioned earlier, who suffer from borders and those in areas that are often forgotten, and who bear their burdens quietly, without much politicization, these people expect us to solve these problems and problems. For their part, I support this agreement and will vote in favour. I think that this Parliament should also ratify this agreement because of the external dignity of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I would point out, in particular, two aspects of this Agreement. The first aspect is the so-called state-of-the-art aspect, which looks at this agreement with the focus of the country as a whole. Another aspect is a purely local aspect, a view of people living along the border and, of course, an aspect that kind of tanges the individual of a small, human being. When we look at this matter through the prism of the country, we are actually having doubts or there is some relationship between this agreement and the border agreement. And here I fully agree with all my predecessors, who said it was a bit unusual to talk about an agreement before we agreed on a border. This is not common and therefore a number of dilemmas are opening up from this title. But I wouldn't talk so much about it, because there's been a lot of talk about it. I come from the municipality myself, and I am also a member of this municipality, which has about 10% of all Slovenian-Croatian borders. In the future, this municipality will also have two border inspection points with the Republic of Croatia of six Slovenians. This is the Municipality of Brežice. I know people well and, of course, the problems of these people living right next to the border. In the past, this is said more than 10 years ago, the borders between these two then republics, Slovenia and Croatia were not in fact felt. People were free to move around, they were employed here, they were living in Croatia, they were working in Slovenia, they were a bunch of two-owners, even such cases are that virtually Slovenian citizens cannot go to Slovenia if they do not go through Croatian territory. And thus, of course, the emergence of a state border between these two countries, among these two potential countries to join the European Union, has also made everyday life very bitter and difficult. And here is the point that in the area, in these areas, there are a lot of two-owners, a lot of people who are bound by the daily crossing of this border, whether they live in Croatia, work in Slovenia, or vice versa, not least in our municipality, we are highly dependent on the community and, of course, also people with their purchasing power from Croatian buyers and, of course, we are somehow economically and thus very closely connected. I am sure that Slovenia's entry into the European Union before Croatia, which will happen, will make the actual position of these border municipalities significantly, significantly worse, precisely with regard to the possibility of crossing the border and, of course, maintaining and connecting new economic contacts, both in the field of tourism and trade. It is in this that I see the fundamental and essential point of this small-border agreement, whose purpose and purpose is to facilitate these people's daily lives and, of course, to enable these people to live a normal life. Because there's a lot of people with a serious state border who have a life that's completely disabled. I know people who need to get out of their home today, get on the Croatian side and, of course, have to go back to Slovenia again. When I analyze this agreement by some advantages, weaknesses, some potential dangers and some potential opportunities, I think that this agreement is for these people to make life easier for these people at the border. And that's why my decision is entirely on the side of these people that I live with every day. And that's why I'm happy to support this agreement. Finally, I also assess that in these difficult times, when the Slovenian government and the Croatian government are negotiating a border on this key strategic Slovenian issue, even in the light of the European Union's convergence, it is very important that we make this gesture of cooperation and readiness to resolve the problems and problems that have arisen. And in this I also see a symbolic note of today's ratification of the small-border agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. I think the National Assembly is today ahead of one very important decision, one of the key decisions of the state of Slovenia from its independence. It is a fact that the ratification of the small-border agreement has, in some way, been employed by this country and by this national assembly for the past four years. At the same time, allow me to make a small comment that the current Parliament or the President of Parliament did not take advantage of that crucial role of Parliament in such important decisions. I am convinced that Parliament at this stage, as in the time dynamic phase, when to accept when the best time for the ratification of SOPS is, of course, also in connection with the agreement on the border as well as the agreement on the Krka nuclear power plant, has failed to fulfil its role to be in full partnership with the government. Here we must somehow follow the Croatian Parliament, where there is, in some ways, a much better coordination, which gives the negotiating group a better position. Finally, allow me to do a lot of information on the Committee and mutual information to be saved so that the opposite negotiating party does not have to give out all our views. I do not think that Parliament has actually done the whole role here. In this regard, I am pleased to announce that the Prime Minister will only join us at 4:30 p.m. and that we will hear in some way firsthand what the actual negotiating venues are and what is the dynamics of accepting at our level a package of documents, as well as on the other hand, on the side of the Republic of Croatia. Arrangements for small-border cooperation between the two countries are certainly necessary. Here I regret that the order was wrong, as has been mentioned many times today. First of all, we should agree on a border, and only then we should follow an agreement on low-border cooperation and transport.First of all, I see the key to all the complications that have occurred all the time in this wrong order. In fact, I am sure that the country of Slovenia has not provided the maximum necessary conditions for people without ratifying a small-border agreement for better living conditions at the border. Here, too, neighbors played a better role in border areas. On the contrary, I am convinced that the key question is not about all the complications of ratification of a small-border agreement, whether the fear of the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of this agreement has been the question, above all, whether, because of the wrong order, ratification, as far as possible, would prejudge the border agreement. If we read, and not just that, in separate opinions of constitutional judges, and if it is cited - I merely quote - the opinion of Dr. Janez Čebulj and Lojzet Janka, who, at the first point of his separate opinion, says - to quote: "But in my opinion, an agreement to do so in an area where there is no agreement on where the border takes place will not contribute to the work in which it relates to the sea, because the border has not been established, and the usefulness of its conclusion from the point of view of the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia, if we are serious about going out into the open sea, it may even be questionable." Indeed, on this opinion, even a separate opinion from the two Constitutional Judges, it is clear that it will not, even in terms of resolution, cooperation and transport in the small border area, if there is no border resolution, contribute to the entire area. That is to say, where the question, of course, is the border issue, there will be questions. Second. Other Constitutional Judges, who have voted that the agreement is not unconstitutional, refer to the fact that there is also the possibility of ratification, prior ratification of the small-border agreement before the border agreement, there is also a possibility of prejudicing the border. Here, allow me only to quote briefly the statement or position of Constitutional Judge Dr. Lukičeva, who says: "The Constitutional Court has judged only in accordance with the agreement, with the Constitution, and has not considered the impact that the adoption of the agreement will have on the negotiating venues." This is perfectly normal, since the Constitutional Court has been asked about the constitutionality of the agreement. Of course, it further argues that such an agreement could have an impact on the negotiating venues with the Republic of Croatia, both on land and on the sea. If I then quote a separate opinion from the Constitutional Judge, Dr Odet, who also says that, above all, I stress my view that the Constitutional Court's opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the Constitution and the basic constitutional instrument does not burden the legislator to assess the disputed agreement from a political point of view, i.e. the position or extent to which the agreement might harm our country in its later determination or determination of the disputed border. It is said that in whole or in majority they are constitutional judges, who are not their task to go to political level, but in some way have informed Parliament that this is a political decision that can also prejudge the establishment of a future border. Here I would actually challenge all those who have already debated today that the essential comment of everyone we have had, even in the past, was the constitutionality of this agreement. No, no, no. The main point was that this agreement could prejudge an agreement on future border regulation. And as we heard yesterday from the assembly rooms, at this moment, this possible compromise did not give the Croatian government a positive opinion. And here I wonder, honourable Members, whether there is no lack of wisdom in this House for the time dynamics of making key decisions in this area. I am convinced that the most correct decision would be package decision-making, as on the side of Slovenia, both on the side of Croatia. Anyone will be excluded from this package decision, in this case, if the neighbouring party is excluded, and we ratify the small-border agreement without other decisions of this Parliament. In fact, colleague Brenčič already said that the Croatian Parliament had clearly adopted that declaration of border in the Piran Bay two years ago. Our Group has also given the opportunity to make a very similar decision and to define our National Assembly as one of the foundations of this National Assembly and a decision, a political decision and a commitment in the event that anyone makes a possible agreement on the resolution of border issues between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Finally, allow me to appeal once again that Parliament have the power to decide on a package of documents, of course in agreement between both sides, both Slovenian and Croatian. Otherwise, I fear that the ratification of a small-border agreement will be of greater benefit to our country when setting the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The implementation of Mr Rokavac has triggered two replicas, first Mr Kacin, then Mr Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President, Vice-President of the National Assembly. I would like to object to the part of the debate of the distinguished colleague Rokavac, in particular in the part where he says that the National Assembly did not deal with relations with Croatia. This is a gross misstatement and this statement is incorrect. I understand that Members coming from the central part of Slovenia, or even from the geometric centre, are not interested in border issues, but colleague Rokavec is sitting between two mayors who are at the border and before him are sitting two members of the Committee on Foreign Policy from the Slovenian People's Party, I apologize, SLS + SKD - Slovenian People's Party. The Committee has taken relations with the Republic of Croatia seriously on several occasions. And if anyone cared that we were seriously involved in bilateral relations here, it was Dr. Franz was entangled in the previous reference, not only in the national assembly, but also in the government, and his views were principled and contributed to the formation of our relationship to these issues. Therefore, it seems to me that, in some ways, it is unfair after so many months of discussions on ratification to talk about the fact that we have not dealt with relations with Croatia. We have taken our relations with the Republic of Croatia very seriously. Therefore, allow me, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, to really object to the ease of such discussions in the National Assembly. That, I'm sorry, is simply not true! You may find this to be interesting, you may find it interesting to discuss it here, but this is also a reflection of reflection in the National Assembly. And for this statement, excuse me, Comrade Rokavec, there is neither a reflection nor a historical truth, but what is simply an imagination - and this is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In my reply, I would like to protest the way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is interpreted, as well as separate binding or negative opinions. That's not what this is about. You have to read the whole thing and then come out of it what this whole thing is talking about. If individual sentences are read, they are, of course, read in a completely different way than if the integrity of opinions and decisions is read. And it is not as Mr. Rokavec interprets himself, but of course I allow the possibility of him interpreting himself. And each of us has this right to interpret; but the truth is that the Constitutional Court has decided that this act and its 1st article, which has been challenged, are not inconsistent with the Constitution and the fundamental constitutional charter. Everything else is part of the policy, and I agree with that, but we have not asked the political opinion of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has taken the right to warn us that we will decide politically in the final stage, but we all know that we are politicians, that the National Assembly is the highest political body of the state and that all decisions in this House are political. It's nothing new, and we all know it. And that every decision, however, is subject to judgement and reflections "for" and "against". That's not new either. The package treatment of all three agreements would, of course, mean that this agreement on small-border cooperation would probably not be for a long time, as the procedure that is today is a pre-government procedure. The matter will be followed by Parliament for consideration and where it can be easy to deal with equally difficult - on the one hand and on the other - both agreements: a nuclear power plant agreement. And that's what's going to happen. I recall that the Constitutional Court, in part of the decision, notes that we had an undetermined maritime border between Yugoslavia and Italy with a visual agreement, but we have introduced a regime of small-border transport and cooperation between Italy and Yugoslavia, from which we have benefited or benefited mainly the inhabitants at the border with Italy. So there is no doubt that we can do the same, and I am sure that we will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I will replicate both honourable fellow Members. First of all, Mr. Kacin. In fact, my position was in this sense that, since I was talking about a package solution to the problem, there was a observation or observation in this sense and an observation that, as a committee on foreign policy, as a national assembly, no matter what the new law on external matters, he invited governments, representatives of the government and the Prime Minister, as on the neighbouring side of Croatia, to be aware of the starting points and agreements on the border. I think it would also be very important because of the decision we have today in Parliament. And regardless of the fact that the Committee on Foreign Policy is not explicit under the law on external matters for this work - it does not explicitly impose on it. And second of all, Mr. Auschwitz. Look, the Constitutional Court gave an opinion, not a decision. And second. The paradox of all this has been told many times today. In fact, those you knew and never objected to the fact that the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia on border traffic and cooperation is unconstitutional have submitted this initiative for the assessment and assessment of constitutionality. Here, many constitutional judges are also asking themselves about this logic of this opinion. But I have previously explicitly said that, more than the constitutional question of this law, there has always been doubt that this decision, because it was a wrong timetable or order of negotiation, which has been said here many times and said today, can prejudge the determination of the border. We know that it is essential for Slovenia to have free access to international waters on the high seas. This is a key - one of the strategic tasks of the state of Slovenia and in this was a key fear. Of course, in some way, the Motivators for the assessment of the opinion, even through a constitutional assessment - this could have been used in this direction to marginalise itself. Indeed, then - yes, because the agreement is established, but, of course, we know how many times the state of Slovenia has lost its territory, and it was nothing unconstitutional, but political steps have been taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. First there's a replica of Mr. Kacin, then Mr. Ashitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm obliged to replicate a respected colleague who responded to my replica for several reasons. Above all, I will say again because it pains me to have such an ease of debate and this perplexation, which we are witnessing for hours and hours. Today's meeting began with an opening act by the Minister, after the same parliamentary group took the time to learn new facts. I don't know who introduced you or who didn't introduce you. But to talk about not knowing what's in the package is simply the most beautifully said scheming. I could've used harder words. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, there was coalition coordination, a coalition lunch. The president of your party was sitting there, the leader of your group was at lunch there. What they didn't tell you there, you can make a deal with each other. I know what they told you there. If opposition parties, Nova Slovenija and the Social Democratic Party know what this is about, then what you are now playing is pure sedition. The demand for the Prime Minister to come and say something you have heard several times is a legitimate request. But on my part, I'm telling you, it's unnecessary. That's why I'm answering that part of your debate - the package. Whoever wants everything or nothing gets nothing. If you want the package, you'll never have it. Slovenia has always chosen, before its historical responsibility, instead of a pack of sparrows in hand and has therefore progressed. This is what we did in the Briony, so we did when we had to change the constitution because of the accession status and sometimes onward. It is therefore perfectly legitimate for you to advocate a package to charge for the sky. But it's devastating, and those who storm the sky don't usually get there. That's your problem. But such a way of discussing needlessly burdens the national assembly and, of course, us in the eyes of the observers of work, forgive us, dishonest. And that's not good for the National Assembly. If that's good for you, it's your calculation. But I apologize for having to tell you so directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. First things first. Mr. Auschwitz, then Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you. I will not replicate either, for the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitution itself specify who has the right and how to request the Constitutional Court's opinion in the event of the ratification of international treaties, and let Comrade Rokavec read it there or in opinions that are also written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Each of us knows what an important issue we are deciding today. And all of us have the right to demand all available information and views that are important for us, as individuals, to decide as a collective. In this respect, I merely recall Mr Kacin's position that the committee responsible has dealt with the issue of ratification on several occasions and with a very extensive level. In addition, it was necessary to assess at which point of cooperation between the government and the Parliament, which have every power, both in the conduct of the negotiations and in the conclusion and ratification of those negotiations, it was necessary to strengthen. I don't think 100 meetings at the wrong time can replace a meeting that comes at the right time. I think today was a meeting at 9 a.m., which was of an informal nature and was linked to the question of border negotiations, a proper meeting at the right time that Minister Rupel gave the information that was necessary and important for us to decide whether or not to continue this meeting today and with this question. The fact that the Prime Minister has accepted our invitation to come before the National Assembly and to speak today, even though he does not need to do so under the rules of procedure, shows that we are all aware of these decisions together and that all the conditions for us to take them responsible are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I've got three more applications for the replica. First Mr Pece, then Mr Podobnik and Mr Brenčič. You signed up for the replica, too. Thank you very much. You're withdrawing? Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In short, I would like to refer to my colleague Kacin, who surprised me with his failure when he attacked his fellow Member, Rokavac, who presented his view. Allow us to have our views in the National Assembly. My friend Rokavec spoke honestly. My colleague, Rukavec, did not cheat, and he did not speak out of ease. I know him too well, and I know I would never do that. Please, fellow Members and colleagues, do not tell us that we have proposed a 20-minute recess today on such an important issue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to discuss this issue in the Group of Members. But if that's unnecessary, then I really don't know. The President of the National Assembly also called for the use of all the means in force in such decision-making - and the key way is to make as much information as possible. In the parliamentary group, we also very much welcome the Prime Minister's decision to come between us and give us his report on all these issues. And to be very honest, we heard very important information this morning during our work interview, not in the beginning, but in the tenth hour, important information came in, not at nine o’clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. First Mr. Brenčič, then Mr. Pahor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, with this fairly ritualised cynic underestimation that Kacin said at the expense of Mr Rokavac - it doesn't matter whether it's Mr Rokavec or anyone, Mr Kacin knows how to hurt a man very well - he would just say that. When I, as first-signed, prepared a resolution to be discussed in the National Assembly with the sole purpose of giving my own vote for ratification, I prepared some material. And a little while ago, although Kacin was not then respected as Chairman of the Committee on International Relations, this committee on international relations under eminent names, which today was President of the National Assembly, Foreign Minister and so on, adopted some positions and conclusions that are far more radical than this package, which Mr Rokavec spoke about. But then it got lost because time was different. Mr. Jelinčič has kept his integrity. Now, Mr. Kacin said to me one day, when my wish was, of course, that the matter of the resolution would also be glass, "When you are aware of what the border agreement brings, this agreement will be so favourable to the state of Slovenia, "fall on your ass." I've really fallen on my ass, and with this package, I'm gonna fall on my ass twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Well, since Comrade Podobnik is himself, I think, confirmed my opinion that we were sitting at the right time. Yesterday this information, Comrade Podobnik, would not be possible to have. The information that had an important impact on our decision was the view that the Croatian government is considering this agreement today. This decision would not have been made yesterday, and it did not make sense for the leaders of the parliamentary groups to consult informally. You know, in particular, the main representatives of the Group of Members, that we have been talking a lot lately about when it would be appropriate to convene a meeting at which we would make the right decision at the right time. And today, at nine o'clock, there was a meeting like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Pahori wants to be replicated by Mr. Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I thought Mr Rokavac's debate was very fair and frank. In short, think as he said. It seems unfair to me to speak of certain fellow Members who would actually like to prevent this and not allow it. I also agree with Mr Rokavac that the National Assembly has not discussed sufficiently the issue of relations with Croatia. The Committee on International Relations is part of the National Assembly. I think there's a much broader gregariousness here, and there are some people here who think otherwise. That's what you need to look at. The fact is that the Croatian Parliament has discussed matters with Slovenia at least four to five times more than Slovenia has discussed relations with Croatia. As a result, the results are similar. The Croats will profit, we'll lose. As colleague Pahor said today Mr Minister has come and he has given us some information that should change everything and it should be all right - I cannot agree to this. How can I believe in the Minister: because everything is fine, it is wonderful, we will accept today, Croatia will sign today, both governments will ratify, everything will be resolved. Nothing is going to be solved, ma'am. Nothing will be resolved and the problems of border areas will not be solved, it will only start and start in the relationship between Slovenia and Croatia, as it will start in the relationship of Slovenia-Western Europe or Slovenia-European Union. We are only here at the beginning, and I believe that Mr Brenčič, as he said, will fall on his ass, but not only twice, I think at least ten more times.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Valentin Pohorec has also been announced for the debate. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The border between Slovenia and Croatia just happened 10 years ago. At the border, people were unprepared because there was a day, a moment to her, and then they lived free, free, each on their own side and with each other, as this was normal in a common country. Living along an unregulated border, with unresolved issues, is, of course, a problem for those who live there and warn and urge us to resolve this once in our power or under our jurisdiction. Living along the border, which is regulated, where relations between countries are arranged, can be pleasant, can be good, can move here and there, sometimes no one controls you anymore, you step across the border, you talk to people, you walk on your land on the other hand, or on the other hand, it is something completely different. That's the line we've had with the northern neighbor for over 50 years. We established such relations when there was an iron curtain between the East and the West when they were at the border where we traveled, otherwise with difficulty, wire fences and minefields. We have seen this many times in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, where we have taken the path. Thus, in these cold international relations, one neighbor and I were able to resolve. I expect that today, in the third millennium, we can agree here today to do something similar with neighbouring Croatia. This is our task, our duty, our right. Our duty is primarily to those who live there, who have problems with this limit, with the inadequacy that this is a life’s problem. It's ten years from what this line has come to. It must have been a ten-year effort to make things right, but it wasn't a success. As we have information, the question of the final determination of the border with Croatia is being dealt with rapidly today and some of the information that has been given to us here by the Minister is being inspired or inspired, perhaps not - or at least satisfied that we will have these matters finally resolved. I believe that, despite these concerns which have yet to be adopted, this agreement must be adopted and people at the border must somehow resolve these problems that they have. If I compare them with life at our northern border, where I live alone, where I can move freely and all that, then I think we have to do it once. While the government and the minister assure us that it is not a matter of establishing a state border with this agreement, but of living at the border. If this is true - and I have no reason not to believe - then I am in favour of adopting this agreement. I believe that this will also be a small step in Europe without borders, in Europe with an international and interstate co-existence, where we want and judge that we will no longer return to that past and talk so much about the borders that have been here and there, at least for the Slovenian nation, are certainly also guilty. The border can also be a source of co-existence, mutual respect, cooperation among nations and I think that is what Slovenians and Croats want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Well, it was a strong desire for co-existence, cooperation, fraternity and unity that reminded me of some kind of speech that Mr. Pohorec may have had 25 years ago at some other convention, and it certainly doesn't belong in this circle here today. And when he was talking about a good life waiting for our residents at the border, he would have remembered it, but maybe if he had forgotten, yesterday was a reflection, and today at eight o'clock in the morning they were repeating them, and there were people of Slovenia who would come to the Croatian side, all without exception, crying and begging not to put them on the Croatian side. Maybe Mr. Pohorec doesn't know the geography? I don't know. And even when he was talking about wire fences, I have to remind him that although he was probably in a previous regime in some position, he should know that Yugoslavia was not in the Warsaw Pact at the time and was not surrounded by wire fences, such as - say - the Czech border with Austria. That's the difference. It was quite different, as you say. And a step into a Europe without borders - I don't know what you mean. Perhaps you do not know that Europe is preparing the Schengen Agreement or in some parts of the Schengen Agreement already in force when you talk about a Europe without borders, about a friendship without borders, about mutual co-existence. Please! In medicine, this kind of thing is declared otherwise or in psychiatry, but I'm not going to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Mr. Jelinčič, I'm really sorry. I've been following your replica very closely. Of course, you have the right to disagree with your colleagues in the hall, but you really have no right to make fun of them. So I ask you politely to express your disagreement in a more human-friendly way. Mr Pohorec has the replica first, then Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	My replica will only be that I won't replicate at all. Who else would you want? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. If it is a bad thing that someone was in the former regime in position, then I apologize to Mr Pohorec - if this is a bad thing. Because some of the other colleagues here have been in the former regime in certain positions, and that doesn't hurt them to remember that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The panellists who agreed to the debate and had more than 5 minutes at their disposal said so. The discussion of possible debaters is now limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Cheligoy has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. So I'd like to give everyone here some thoughts about my decision, even though I may resent Mr. Jelinčič. I will vote in favour; to ratify the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia on border cooperation and transport. This is my duty to my fellow citizens, the inhabitants of the border villages of the Snow White from the source of the river River, the Jelshan Valley, to Chicharia and across. I come from a border area and tell all Members about the high expectations of the population at this border, which already looks forward to the adoption of this agreement. 10 years ago, the state border was livelyly cut into space and people who lived together in this area for centuries and created a varied, active, cultural and economic life under given conditions. I can list many examples of fruitful cooperation here between the living Slovenians and Croats, who have also worked together to build joint ties, invested in economic facilities and have shared in the benefits of natural heritage on one side or the other of today's borders. All of this has been seriously stalled or has been completely interrupted by the independence of both countries, which does not tolerate any healthy logic and cannot be in the interest of Slovenia and not Croatia. I am sure that this agreement will re-create as many normal relations at the border as it will convince people from both sides of the border that both countries, Croatia and Slovenia, support and leave them alone. I call on my fellow Members to follow these wishes and expectations of the border population and vote in favour of ratification, as I will do myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Sok took the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I have listened carefully to the debates of all the debaters and I understand, personally I understand, the concerns of those who may be concerned about the adoption of this Agreement. True too, there are certain reasons for this concern. I certainly don't understand Mr Rokavac's debate as an easy diversion, but as a debate between one of the 90's. Personally, I wonder if, at this moment, we can do better for you than the Slovenian Parliament at the borders of the living population, 250 000 Slovenians and Slovenes, than we have here on the table right now. We have heard and know how this has happened and I am also coming from an area that borders directly on neighbouring Croatia - in the Ormož municipality we have about 47 kilometers of state borders - and I must say that once people in this area lived freely, passed our citizens to Croatia and Croatia to Slovenia, participated in all areas, in cultural, economic, political, religious, and I do not know what else. Then came 1990, there was a war for Slovenia, at these border crossings along the country's green border we set up barricades. Unfortunately, I have to say that these barricades, those concrete cubes and the iron structures are still standing there after 10 years, in the summer they are overgrown by grass, in the winter, when the grass is gone, they are seen, and people are having a lot of trouble crossing the border today. In the past, there have been many dual-ownerships: our people have fields, forests, vineyards on the Croatian side, Croatia with us. It is true, however, that many properties have changed over the past ten years. Why did they switch? They exchanged simply because people had problems crossing the border. Sometimes they worked better with the Croatian police, sometimes worse, they tied up with some cops, then replaced the police, and others came, and these, I'd say, continued the tortures of the population, increased, led many times to incidents. Many of our people are needless - I can tell you - ended up in the courts in Čakovec, Varaždin, because they got them on parcels in Croatia where they were cutting in the woods, and the other way around was also happening with us. I wonder if after ten years all this is actually necessary in this country. We're saying we're going to Europe, to Europe without borders, and I think it's time to help these people in some way. In fact, I must say that as a Member of this Parliament, I really would not want to do anything that would harm this country in the long term. I am waiting for the Prime Minister to come and answer some questions here, to hear him live and to ask him questions. It would be really good if these things could be resolved in the package, but I believe those who say - and we can make sure ourselves - that this is not possible at this point. At this point, it is possible to accept what we have before us. And given that this agreement states that this agreement is only adopted for three years, it is clear that Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss the extension of the agreement or the adoption of a new agreement. Given that the Constitutional Court has also found and that the agreement itself states that this agreement does not prejudge the state border, I believe in the Constitutional Court and will make it easier for me to decide. So, at least I'll decide not to object to this agreement. However, I would like to point out some errors to proposers who are likely to begin preparing a new agreement immediately after the adoption of this agreement. I have before me a table showing the border villages to be covered by this Agreement. So I'm just going to give you one example because I don't know any other congregations and the Ormož Congregation as far as I know. Here they are together, say, two villages, one called Lower Klavarovci, one called Upper Klavarovci Lower Klavarovci in the agreement are covered, Upper Klavarovci in the agreement is not covered, although villages are side by side. And it will be difficult to explain to people that the villagers of one village belong to this small-scale agreement, the other not. When I went to watch, I realized that the Upper Klutarovci were less than 8 kilometers from the state border. Maybe I could list some other villages. I hope so. [[End warning sign]] - I will finish right away - I hope that in these three years there will be enough time for any of the matters under this agreement to be rectified by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Replicate? Mr. Auschwitz, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	A brief explanation to Mr. Sok. I agree with him. I have also pointed out in my debate that there are certain shortcomings and probably these are in several parts of Slovenia, but at the same time I have pointed out that our interest must be to confirm this agreement as quickly as possible, to establish a mixed commission that will be able to start work immediately and address the comments of individual local communities, as the agreement also incorporates the principle that amendments to the agreement can be made within these three years - even earlier - to the parliaments of one country and another, of course, provided that the Mixed Commission will deal with it and make a positive decision. So this is not a concrete matter for three years, but it can be handled much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Well, Mr Ašić would only say so much that he did not need to replicate me to apply to the debate and that he would tell the applicants. I could have warned myself of more mistakes in this agreement if I had the time. That way, I don't know why he'd replicate it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The explanation was that, Mr. Auschwitz. Mr. Gasparini, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I thank Mr. Sok, because he's the only one, except for those who spoke of the Constitutional Court, who moved from the coast, and he went north somewhere, and the rest of you were all "moved" around Dragonja and around the maritime border. Of course, I will support this agreement myself, I have been working for him for the past six, seven years, and I think it's swindling now, in five minutes, that you want to know something new, if you know -- I think we've had him in the rapporteur for seven years. Mr. Brenčič would like to ask you a question. Where does this agreement say that we will resign to the Republic of Croatia one square metre of territory? If you find this for me, then I can believe what it says in here, but I don't see it. And I think that statements like the claims that we're going to lose some salts and so on are not in place. I think that you who live a little far from the border can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't assess how we live, who go through one and the other every day. I don't speak for myself because I can go, nobody asks me anything. And one more thing! We also have a small-border agreement with Italy. I have a pass, and it's my greatest pleasure not to be able to go to Sofia, but I'm going to Blues or - I don't know - to some other little border crossings. And thank God, no one even asks me about the pass, for nothing, because they know I have a KP car and then I'm going across. I think it's for one side and the other. What will Croatia get more than Slovenians, and I don't know that. I don't understand this because he's going to take the salad across the border on one side or on the other - as he pleases. It's true that customs don't know how to tax him or ask him. So, I'm interested in where this square meter of land is, but with a small-border agreement, Croatia will get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am not such an accurate acquaintance of this agreement, but, Mr Gasparini, I think you have come into a contradiction with what is currently going on between these two countries, which is being negotiated by Prime Minister Drnovšek. Indeed, it has always been said that compromises are needed and that if we want to get out of the sea, the international sea will also have to compromise what to do. This can be in the interests of the State - and the land border will be improved in this regard. This can be in the interests of the state and in principle I am not against compromises being made. But we are in a difficult situation today. We do not know whether the Croats will sign or confirm this agreement on border matters in the government. As long as we don't actually have such assurances, we are also in big trouble in this - in my opinion. Previously, it was said that we would have a significantly better situation if this agreement were ratified years ago. As far as I understand our negotiators, who, although very quickly, started bragging and useless or from a negotiating position, were very clumsy, and this agreement, which was not ratified, helped a little bit. For through this they have been able to prove that the Slovenian public is sensitive, that they do not accept any matter and that they will not accept it if it goes to too much harm for our country. Compromise yes, but not at any cost. Surely we also had to give up some square meter in these negotiations. But the question is, we don't know if we're on some balance or if it went to our detriment -- that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Breničič also wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Comrade Mario, it's been a while since I've had the debate, but well, you've changed your mind. First of all, that I, as non-lives in this area of Istria or the Slovenian coast, should not intervene in the debate on this. Mario, I don't know, and Rudolf Maister was an Inner, he felt a call, and he went to Styria. That's why we don't deal with him negatively. As far as I am concerned, I have only said that the adoption of this Agreement will have the effect of nothing of any particular enthusiasm on the part of the Party to the Republic of Croatia to continue to establish the border line, because the border line has already been set for them. The third paragraph of Article 1 shall, however, indicate what the border area at sea is. And it says exactly: the border area is that sea area over which the Contracting Party has established sovereignty. Just as sovereignty is now established; that is to say, we are losing half the Bay of Piranhas, we are losing all three settlements. Is that right? If we bring this to the border that exists now, and given the relationship that was shown yesterday by the Parliamentary Committee, the matter is quite clear. You can just answer the square meter yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	I was talking about small-scale traffic. I'm not talking about the border. Here I agree Yes, yes, you have to listen. [[...]] So, I agree with you that compromises are needed - and our Prime Minister is probably aware of that, as well as the others in Zagreb. That's how we're even. As far as it is concerned, Mr Brenčič - each of us can discuss it. Thank God we're sitting here representing Slovenia. But you have to specify exactly what. That assembly declaration you're referring to and that third point -- you're right. It says here: the middle. But ever since then, I think there's been a change in tides and tides in the Gulf of Piran.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Mr. Gasparini! This argument at such an important time that you say, "I was talking about small-border traffic, but I didn't mean the limit" I don't accept. At this point, we all need to think about the border and the border agreements. I am not saying that we must not ratify or oppose this agreement! But above all, we must be bound by the idea of how we will protect our long-term strategic interests in some way. We can see that the Croats are much more skilled. Our negotiators boasted at a time when they had nothing to brag about. Minister Kopac boasted that he did not see a bad point in the nuclear power plant agreement. Of course, last night, Croatia picked up that agreement with both hands. And if he's not perfect, they'll throw him away. And then it could be a disaster! I hope everything goes wrong. But don't talk here, I don't care, fellow Members, that you say you don't see any bad points. You mean the Slovenian negotiating position! The agreements haven't been signed yet! And don't brag! We don't have anything in our hands yet! You're all preconceived, bragging, I don't know what we've got. I'm not gonna believe it. I'm gonna be here in this area, infidel Tomaž, until I see the signature on paper! Until then, however, every negative act is possible. And let's be careful and not brag, and I don't know what and I don't know what we've missed! If this hadn't been ratified, it must have been in favor of our negotiating position. I think our ministers would make that clear, too. And the question is, at what point do we now have to raise our hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anyway, I don't think it's good that we're talking about a border agreement because we don't have a border agreement because we don't have one; we don't have a nuclear agreement because we haven't seen one. And let us wait for the time when it will be presented to us and when it will come to Parliament on a regular basis. Today we are really talking about an agreement on small-border cooperation, and this is the basis of our debate and it will probably be only in this direction that we will adopt a law or, of course, not what kind of decision it will be, on small-scale cooperation and transport between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia. Of course, Mr Jerovšek said: Croatia has adopted an agreement on nuclear power with both hands. They haven't accepted anything yet, that's one thing, it has to be said, that it was just a preconceived summation of opinions. And secondly, I would like to remind you, Mr Jerovšek, and of course all of us who sat in this Parliament also in the previous mandate, what we did after we promised Croatia - I have written this - that we will ratify the agreement on small-border cooperation and an agreement on property law. And what have we done in this House? We supported the asset agreement because we have estimated that Slovenia has so much property in Croatia that it is one of the important problems that Parliament must resolve. This agreement, which is supposed to serve, as we have repeatedly pointed out today, has stopped people on both sides of the border from being accepted. And sometimes we need to ask ourselves how we act when we have two things, one of which may benefit more than the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I believe in your good purpose, Mr. Azhish, but I do not accept the logic of pouring ashes here. Today it was stated, exactly, on the foreign policy committee that the Croats did not ratify one agreement, which did not fit them, even though we accepted it - on economic cooperation. And let's not get in with the ashes that we're worse than our partners! The negotiations are very tough and we will also be firm in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Ashish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Mr Jerovšek may be poured with ashes, but let him speak for himself; I did not intend to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Kebrich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened very carefully to the debaters as well as to the replicas. That is why I have now decided to give my opinion on why I accept and will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. I live near the border myself, and I'm very sorry that many people talk about the border, but you don't know that the border area is something completely different than the border. It is not determined by a meter from a borderline, but by political and other economic and cultural, ethnographically determined. I live in Maribor, on the left bank of town - suburb Kamnica belonged to a small border area and they had this pass. The ruins, where I was born, lie on the right bank of Drava, far farther from the borderline, yet the inhabitants had a small border pass. A small-border agreement saves people, does not resolve borders, this is what the Constitutional Court has made clear and let's stop the debates, because we are wasting time, we are smiling at citizens, we are discussing what we are discussing, because it is not on the agenda of the borders, but it is a small-border agreement, which is precisely defined - which villages, which cities. My fellow Member, Auschwitz, said well: if this agreement were already in place, many of the inhabitants of all the comments they will have could have been rectified long ago through this commission if they feel that something is wrong at a certain border. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	For a moment, I would like to say to my distinguished fellow Member, Mr Kebrich, that I do not know why he understands that this is a smile before the people. After all, the Slovenian people cannot even watch us, nor is it possible for - say - Slovenian television to broadcast one such important debate. During this time they can watch the Croatian Parliament, but they cannot watch their Slovenian Parliament. So, please, it's not so easy to understand that we're smiling when we're talking and we're just giving our opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. A brief replica of colleague Kebrich. Indeed, it is true that Article 59 of this Agreement speaks - because it is explicitly stated that the agreement does not prejudge the determination and marking of the State border between the Parties in any way. But the agreement cannot, in fact, be avoided and cannot be avoided by determining who exercises power in the border area. Where it will enter into force not before the final agreement, if the national assembly had adopted this document, before the law on the ratification of a small-border agreement, in the event that there was no agreement between the two Parties concerning the establishment of a border, this could be one of the difficult circumstances. That's the fear, Mr. Kebrich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich has the replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Very short, Mr. Sok. Don't get me wrong if I used the word "smile." People know - those who read or listen - what the agenda item is - a small-scale agreement. All the repetition of the prejudication of the border and everything else has been over and in this sense people who have called me think how many times you are moving away from the main agenda point when certain Members or Members come with other principles, with circumstances that are not the subject of the agenda item. We could be - and I get these comments and I carry them - much more rational if we did not, for the first time, repeat so much, secondly, distance ourselves from the central content of the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. I have been obliged to explain to the Slovenian National Party's Group the amendment they have tabled, withdraw one and secondly replace it with an amendment to the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement. They addressed it: Amendments to Article 2 and, however, intervened further in the text of the agreement as they continued: a new second paragraph is added to Article 59, i.e. the Agreement. The amendment is irrelevant because it continues to interfere with the content of the agreement. However, the contents of the agreement cannot be amended because changes, as you know, require a special procedure, which is laid down in the law on external matters and of course by the body, this is the executive authority, while concluding the agreement, implementing it in accordance with this law. Your Honor! Dear Member Group! This would allow you to submit an amendment only to the law on ratification, since it is only so referred to in Article 213. Let me quote him. "With regard to the consideration of the proposal for a law on ratification and amendments to the article of the law on ratification" - honourable Mr. Jelinčič, not to the agreement - "the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on rapid procedure shall apply." Therefore, we should only table amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and 4. You have tabled an amendment to Article 2, but the content of the amendment to the agreement is unacceptable, which is why your amendment is irrelevant and therefore cannot be addressed by the National Assembly for this reason, as I have explained it now. Mr. Jelinčič, do you object to my argument that the amendment is irrelevant? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You said you can't change the text of the agreement or the law or I don't know what you were going to say, because that's not true at the very beginning. As the letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia of 18 June 2001 amends the text already on the Croatian side of the ratified agreement. In the third paragraph of Article 11, where it adds: "This right must be indicated in the agricultural cartridge." After you have explained, something is allowed to the Ministry and Members are not allowed to do so. The Latins called it "Quod facet hunts, non-hypty bots" or translate it or not, I'd rather not, because you'll say I'm sorry. But this is a Latin proverb that they invented -- not coalition partners, but someone else, but a lot smarter. The Slovenian national party strongly opposes such thinking and such behaviour of the Slovenian Government and the leadership of the Slovenian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are very exact in its 213th and in its 204th articles, where nothing is said, which of the articles may be amended or which may not be amended. And if we look at the amendment tabled, it writes, as prescribed by the law: an amendment to the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation. And it goes on and on and on. Amendment to Article 2. What does that mean? This means that this amendment must be voted on and then rejected. However, it is necessary to vote on this amendment if you do not want to violate those legal provisions or acts adopted by the National Assembly on its business, or if we are already so far away that this will happen. I don't think the National Assembly can afford such a procedure. But if you're afraid to even vote on it, then I don't know what you're doing here in the National Assembly. I have always expected people to be in here if they are not already working for the Slovenian benefit, that at least fear does not tell them why they are doing or what their opinion is. But if that's illegal, then I don't know. I'm done with this for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Since Mr Jelinčič, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, objects to my explanation of the immateriality of the amendment and has also presented in his explanation only the first part, but has not continued with the work which is essential, this means that the new second paragraph is added to Article 59, which means that the amendment interferes with the agreement, I will, as chair in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, as you are not satisfied with my explanation and why the amendment is irrelevant, ask the National Assembly to decide on this issue without discussion and without explanation of vote. Its explanation that the amendment you have on the bench, of 28 June 2001, is, for reasons which are not tabled in accordance with Article 213 of the Law on Ratification, but is more of an infringement of the text of the Agreement, which is inadmissible, irrelevant. I give this explanation to the honourable assembly for the vote and there is also no debate on the vote and without explanation of vote in accordance with Article 70. [[The voice from the bench.]] Whether my explanation was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will be decided by the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the president's explanation, i.e. me, received the support of the National Assembly. Therefore, the amendment is irrelevant and will not be discussed or decided. Would you like a procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will quote the second paragraph of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: 'If a Member requests a word to draw attention to a mistake or to correct a statement which, in his view, is incorrect and has caused a misunderstanding or a need for a personal explanation, the President shall give him the word as soon as he so requests.' I've asked for it before, you haven't given it to me, so I've used the same second paragraph of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure now. Now I'm wondering if I can talk or if I can't talk. Is the Rules of Procedure still in force or no longer in force?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Mr. Jelinčič, if you'll excuse me. You wanted a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	report a violation of the rules of procedure to me. [[...]] Let's just work things out, make sure there's no misunderstanding, and that these eyewitnesses won't just happen to be justified. It's not that: you're the one who tabled the amendment. My assessment was that the amendment was irrelevant. You insisted by quoting the rules of procedure that we should vote on it. I made this explanation clear, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 70, which is clear, and your explanation was clear, and put it to the vote of the National Assembly. The rules of procedure were also clear in this way, and I saw your hand, but I said that the question that I had put to the national assembly for the vote was not debated and should not even be explained to the vote. And at this stage, honourable Mr Jelinčič, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I was not obliged to give you my word. Now you have asked for the floor to make a procedural proposal. If we understand each other, according to the content, your procedural proposal is not to give you an unjustifiably word, which I have just explained. If you would like to continue and make another procedural proposal, please do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President, for allowing me to speak, because I think that this time of five minutes will have passed, even though you spoke only to me - you did not allow me to say what I wanted to say. But first of all, I wanted to say that the 70th paragraph is made up of two paragraphs, and I have quoted you as the second paragraph, by which I have the right to draw attention to the error. Actually, it's a mistake. The mistake is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has changed the text after Croatia has ratified this agreement, while we - you say, Members - have no right to change. This is a double criterion and this is the error that we are drawing attention to in the Slovenian National Party. In fact, it is anti-Slovakia action, which will show up in time. And it is clear and understandable to us that, in the event that, as you have received the task of carrying out the ratification of this Agreement, you will do everything, even violate the Rules of Procedure and, if necessary, violate the Constitution. It is not said that fellow Members, colleagues and me from the Slovenian national party, when we go out, will not wait for any more of Slovenia's intelligence services, but will take us to a hearing or to convince and change the starting points.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, allow me, second paragraph of Article 70 - first of all, we are always obliged to resolve the first procedural complication that has arisen to us. We saved him by voting on the National Assembly. In this regard, allow further clarification that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore treated the changes it has made differently from our Members. The correction of technical errors in the text of the Agreement is in accordance with point B of the first paragraph and paragraph 79 of the Vienna Convention on Contractual Law, and both sides were in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for explaining to these eyes. Mr Jelinčič, I would like to conclude here because I have given you an explanation on this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Madam President, you did not give me an explanation because it is not a technical correction, but a matter of substantive corrections. In such a case, the Vienna Convention also allows for amendments, if adopted in a given Parliament, also allows for the amendment of an already ratified agreement if the other Party agrees. And that's it. And you don't even allow a debate on these things at the very beginning. And that's the shortening of democracy! And that's what we're supposed to be fighting for here, that there'll be a democratic debate, that there'll be a conflict of opinion, and that we'll make it a good thing for Slovenia. Now it seems that some do only good for their pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My last explanation. Both parties that had concluded an agreement and were responsible for it were in agreement that such corrections, as I mentioned earlier, should be made. Your Honor! Given that we have concluded the debate and have agreed to be joined by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek, I am adjourning the meeting until his arrival. Then, at 5 p.m., we resume work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. First, we'll figure out the conclusion, the presence in the hall. Please insert the soycard and notify your presence. Comrade Bevk, you can get my card, please. Thank you very much. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 53 or more present than required by the quorum for decision-making. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. The National Assembly concluded its discussion on the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation. He decided that he would listen to the performance by Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšk, who joined the House of State, and I welcome him among us and at the same time invite the Prime Minister to speak to the National Assembly. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for inviting me to come to you and meet you again. Today, the Slovenian Government has examined two important documents, draft nuclear agreements in Krske and border agreements with the Republic of Croatia. Draft agreement, of course. It adopted the relevant conclusions on the initialisation of this draft and the initiation of the procedure in the national assembly. The Croatian government did the same today. A bad hour ago, they also concluded this debate today and adopted a similar opinion on both documents. So, this has been completed at the government level, as I would say, a 10-year border negotiations with Croatia and therefore before us is a procedure for dealing with both parliaments, ratification of both agreements. This debate is in some ways connected, not formally and directly, but in the debates so far, many times with the agreement on small-border cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, which you are considering today. I estimate that there are no more reasons, nor are there any constitutional reasons that have been exposed for some time, nor are there any other or negotiating reasons why the National Assembly today would not ratify a small-border agreement. On the contrary, it is now more than a good time and probably also a time for the national assembly to do so and to ratify the small-border agreement with Croatia. Right now, when we have reached an important point in resolving our relations, this seems even more important to me than to establish and continue to create a positive spiral in solving our problems between the two countries. I estimate that setting a border and a border agreement is crucial for the country, for its sovereignty, for its final deployment on the map, for its stability and for its security. The framework for defining the border and negotiating with the Republic of Croatia was the Constitutional Act of 1991, which stipulated that the border established was valid, which was in force on 25.6.1991, when both countries became independent. So our mandate, which we had, was to define this border line in agreement, to define it where there were issues or points of dispute, and we have now fulfilled this mandate, in my opinion. We did not have a mandate to correct any previous historical steps or previous historical changes in borders. Thus, our starting point and our mandate were the state of independence and not a return to history, which, by the way, was often heard or spoken in public. However, we did not have such a mandate. What we had to do to a large extent, either new or new, was to establish a maritime boundary between the two countries. In the ten-year negotiations, we were able to reach an agreement on this for the first time. For the first time, we were able to reach an agreement on the exit to the open sea, i.e. that Slovenia has direct contact from its territorial sea with the international sea, with the open sea. That's the key point we agreed on. And the rest of the solution at sea, according to our assessment, is favourable, satisfactory and ensures Slovenia's position as a sea country. A concrete presentation of the border itself and its whole is taking place, of course I cannot give you in this context today. This is what we are supposed to do, and we will probably do it next week when we agree on when the relevant committee would consider this draft agreement, and it will therefore be possible to present in detail the entire course of this border. According to our assessment, of course, the agreement is good, balanced. We have achieved much at sea, perhaps slightly less than some expectations, but not entirely justified in the relevant facts, the documentation. However, Slovenia can now complete its border. I expect and hope that the adoption process, the verification process of this Agreement and also the ratification process will be successful both in our National Assembly and in the Croatian Parliament. It is clear that the debate there too is very critical, even very sharp. It is obvious that no negotiating party can present a bargaining chip that would be entirely in favour of one country alone and entirely in the loss of the other. We will try to present each positive achievement of our negotiations, what seems important to us, of course not too euphoric at the same time, because we also do not want to arouse a sense of complete victory, because this is simply not possible, because it would mean that one party has lost, and thus there would be no possibility of agreement and then ratification if such perception were. I therefore assess that the agreement is realistic, correct and is in line with Slovenian national interests. In the context of the small-border agreement, therefore, once again, there is no reason to hold back the ratification of this Agreement. I propose and appeal to the National Assembly to do so now in its decision-making process. I estimate that, once both governments have set draft border agreements, the negotiations process, the process has been completed and that, therefore, the adoption or non-admission of a small-border agreement in this context is no longer affected. [[...]] And I think it is in the interest of the Slovenian people, especially at the border, and of course also of the Croatian people, that this agreement should therefore be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we conclude that we vote on the proposal for a law in full. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for this Decision. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Mr President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I ask for half an hour's rest for the consultation of our Group of Members before voting. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Dr. Bayuk, may I guess? You probably think before deciding on the bill as a whole. We are now only voting on the decision to vote on the law as a whole. I propose that we take this decision further and then, of course, we will comply with your request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I put this proposal to the vote. 79 colleagues and colleagues are present. 71, 6 were against them. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. In accordance with the initiative of the Head of the New Slovenia Group, I give a half break. The National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a law in its entirety at 5.45 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Colleagues and colleagues! It's 5:46 p.m. According to our announcement prior to the adjournment of the meeting, I ask first we will determine the presence, I apologize. [[...]] Please press the quorum key to determine the conclusion of the hall. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Dr. Bajuk, the leader of the New Slovenia Group demanded a half break inga ask if he wants a word. [[He does.]] Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By familiarising us today in the National Assembly with the agreement reached today between the two governments, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, we estimate that there are no more reasons not to continue the procedure for a small-border agreement. On the basis of our decision and also our discussions with our colleagues in the Slovenian Coalition, Nova Slovenija, will not oppose or support this. However, I must say clearly and loudly that this does not in any way mean that Nova Slovenije accepts or supports what is in this agreement, because we do not yet know about borders. Only that we can now, because we continue with this procedure; this is because it is only a logical order that has finally been set up to determine whether an agreement can be reached at the border itself, and then we can talk smartly and rationally about a small-scale relationship with this band. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We vote on the bill. There were 83 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 73 colleagues and 6 against the ratification. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and cooperation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 43. Period - Proposal for a law on self-serving. We've completed our first hearing. For the record, I invite the president of the Internal Policy Committee, my colleague Lavrinz. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Please, you have your word, but for everyone else, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	That means they'll stay quiet, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Does that mean they'll probably stay quiet if I have the word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	That'd be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Okay. So the committee did not consider this point. The reason is very simple. During the time available, it was not possible to seriously examine all comments that came from local communities, i.e. from the municipalities, and also not the comments that were made at first reading, both at the committee and at the national assembly. Therefore, the completion of this point is likely to have to be postponed to September.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President Lavrinz. Anyone else wants a word, or we will vote on your proposal to move this item to one of the future meetings. Anyone want a word on this conclusion? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate and make a proposal to the Internal Policy Committee for this item to be put to the vote on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a decision made by the Internal Policy Committee. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 65 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 60 supported by this proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I note that it has been adopted and thus I conclude this point, i.e. the 43rd item of the agenda. Pursuant to Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, 48. We're moving on to 8 a.m. It's an extraordinary country convention. I put this proposal to the vote. I'm even more wondering if anyone would like a word on this, so that the 48th item of the agenda should be moved to the 8th special session, which will begin tomorrow. [[Nobody.]] I put this proposal to the vote. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 62 were in favour, 1 opposed it. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We're moving to 51. Agenda items for the report on the business of the institution for the death and disability insurance. The debate is closed. The proposed decision was adopted. There is an open debate on two, please, Comrade Anderic, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	Please read the magnetogram and you will find that this point has been completed. If we want to go to this point again, this should be done by voting, otherwise not. It's the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	So you expect me to continue the debate that is open. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	You need to read the magnetogram. Mr Brejc concluded this point yesterday and moved on to the next point, after someone intervened and the point continued. This cannot be done by the Rules of Procedure; only by a new vote, a new opening of this point can be done; otherwise, the Secretary will explain to you how the Rules of Procedure are interpreted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not like that, but something's true. The Vice-President of the National Assembly did not move to a new point, but when the decision proposed by the Committee was put to the vote, he immediately said after that, with this point being concluded, at the same time I raised my hand, but he had already said closed without me being able to interpret. I would, however, like to say, Mr President, a piece of the magnetogram of the president of the working body, which was as follows: "After the Committee has concluded its discussion, the Committee shall adopt a finding proposing to the National Assembly that, following the consideration of the annual report in accordance with Rule 173 of the Rules of Procedure, it adopt a decision as set out in the report of the Committee." In addition, two additional decisions were proposed as a parent working body for the consideration and acceptance of the National Assembly, namely: "On the basis of the assurances given to the institution, the Government should ensure that the complaint of the Republic of Slovenia for payment of compensation for Durs' work for 1997 and 1998 is also effectively withdrawn." And the second conclusion: "The Government should consider establishing a more operational way to write-off, write-off, deferral and reverse payment of contributions." With this, as rapporteur, I have made it very clear that the Committee has drawn up two additional decisions and forwarded them to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Given the fact that the chairman had finished so quickly, and I had already held my hand, he then gave me his word, and he felt it was right to continue this. I would like to propose, Mr President, if necessary, to reopen this item, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and to hold a debate and a vote on these two additional decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	If there is a misunderstanding, we will reopen the point and we will discuss and vote on these additional conclusions. My colleague Brace, who was in charge of the meeting yesterday, wants to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Well, if I may say so, we would have taken these two decisions a long time ago. And since that's true, what Mr Brenčič says is that while I was closing this point, he was already holding his hand up - that's true. However, I must say that the professional service has warned that the decisions have not been properly tabled and are therefore inappropriate from the point of view of the procedure, and for this reason I have not proposed them as additional conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	I think it would be good for the secretariat to be here now, too, on matters of law and law. I will propose to the National Assembly that it decide on my procedural proposal to bring two additional decisions to the debate. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Given that Mr Brejc said that the expert service had warned him that the conclusions were not properly tabled, then, of course, this debate could no longer be held; then the point was closed and it was concluded and, at the next point, the two conclusions should be put into effect. There's no other way if you want to follow the rules of procedure, but if you don't, then anything is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	We have no choice but to respect him. Apparently, it was just a misunderstanding yesterday, to overlook the application, just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Mr President, it is quite easy that this was a misunderstanding [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	You get your word, you get it, only if I can finish. Of course, we must follow the rules of procedure and resolve the situation we are in. If I understand correctly, yesterday, colleague Brejc missed a raise in his hands that would allow the debate to continue and perhaps you to change the content. We need to decide how we are going to proceed with the procedure now. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	It could be a misunderstanding. It is only a fact that these two additional decisions were an integral part of the report of the parent working body, a report in the sense that the working body, by a finding decision, proposed to the national assembly to adopt a decision, as stated, and that it had drawn two additional decisions when they were announced, would say that the decision of the committee was fully understood that they were decided and discussed and adopted by the national assembly. The report was presented orally by the rapporteur in an identical manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	Please, my fellow schoolboy. I propose that we be patient and look at which decision is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you. I would like to make a procedural proposal on my own to resolve this situation. That is to say that the National Assembly will reopen this point and vote on these two additional proposals, which I say in advance that I will also support them, because they allow in some way the National Assembly, through this discussion, to influence certain things in relation to the debate on the pension register. And I think we can do this technically and genetically based on what happened at yesterday's session. I'd like to ask you to reopen this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Good. The procedural proposal is that this point should be reopened. We will vote on that. Please, Comrade Anderlich. It's a procedural proposal. I propose that we make a decision on this proposal. I propose that we decide by vote. You want the position of the secretariat? I'm asking you to settle a matter that was due to a mistake yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	But I do think you need to check this out. No, you're talking about something else that Mr. Brejc was talking about. [[...]] Mr Brejc said he had a notice that the conclusions were incorrectly filed. If they are not properly invested, then you will find out whether they are or not before we reopen the point. But if not, I agree that the point will open up, and I have suggested in the beginning that this should be resolved. But we can't do that: I wouldn't. But if you're not properly invested, then it's not business anyway, so let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	So, I'm informed that the conclusions are properly filed. The two conclusions were duly tabled by the Group of Members. In this context, we can decide on a procedural proposal to reopen the point. I now make this proposal for a decision. Please. We are voting on the proposal to reopen this point. Please. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. 29 were in, 18 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 18.]] Does anyone want a word on the proposed two conclusions? My friend Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	I can only conclude that Mr Plevelje said yesterday that both conclusions were misapplied and that they were correctly filed today. But yesterday at the session I was conducting, they weren't properly filed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Please have some peace in the hall! If it's necessary, we'll take a five-minute break to clear things up. The proposals were tabled correctly. The Committee has tabled two proposals. These are the Committee's decisions. These are the board's decisions, right? Please, colleague Brenčič - no. I suggest we set a 10-minute break here at this point. Please, 10 minutes, we'll resume the session at 6.10 p.m. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I don't think these complications are necessary right now, please. I propose so much patience that in a 10-minute break, the situation is determined that we will be acting in full compliance with the rules of procedure. We'll resume at 6:10 p.m. I'm asking for so much patience, colleagues and colleagues. It's 6:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	I invite colleagues and colleagues to join us in the main hall of the National Assembly. I suggest we find out if there's a presence in the hall. There is a colleague or colleague missing to make a decision so that we can make a decision. We're re-detecting the presence in the hall. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are enough colleagues and colleagues present to be able to decide - 47 of us. I think that the decision we adopted was entirely in line with what was happening at the end of this point. This would allow us to discuss today two proposals for additional decisions put to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the SLS + SKD Group. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss them? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will put forward a proposal which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, on the basis of the guarantees given to the institution, ensure that the application of the Republic of Slovenia for payment for the work of Durs for the years 1997 and 1998 will also be effectively withdrawn." I put this proposal to the vote. 46 colleagues and colleagues were present, 37 were in favour, 4 were against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the first additional decision has been adopted. The second reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consider the possibility of establishing a more operational way to write off, partially cancel the deferral and pay off the contributions by hand." I put this proposal to the vote. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 38 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposal for an additional decision has been adopted and that the 51st item has been concluded. We're moving to 52. It's the day's turn, it's the love and the name. Proposals of the Judicial Council and proposals and opinions of the Elections Commission, entitled "I beg your pardon? Procedural? Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Mr President, I ask on what basis we continue to meet after 6 p.m. today, we have usually voted on this and made a special decision. Now, you're in charge of some order here in the National Assembly. I'm asking, on what basis did this happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	Yeah, that's right. This is the last thing we do to close the seventh session. And if the assembly decides otherwise, I will make the proposal that we conclude today, we will continue tomorrow at ten and then, in accordance with the agreement, start an extraordinary session an hour later. Thanks for the heads-up. It was in place. You're right. I am proposing a procedural decision to conclude this item today, and with this also the 7th regular meeting. I'd like you to make a statement on that. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 37 were in favour, 9 were against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The proposal was adopted. And so we can proceed 52. It's a day's work. I said that you have received the proposals of the Judicial Council and the proposals and opinions of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals of the Council of Justice, namely the three proposals for election to a judicial function and the proposal for the appointment of a Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposals of the Commission on the establishment of a Council for Broadcasting, amending the decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy and amending the decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly for Health, Labour, the Family of Social Policy and Disabled Persons. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. First of all, on the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial function of the Court of Justice: District Judges at the Maribor District Court, Judges for Offences at the Ljubljana Criminal Court, Senior Judge at the Higher Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, and a motion for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? He's not here. The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. I see there's no motive for that. I ask whether any of the Members or Members want a word. [[Neither do I.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Tanja Rot to the judicial office of the District Court in the Maribor District Court. We're voting on the proposal. There were 50 colleagues and colleagues present, 42 of whom were in favour, one opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Tamara Kokalj to the judicial office of the Court of Justice for offences before the Court of Offences of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 39 supported by the proposal, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Borut Vuković to the judicial office of a higher judge in the higher working and social court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There were 50 colleagues and colleagues present, 41 in favour, 2 in opposition. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decree appointing Mr Peter Hauptman to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues were present, 41 were in favour, 2 were against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a proposal for a resolution establishing a broadcasting council. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. Do Members and Members want the word? [[Neither do I.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing a broadcasting council in its entirety. We're voting. There are 52 colleagues and colleagues present, 39 for, 11 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. 46 were in favour, 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Finally, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude this debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a committee of the National Assembly for Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Please let us vote on this. Let's vote! There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. 42 were in favour, 1 was against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes point 52 of the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the National Assembly will begin its extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for your patience today. Everybody have a nice night.
