ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	I'm informed that the Finance Committee is still in session. The 11th meeting is scheduled to begin or resume at 10 a.m., so I ask everyone to come to the hall. Also colleagues and colleagues who are still at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Please take your seats. I invite ministers and ministers to join us in the hall. All others to insert the cards, we will determine the presence in the hall so that we can continue the 11th extraordinary session. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, if you take your seats, we will begin the 11th session. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of our next colleagues and colleagues: colleague Vnučec, Rupar, Dr. Bajuk, colleague Malovrev, Pukšič, Kelemina, for the morning or afternoon part of the meeting of colleague Juri, colleague Jerovšek and colleague Janez Janša. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards, we'll figure out the conjunctivities. We're picking up the presence, please press the "quorum" button. There are 49 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I have invited ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, and I welcome them very much among us. Today's continuation of the 11th session will begin with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda - the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Comrade Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Given that the Committee on Finance is obviously discussing this point of the agenda again, because we did not continue to do so yesterday, as was the order of the day, it was clear in the meantime what is probably also good that certain things still need to be harmonised. I therefore propose that the National Assembly continue its work at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Here we have a proposal to continue work at 11.00 a.m., in order to make the mother labour, the Committee on Finance, more thoroughly prepare the material for consideration. I think this is a sensible proposal if it can help bring about a quality debate on the proposals of the two budgets. I therefore propose that the National Assembly suspend the work so that the mother's working body, the Committee on Finance, will finish its work. We'll continue at 11:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	The assembly will continue its 11th extraordinary session with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the big debate room. Dear colleagues! It's two minutes past 11:00. I invite you to take your seats. I also invite the distinguished ministers to do so, Minister. Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall! First, we will determine whether the National Assembly is concluded to be able to continue the adjourned 11th meeting. Please take your seats. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 77 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2002. I ask for peace in the hall. We'll ask the Minister of Finance first, mag. Robbery to present an introductory explanation. They will then be given the opportunity to present their representatives' views. Minister Rob, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Obviously, the two-year budget or budget for two years is not easy to accept, as is evident from today's meeting of the Finance Committee, which has been running for quite a long time and has also not been easy by chance, and we are likely to have a very difficult discussion below. Allow me to present a few basic parameters of the updated draft budget. The Government has prepared the complementary proposals on the basis of an updated assessment of economic developments. It also took into account the conclusions of the home work bodies and, of course, the Committee on Finance. You have probably noticed that this is the first time that a relatively large number of comments, including the opposition, have been taken into account in these conclusions, so that I believe that the opposition in many ways, at least as far as the amendments are concerned, can be satisfied. Otherwise, we'll hear it from you later. And, of course, it is an important part of the additions arising from the addition of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years. By defining the new macroeconomic frameworks for 2002 and the revised evaluation of the implementation of the 2001 budget, the updated economic policy of the Government, as I said, define additional budgetary revenues that primarily allow for an unaltered overall volume of budgetary expenditure, which is an important, larger budgetary reserve and an unaltered volume of deficits in the two planned years. And, of course, restructuring, budgetary expenditure, by reducing the fixed part and increasing the variable part of budgetary expenditure, to reduce the part of the expenditure devoted to public sector salaries and material costs and to increase the part devoted to investment. The new evaluation of the implementation of the budget for this year is, of course, an essential factor in the preparation of the 2002 supplementary budget, and consequently for the following year. On the basis of the movement of macroeconomic aggregates in Slovenia in the first ten months of this year and the new estimates of key indicators affecting the realisation of government revenue and expenditure, in particular the dynamics of economic growth, the movement of imports, exports and domestic consumption show that by the end of the financial year 2001, the revenues of the state budget will be realised around 1149 billion Slovenian tolars. This means that about 11.5 billion Slovenian Tolars will be smaller than was foreseen in the adopted budget for this year. Of the total budget revenue, tax revenues of around 5.5 billion Slovenian tolars will be lower than foreseen in the adopted budget, mainly at the expense of lower value added tax and customs duties. At the same time, in 2001 there will be more realisation than planned, both for excise duties, corporate income tax and income tax. The lower realisation of indirect taxes is mainly affected by different movements of external trade flows, higher export growth, lower import growth than originally foreseen in the preparation of the budget. Of course, budget expenditure will also be adjusted to reduce the volume of budgetary revenue. The 10-month implementation of budgetary expenditure shows that, for certain budgetary spending purposes, the planned expenditure will be automatically realised to a lesser extent by the end of the year than envisaged. In particular, this applies to transfers to individuals, including funds for public authorities' salaries, certain categories, as well as certain categories of expenditure on goods and services. Of course, it should be noted that it gives additional spending rights the necessary to ensure, in particular in the case of transfers of funds to PSIs, wage funds in public institutions and funds for the implementation of the Law on Drought. The slow pace of domestic economic growth, due in particular to poor international economic conditions and also to lower public sector investment activity in the first half of this year, is reflected in the decrease in overall investment activities and the decline in export demand in the second half of the year, as well as less favourable forecasts of the economic growth of Slovenia's most important trading partners for 2001 and 2002. These are key factors for reducing Slovenia's economic growth forecast for 2001, for which the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis estimates that 3.7 - which is significantly less than the planned 4.4 - than for 2002, for which 4.2% of economic growth was planned and a new assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis is 3.6%. In a situation of declining economic activity, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to conduct anti-cyclical economic policy more actively, a policy that will promote both domestic economic and investment activities and increase the competitiveness of the economy. In line with its programme objectives, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore proposing further restructuring of budgetary expenditure, in particular in the direction of increasing investment in higher and secondary education, investment in road infrastructure and health care, as well as increases in budgetary reserves, and in particular, as I have already said, reductions in public sector wage expenditure, material costs and interest. In order to effectively manage such a defined policy, it is essential to provide stable funding sources, which will of course also be linked to the greater financial discipline of all direct budgetary users. Instruments to achieve these objectives are incorporated into the law on the implementation of the budget and an integral part of them is the proposal to raise value added tax: at a higher rate of 1 percentage point and at a lower rate of half percentage point. This is of course of exceptional importance, and the government has, of course, deliberately decided to increase the lower rate by only 0.5 percentage points due to the purposes which would and would otherwise be burdened by a higher value added tax rate. In this case, of course, the calculation of the increase in the value added tax also stems from the assumption that, in fact, there is no increase in the volume of the tax levied, but that in such activities there is no increase in the refund due to inward taxes of 20 % and that, of course, the financial impact is neutral and also an impact on prices. This is extremely important because it is an area such as food, medicine, and housing. Of course, in this way we eliminate the negative, possible negative impact of value added tax on these socially most sensitive areas. The government has decided to raise value added tax already in 2002 and not in 2003, also because 2003 is more than the year before Slovenia's entry into the European Union - we believe that this year is a year before the entry into the European Union, in which the reduction of inflation is of utmost importance for Slovenia's fuller integration into the European Union, especially since, of course, we are moving to a fixed rate and a fixed rate means, of course, that the impact of inflation on the economic and income situation of exporters is extremely negative and, of course, a consequence of the impact on economic growth and on the level of employment or unemployment. Because of this awareness, of course, it is absolutely clear that in 2003 the anti-inflation objective will be one that will be the fundamental objective of economic policy, if of course we are serious about entering the European Union, and of course we mean that. The basic objective of public financial policy remains stable and balanced public finances. However, the programming and economic structure of public finances is also becoming more important. In spite of the poor economic conditions, the conditions for the achievement of the basic programme objectives set out in the budgetary memorandum and the provision of stable public finances and a better budgetary expenditure structure will be met. Dear Members! While the volume of budgetary expenditure is increasing by 3.4 billion Slovenian tolars in 2002, budget reserves are increasing for just as much. All other changes in the expenditure side, however, reflect the restructuring of budgetary expenditure, in particular towards a larger variable part of the budget and in particular towards supporting those parts of budgetary expenditure, which not only mean meeting the government's memoranda's priorities, but also, in particular, supporting economic growth and in particular promoting investment activities next year. The revised structure of budgetary expenditure will contribute to an increase in resources for science and technological development by 500 million Slovenian tolars, investment in road infrastructure by 4.2 billion tolars, increased resources for state aid, in particular to increase the competitiveness of the economy, with a particular focus on tourism. Investment investments in sport, secondary and higher education and culture will be increased by 2 billion Slovenian tolars. Additional funds will also be provided for defence and security systems, for national programmes, for the detection and marking of post-war massacre graves and for the functioning of judicial authorities and the National Assembly. In view of the economic structure of budgetary expenditure, the funds for salaries and material costs will be reduced by around 3 billion Slovenian Tolars, interest on a billion Slovenian Tolars and subsidies and current transfers by around 3 billion Slovenian Tolars. Therefore, funds for the purchase and construction of basic funds, for investment transfers and for reserves will be increased. Thus, the fixed part of the budget expenditure, which was 66.4% of all budget expenditure in the draft budget, will be reduced to 65.8%. Budget expenditure in 2003 is reduced by 13.3 billion. I'll tell you more about this later when we're back in 2003. The planned reduction in wage expenditure will require a consistent implementation of the government's measures to limit and adapt the dynamics of employment, to reward the progress of public authorities by reducing the right to this end. Under the measures, the government has already reduced the right to increase employment in the public administration by 390 employees in 2001. In line with the Memorandum and the Job Plan, an increase in employment will be allowed in the next two years only to complete the formation in the Ministry of Defence and to recruit candidates for police officers in the Ministry of the Interior. The budgetary users will also have to ensure, through internal measures in the field of human resources and wage policies, that they do not create any deficits in wage items by fulfilling their commitments. In the area of transfers to individuals and households, estimates of the planned expenditure for 2002 and also 2003 are reduced in view of the initial draft budget due to the new lower expected growth rate of the base, both prices, baseline and guaranteed and average wages. New realisation assessments by the end of 2001, which differ from those assessed in the 2002 and 2003 draft budgets, are significantly lower in the case of transfers to the unemployed, while the projected unemployment rate remains the same as in the original proposal. As with the public administration, it is envisaged that employment should be reduced slightly and that the progress of employee remuneration should be limited. As with direct budgetary users, public institutions must adapt the implementation of their annual programmes in these years and thus the dynamics of employment, promotion, remuneration to limited resources, so that they do not create deficits by taking on commitments. The new estimate of public debt service expenditure for 2002 amounts to SIT 80.6 billion, which is 1 billion less than the assessment in the draft budget. The reason for the lower price of interest payments is the change in the structure of the debt portfolio that the Treasury intends to implement over the next two years. To this end, more expensive bonds issued by the Republic of Slovenia in the first half of the 1990s will be replaced by cheaper bonds. For the same reason, lower debt servicing costs are also assessed in the following year. The new macroeconomic and public financial frameworks will, of course, not only change the state budget, but will also affect the budgets of the municipalities and the budgets of both social registers. In 2002, consolidated public financial expenditure will increase by 5.7 billion and the volume of consolidated public financial expenditure in the following year will be reduced by 16 billion. The total public deficit will increase by 5 billion Slovenian tolars in 2002 due to the health deficit. Your Honor! This is the first time in Slovenia that we have adopted budgets for two years, and this also significantly increases the predictability of public finances as well as the stability and transparency of the adoption of new public financial commitments. In fact, only the adoption of two budgets has shown the benefits of longer-term planning. With the supplementary draft budget, we have further improved the initial draft budget in a qualitative manner. With the restructuring of expenditure, we have undoubtedly managed to ensure greater quality and development of budgetary expenditure, as well as greater reliability of budget implementation. It is about using the right economic policy at the right time, and this is exactly what the complementary draft budget is offering. That's why I suggest you support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your introductory explanation, Minister Mag. Robbery. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be given the floor, in order of order for applications to be made to the debate to take place. Let me tell you what this order is. First he'll get the word, fellow mags. Visa on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Then a colleague of Ferry on behalf of the ZLSD Group of Members. Comrade Janez Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Colleague Sašo Pece on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Comrade Kebrich on behalf of DeSUS. And the last entry arrived is the application of colleague Janez Podobnik on behalf of the SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party. A colleague of mags. Vizjak, your word. You have the same availability as all your colleagues in presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Social Democratic Party, we have devoted a considerable amount of time to both the draft budget and, of course, to the updated budget and, of course, to the law on the implementation of the budget, which is very important, accompanying the law to these documents. At the spring session, we stressed that we support the intention of multi-annual budgetary planning, but the Minister said that he wanted to ensure greater transparency and transparency and, of course, also somehow the predictability of the outcome of public finances for two years. We believe that this is in such an established form, as has also been presented through proposals, quite irrational work and, of course, we will be quite quick to witness, even because of the movements in the world and also with us, the re-parliamentary procedure on the budget for the year, both for 2002 and for 2003 as well. We estimate that budgetary planning, in particular for two years, should be based on solid, realistic foundations, which, according to our assessment, are in particular the following: objective assessment of the implementation of the current budget, realistic and objective forecasts of macroeconomic indicators for the two-year budget period, the establishment of macro-fiscal objectives and measures to achieve these objectives and, of course, the establishment of the country's development priorities. Let me also pause a little with each of these foundations. An objective assessment of the implementation of the current year's budget must be based on an evaluation of the implementation of the 2001 budget. I would like to stress the macroeconomic assumptions that are somewhat corrected in the supplementary draft budget. Real GDP growth is estimated at 3.7%, which is reduced by 0.6% from 4.4% of the spring estimate. Let me stop a little while longer with a very important assumption, this is real growth in consumption, investment. The decline here is 1.4% instead of 2.6% after the spring growth estimate. Personal consumption is 1.9% based on spring score 2.1%. It is unrealistic to expect that the movement of macroeconomic categories, which, of course, also depend on budget implementation, would be better in the second half than in the first half or before 11 September. In fact, gross social product growth was 2.9% in the first half of the year, and in the second trimester even lower, 2.75%, which means that we estimate that it is unrealistic and unreasonable to expect real GDP growth in this year to be 3.7%, according to what has been said. Let me also mention the income assessment for 2001. The overall estimate of revenue is lower by 11.5 billion, as Mr Minister has already said, than the budget adopted or even 4 billion lower than in the 2002 draft budget assessment. Tax revenues in the overall income assessment are lower by SIT 5.5 billion, higher direct taxes and lower indirect taxes. In doing so, VAT is reduced by 16 billion according to the budget adopted. With excise duties, they are expected to collect even 7 billion more, according to the budget adopted. According to our assessment, based on the actual data on taxes paid for 10 months of this year and the dynamics paid by the end of the year, the drop in value added tax will be higher, according to our estimate of at least 22 billion Slovenian tolars. The one-percent increase from 1.1.2001 will not affect the implementation of January 2002. The reasons for the lower VAT cannot be attributed to export-import movements as VAT is collected at the planned level, i.e. higher by 18.6% during this period. While VAT, after the calculation, is collected by a good 25% lower than in the same period last year. It is worth noting that the lower assessment or lower implementation of taxes during the ten-month period have not yet been affected by the changed economic situation since 11.9.2001. The assessment of expenditure for 2001 is very important. In the supplementary budget, expenditure is reduced by a total of 11.5 billion, in particular the largest share of expenditure on investments and investment transfers. The conclusion that the government intends to reduce investment and investment transfer expenditure by a total of 6 billion Slovenian tolls and subsidies to the economy by 1.8 billion Slovenian tolars in 2001 shows the unreality of its allegations that it will ensure the countercyclical functioning of the country by means of a supplementary draft budget. The reduction in expenditure in the last two months of this year in the same type of consumption is a real contrast. In our view, it is unacceptable that the government is stating that automatic restructuring and reduction will take place. We stress the need for the government to come to the National Assembly or to confirm these changes with a balance, and we are against automatic redistribution or restructuring. It is also worth noting that the government does not say how much or how much it will assume in 2001 to pay in the coming years, namely 2002 and 2003 and in the remaining years, which is within the framework of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2001. The evaluation of the implementation of the budget for 2001 is lower, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, than the budget adopted, for which we are assessing socialdemocrats, are mainly two reasons. The internal reasons for the value added tax inflows are, of course, also a change in the structure of spending, in particular the final, non-consensual wage policy in the public sector and the new and new legal obligations and, of course, employment. Of course, external factors such as recession. It points to the importance of planning more realisticly for the years 2002 and 2003. It is clear from the above that the government, in its forecasts of macroeconomic assumptions, is always fundamentally unreasonably optimistic and predicts higher figures than it actually does. That's what we've been witnessing for the past few years. The macroeconomic baselines predict that in 2002 the normal situation and the darecsia, which we are witnessing in the US and, of course, in Europe and Slovenia, will not affect the growth of gross social product, which is projected at 3.6%, as predicted for 2001. They are expected to reach it, according to government statements, mainly through investments in the public sector, education, health care, motorways. But the resources for this funding are questionable. Where we'll imprison them or find resources. Is that an added value tax rise? Are these resources in changed priorities? And with that, the government didn't serve here. Will it provide a change of priority or where resources will be available for these investments? According to our assessment, it would be significantly more rational for the economy to relieve, mainly through tax policy, and to create incentives for investing an economy that is significantly more rational in investment than in the country. Because the state makes all its investments through an irrational or substantially less rational bureaucratic apparatus, as is the case with the economy. Investment consumption is expected to have a growth rate of 4.6%. We believe that this is a completely unfounded expectation in view of this year's situation. Private consumption is expected to be higher by 3%. Many independent economists believe that these expectations are unfounded. The indebtedness of the population, which has significantly increased in the introduction of value added tax when Slovenia is covered by consumer investment euphoria, has not decreased significantly in these years and therefore high expectations of private consumption are not justified. National consumption is expected to grow by 3.7%. October inflation is at 8.7%. And if we are also looking at the starting point for 2002 to be 5.7% and 4.9% in 2003, at the raising of value added tax, at the raising of excise duties and contributions, it seems to me that this is unrealistic and thus loses the priority of controlling inflation at the expense of some other objectives. And this, we believe, is not appropriate if we want to make serious progress towards the European Union, because the Maastricht criteria are clear and well-known and we estimate that, with such a policy that is not anti-inflationary, we will not achieve them. Unemployment - the government's very optimistic outlook on unemployment is to be seen in the supplementary draft budget, stressing that we have growth in the unemployed, which means that there are more than 102,000 in Slovenia. Prognosis of the abolition of the Slovenian development company will put pressure again on the employment institution or on the unemployed market. The revenue for 2002 provides for a total increase of 3.4 billion Slovenian tolars, according to the draft budget, the government estimates a reduction in revenue by 21 due to a reduction in the baseline value for 2001 and higher taxes as a result of the increase of 24.3 billion for 2002 which means net 3.4 billion Slovenian tolars. I wonder in which country it is normal for a government to go into recession or, at the time of a significant decline in economic growth, to go beyond tax hikes. Expenditure for 2002 shows that the government has restructured expenditure for 2002 by 7.9 billion, mainly at the expense of reducing wages, expenditure on goods, transfers to individuals, subsidies and interest and, with an additional increase in revenues of 3.4 billion, allocated to the new 11.3 billion Slovenian tolars, indicating investment in roads 4.2, investments in education 1.7, expenditure on defence 0.7, expenditure on science 0.5 billion. This structural change in expenditure for 2002 cannot ensure the government’s countercyclical action, especially since it will result from an increase in value added tax, which will, on the other hand, reduce personal consumption and affect negative economic growth. In fact, the planned increased expenditure for investment purposes means an improvement in the variable part of expenditure in total expenditure, so that the government would have significantly more manoeuvres for later reallocations in case of unrealistic planning and, of course, servicing changes on the revenue side. It is understandable that the Government's 2002 pre-optimistic planning is rather unrealistic and unwarranted because it has extensive powers in the law on budgetary implementation to adapt expenditure to the available revenues, in particular as regards deficits. If the ruling coalition were not so generous with the powers of the government to redistribute and other budget adjustment measures, the government would be significantly more obliged to plan and prepare the budget for 2002 and 2003. In particular, according to the Social Democratic Party, the following priorities should be set for the next period. The government predicts that it will lead an anti-cyclical economic policy by taking action to increase investment in public infrastructure. It is incomprehensible that the government wants to cover the VAT deduction or the loss of value added tax revenue by introducing a higher value added tax rate. The loss of VAT revenues is not only due to unrealistic planning but also to revised spending structures, especially final ones. The consumption is low, the company has to print out at costs and in such uncertain circumstances it does not reach out to higher taxes, but even indirect ones. The price is paid by the final consumer anyway. We therefore point out that national consumption needs to be adjusted to the tides and not the other way around. Not that we're adapting the tides to the tide. There is also a shortage of budgetary revenue by means of the systematic increase in excise duties served by the Government in the last period. In our view, therefore, it is not enough for the government to predict an increase in investment in public infrastructure. In our view, the government should choose to invest more rationally or to promote a favourable climate for investment in the economy, since the economy is the one that knows the most, which investments and how to make these investments. This is also the case, as a significant proportion of the funds allocated to the so-called anti-cyclical activity go to transport infrastructure. If the government here wants to achieve a new start for the Slovenian economy, I can say that this can also mean business for foreign contractors and, last but not least, we see what is happening with the withdrawal of some Slovenian contractors from Slovenian construction sites. The government should therefore provide a more favourable climate for investment and investment in the economy, in particular in terms of increasing the competitiveness of the economy, the integration of economic operators, the promotion of exports and, of course, the development or promotion of sectors that generate the highest added value. In addition to what I have said, the government has written down among the long-term programme objectives of the 2002 and 2003 budget to further strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, and in fact the government is dedicating a programme to increase the competitiveness of the economy by half a billion Slovenian tolars less than it is estimated this year and the restructuring of companies by 200 million Slovenian tolars less than this year. The first long-term objective and programme objective of the government is also to create a knowledge-based society, which unfortunately is also a dead letter on paper. In 2001, the State budget allocated around 4.79% of the gross social product to education. However, the macro-fiscal scenario projection suggests that in 2002 the education budget would allocate 4.72% of the gross social product, which is lower, and by 2005 the share would have dropped to 4.37% of the gross social product. This means that the budget, despite this imperative in the coming years of education, will devote a lower budget share. In view of the coming recession and the resurgence of the unemployment rate, we believe that significantly more money should be devoted to active employment policies at the expense of passive forms and to the account of substantially more active employment policies and work of the employment and employment offices in terms of the rapid and efficient movement of unemployed from passive forms into active forms. Finally, I would also mention this priority for the development of local communities. We estimate that the country imposes a number of new duties on local communities through various obligations and, of course, it also causes costs, while at the same time increasing the proportion of municipalities only indexically depending on inflation. According to our assessment, agriculture is not and will not be ready to enter the European Community, at least not with this budget share. In the end, many would likely wonder where to take it. The government should significantly tighten the belt, not only in its own consumption, but also in assessing the expenditure of this year's budget, so we believe that the government has made a substantial overly rich commitment, particularly to its own representation. We are wondering about the point of purchase, in particular from these items, of government aircraft. Material costs as a result of the irrational organisation of ministries and bodies in the composition. I would like to point out that today, on the Committee on Finance, we can find some 10 million Slovenian tolars by tying here some budgetary user with material costs that are, as a rule, too richly designed in the budget. And of course, if the National Assembly confirms this to them, a lot of budget users don't know at the end of the year what money is and buys some things very irrationally. I would also like to point out that the government, not only at material costs, but also through funding for a number of irrationally evaluated programmes in all areas, is spending a large number of funds and unwarrantedly spending. In particular, I think that these programmes, which are presented to individual budget users, would require significantly more difficult or more detailed analyses and justifications than we are now witnessing. And, of course, in this area too, it is possible to save a lot of money. Unrational investments in the country should also be stopped. Let me just mention a rather irrational spending of money on highway construction. We ourselves are witnessing many irregularities and numerous aspects of these projects and these investments, and we believe that additional money could be provided here with adequate supervision and due care of the country's spending of this money. Let me also mention another very important source, according to our assessment. For we lack a more selective approach in all types of monetary assistance, including social assistance. Because, in particular, with regard to the problem of social assistance, I would draw attention to an unselective approach, which also provides assistance to the unnecessary, socially unnecessary, unhindered, means that it discourages people from working, stifling employment and, of course, causing irrationally high expenditure from the state budget. With regard to the 2003 budget, I would only stress that the assessment of macroeconomic assumptions for 2002 seems unrealistic. And it is very pointless to talk today about such a detailed budget cut for 2003 as well. We believe that the government should first and foremost set priority areas and the global level of funding for priority areas and that the debate on this should take place in the spring 2002 season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. During your debate, I received three applications for a general presentation of the opinions, colleague Kavčič, on behalf of LDS, colleague of Possončeva, on behalf of the Hungarian National Community, and colleague of Štemberger as the last, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party of young people. The next one has the word of a colleague of Feri Horvat, after which he will receive the word of a colleague Janez Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The United List of Social Democrats is a government party, despite all the uncertainties and unfavourable forecasts of economic developments in the international environment and, as a result, also with us and despite the unfavourable heritage of the past [[She hasn't been in government in five years, by the way.]] consciously accepted the challenge and responsibility, in accordance with the Coalition Treaty, and cooperated, to the best of its ability and programme orientations, in drawing up draft budgets for the next two years. It is therefore also understandable that both draft budgets will be supported. Our efforts to prepare and coordinate draft budgets have followed a development model that is not only a model of European social democracy, part of which is also a unified list, but also a largely dominant development model in the European Union countries and beyond, including in the countries of the security and cooperation organisation in Europe. [[here would recall the declaration from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Paris at the end of July of this year]] . Indeed, a development model that seeks to achieve the greatest possible balance between economic growth, social justice and the environment. Such a development model is also based on the economic development strategy of Slovenia adopted by the Government at the end of July of this year, following preliminary consideration by the Committee on the Economy of this Assembly and the Commission of the Council of State. This rightly raises the question whether and to what extent such guidance from the strategy and such a pattern is taken into account in the draft budget that we have before us. We believe that the basic orientations are taken into account, unfortunately in individual parts, insufficient or to a sufficient extent or to a sufficient extent, mainly due to the excessive fixed share of budgets, tight economic conditions and also to the legacy or burden of the past. Let me make some more concrete comments, as well as views on the draft budgets and on policies in specific areas. Important, so far the greatest progress in the preparation and budget system is, according to our assessment, particularly in the following. Firstly, timely adoption of the budget or three budgets in one year. Second, the normal budget for the whole calendar year. Thirdly, the net budget, transparent, without a hidden deficit, which was particularly taken up at the beginning of the budget preparation, is also a consolidated list. And fourthly, the adoption of two budgets for the next two years. This means brave action for some, even bold action, especially in view of the unfavourable and particularly uncertain situation in the international environment and at home. We believe that in uncertain situations it is even more necessary to have guidance, frameworks and, in particular, priorities for a longer period than one financial year. This is particularly important because these are the last two and in many ways decisive years before the desired and expected entry into the European Union in 2004. However, given the uncertainties of macroeconomic developments, it is necessary to be prepared for changes and adjustments to the budget or budgets already in 2002 and especially for 2003. In doing so, it will be very important for the government to respond in a timely manner to macroeconomic developments in the world and in us and to the changes and incoming national assembly with the necessary information and proposals, in particular to the proposals for rebalances, to laws and other measures, and in particular to be important austerity measures in all areas, not only declaratively, but in practice. As regards the content of individual budget segments, let me limit myself to certain areas. For economic and development policy areas, it can be concluded that, including recent amendments to the complementary proposals, in particular, I am thinking of investments, despite the small variable part of budget expenditure, progress in development and active budget policies. We would, of course, like the share and volume of funds to be even greater for these purposes, but we take into account the reality that we are facing. Here we focus on increasing investment in infrastructure, both because of indirect effects on the rest of the economy. In the case of roads, however, I would mention in particular the economic importance for the more equitable development of Slovenia. In fact, one of the conditions for this is road connections. Investments in housing, education, health care, culture, knowledge in general and other areas are important. It will be important to create conditions and climate for economically efficient entrepreneurial investment. We believe that interest rates in America, in Europe and also in Europe should be used and, of course, barriers to investment in the enterprise sector removed. Further steps will need to be taken to increase foreign direct investment that is still too small [[we are thinking, above all, of the administrative obstacles that are still present, of the urgent increase in promotion, land security and other]] . Investments abroad will need to be increased, in particular in countries with perspective markets in South-Eastern Europe, in order to secure the situation on these markets in the long term [[This was also pointed out by the last Business Conference of the Finances of the Faculty of Economics and the Association of Economists]] . We support investment in measures to increase competitiveness, technological development, the development of medium and small enterprises, the establishment of technology parks and the restructuring of critical industries. We are pleased and supported the proposal that a few more funds have been earmarked in the complementary proposal for this purpose. Finally, efforts are important to increase the volume of services, particularly tourism, given the latest trends, especially in European tourism. We are pleased to note that, together with the European Union's funds, there will be a substantial increase in funding for coherent regional development. This has been, in our opinion, probably one of the weakest points of development policy so far; there has also been no budgetary debate, and that is why I would not have been critical of this issue myself. In doing so, I would like to point out that more coherent polycentric development is one of the most important priorities of the Joint List programme, and this has also been dedicated to the recent first party conference in Murska Sobota. Regional policy is an extremely current regional organisation. It is also necessary to support activities in the National Assembly for the early development of the landscapes. It is worth taking into account the comments made in the European Commission's report, not because of the Commission itself or the European Union, but in its own interest, in order to attract and spend as much resources as possible from the European Union funds. In implementing the budget in the economic field, the participation of ministries and the pooling of funds in equivalent or complementary, similar programmes will need to be further enhanced and the effectiveness of individual forms of aid, investment and incentive measures will be further assessed. Given the projected slowdown in our traditional markets [[I am thinking mainly of the European Union countries.]] additional efforts and resources will be necessary - this is also the case for a specific fund - to support exports of goods and services. In this regard, the following activities will be particularly important: further strengthening of the activity of the Slovenian exporting company, enhanced and more efficient economic and tourism promotion [[It is good that additional funds are allocated to this purpose in the amendment of the Committee on Finance]] , increasing the activity of diplomatic and consular representations in the function of supporting the expansion of economic relations with foreign countries, increased activities on the market of South-Eastern Europe and elsewhere, I mean the dispersion of our foreign trade exchange, the better exploitation of Slovenia as a bridge between the economically developed Western countries and the country of South-Eastern and Eastern Europe. A very important part of the budget, which, together with accompanying legislation, provides social security, social cohesion and eliminates or at least reduces social exclusion, is the social area. This is particularly current and increasingly in the increasingly acute economic situation we are looking for. Some of the more important measures, supported by the necessary resources in the draft budget, are of particular importance to us in the following areas. First, an increase in family benefits with better and fairer solutions, for example in the area of child allowances, depending on the income of families, the number of children and the like. We are confident that this will also contribute to improving demographic trends. Secondly, social protection and social networks - by increasing funds for those who actually need them most. Thirdly, faster realization of the rights of victims of war violence, faster reduction of arrears and additional resources provided for this purpose in the supplementary draft budget. Fourthly, emphasis on employment, in particular active employment policies, with emphasis on training to increase job opportunities, by continuing public works and so on. Further, support to students in the field of scholarships, nutrition and other areas. It is also important to take measures by the Ministry to rationalise spending, eliminate anomalies, all with the aim of making as much of the funds available to people and less for the costs of implementing programmes or for bureaucracy itself. An important achievement is the agreement of the social partners on the labour law. This is important for both workers and employers. And this proves once again how important social partnership is. This will be even more important in difficult, perhaps crisis economic conditions. Public administration is of great importance for the scale and effective implementation of the budget, for the functioning of the State and for the fulfilment of the needs and rights of citizens and citizens. It must be acknowledged that the process of reforming public administration, local self-government and, in particular, regional organisation has been taking place too slowly and it is no coincidence that the European Union has been warning about this for years. That is why we are also slowly implementing the sympathetic syntagma of the 1955 Slovenian Economic Development Strategy, which stated that the state will provide a thin, efficient and rational state administration. I'm afraid that didn't happen. At least until now. But in recent times we need to find visible progress, particularly in the following important projects: a project on public administration reform, raising its quality, informing, education and strengthening the administrative sector with the ultimate goal, as our colleague, Minister Bohinc, has repeatedly said, "provide a friendly window for citizens or citizens and thus, of course, a more rational state administration". This will certainly affect the country's costs in the coming years. Next. In this regard, I think it's an important anti-biocratic program, even though someone will sometimes be somewhat ironic as some kind of fashion or campaign. However, I think this is a very important project, which is already giving first results to simplifying complicated and over-consuming procedures, which means rationalisation for citizens, the economy and, ultimately, for the country as well. Next. A project to establish a new wage system in the public sector, which will cover both government officials, Members as well as judges, teachers, doctors, researchers, culturers and others, and remove the existing partial resolution of this area with a number of negative consequences. Further, the project of regionalisation, the formation of landscapes and ensuring the decentralisation of the country. With regard to the entry into the European Union, two other tasks are important, namely to ensure the protection of the southern European border and to enable a large number of officials for the time we are members of the European Union, both in Brussels and in other areas. Let me conclude with a few words on the way in which the draft budgets are being debated and drafted. It is certain that this draft budget is not ideal either, but I hope to say that it is better than the previous budgets that we have adopted in this House. The budget is simply a reflection of the reality that we face at home and in the world, both political and, above all, economic. In the current situation or debates, particularly by the opposition, but that I will be honest, even by the coalition Members, with a lot of criticism, which is legitimate and normal, especially for the opposition, we have done so in the past years, but we must find out the truth lovingly that there have been fewer proposals, what and how better to deal with in the budget or in the budgets. And so on. It has been obvious and there is still a lack of consistency between colleagues and colleagues, particularly colleagues, when they say in the same breath that the draft budget is too extensive to take account of the deterioration of the economic situation, while at the same time proposing supplements to increase individual budget items and proposing a reduction of items that, I am deeply convinced, they themselves know that they cannot be reduced or at least reduced as they propose. It is obvious that it is a matter of acquiring cheap political points without taking responsibility for such conduct. Finally, I should like to say that I have the impression or impression that, in view of the past years in this budget, the complementary proposal and, in particular, the amendment of the parent working body, the Committee on Finance, which has been taken into account or covered by much or a large part of the amendments proposed by the opposition Members and Members. This I think is positive, not only because of the appearance, but because of the correct attitude towards the quality proposals made by the opposition in its amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of Nova Slovenije will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Dear colleagues, dear representatives or representatives of the government, are warmly welcomed. Allow me to present the position and opinion of New Slovenia on the 2002 budget. The preparation of the two-year budget is certainly positive for the economy because it points to a longer-term direction in terms of operating conditions. This also means greater responsibility in adopting guidelines. This, of course, requires realistic assumptions for such a document, in particular the assumptions on which consumption is based. We are already here on the right issue when these assumptions are not in our opinion appropriate. I would not explain in more detail because some of my colleagues have already explained this. Much more should be taken into account international economic factors, since the globalisation world that is now emerging and which Slovenia is involved has a much more impact on individual economies. The reactions are chained. This cannot be fully resisted or prevented.This is probably why the government has made these changes. Given the current state of affairs of this year's budget, this should be considered in greater depth, taking into account current developments, particularly in the budget, and of course in public finances and also, of course, in the macroeconomic movements of our country. Given that this has not been done sufficiently, I can say with certainty that we will probably meet with a third version, but once the budget is likely to be adopted. This is sad for our country and also for the government. The government produces whole piles of paper that have a poor forecast value, which is also of poor value in terms of obligations; this is even worse, for it reduces credibility. We are probably expecting some kind of stabilisers or budgetary kindness that will overtake us, that is to say, stretching financial frameworks. Surely, this set includes a short-term debt available to the government of about 100 billion tolars. In this budget, I would like to draw attention to some of the inconsistencies of the document preparers. It is clear from the document that those who made the tables and explanations did not always have before them a budget memorandum or these recent changes, introductory or fundamental changes, a re-routing by the Government. That's why the document is a lot out of sync. This is, of course, a technical flaw, speaks and points to something else - that perhaps just with such a large budget is somehow an attempt to blur certain things out [[We can look at pages 15 and 1192, and we're clear.]] . The tables, i.e. the tables, are also vastly opaque, the comparisons are difficult. I mentioned that there is no real diagnosis of the financial situation. The government should come with this clearly for the day, so with these cards. A relatively high inflation has been built up and, under the assumptions that exist, this level of inflation can certainly be exceeded. In the past, however, this has been happening all the time, in recent years that real inflation has exceeded the forecast. What are the key reasons for not achieving these goals? These are inflation generators. The government intends to liberalise certain prices, at least in the first stage this will mean an increase in inflation. It predicts value added tax, an increase in excise duties, all of this will contribute to inflation growth. Finally, the fact that the economists, people, consumers, everything that we are citizens have already incorporated into our own forecast of inflation, that is, expectations. At a time when recession is being declared and we are facing, serious economic politicians do not plan tax hikes. In particular, they shall be released in order to delineate those non-productive costs that only burden the expenditure of the budget. With us, the government has announced an increase and also a real increase, a 5% real increase in public financial spending. The fiscal burdens that follow rapid legislative changes - i.e., everything is being adopted in a fast process - are increasingly uncoordinated. And they are not in line with the international economic market. Above all, the government should commit itself and be aware of the need to impose neutral tax burdens and to influence national savings to increase. Foreign capital inflows are expected to increase. These measures, which can be considered in the Memorandum and then also in explanation, cannot be expected to do so. In Novi Slovenije we expected more from the government to remove administrative obstacles that discourage foreign investors from spending labour, taxes, security of investment, the legal system and corruption. These are all elements that deter investors from investing in our country. It may even happen that the accumulation of the Slovenian economy will move to other countries. At the time of the amendment of the casino tax law, analysts, as well as casinos, stated that our market was not interesting and would invest in foreign countries, other countries. What is happening with some large companies and other companies is also to be understood where Slovenian accumulation is going. There will be more resources for an active employment policy. It is true that the government coalition has listened to some of our amendments, but these amendments were directed by a force modestly and rationally. Because they do not cover certain development goals, but merely and only the minimum need that follows from the laws. In fact, in these items, the government has misjudged the situation. Demographic projections don't hold. The labour force will increase if you look at the trend. At the same time, the government ensures that the number of those leaving the labour market will increase, i.e. retirement or incapacity to work. Now, perhaps he is ruling on something else, a much greater inflow of labour from other countries. There was no explanation for that. Maybe that's it. Selective aid to companies, in particular SMEs, to increase. What is now being done with small businesses is catastrophic. That's a real word. As regards financial transactions, as regards financial services or financial servicing, either by banks or other forms and other sources. The demolition work was initiated by the Government itself by the postponement of payments for operators and the failure to meet the legal deadlines for payments. First of all, this economy began to be indebted - a force of opportunity - in foreign markets, because our banking system does not offer them any real financial support. Now we have the restructuring of SDK and the problem of taking over these functions, financial transactions by banks. This will fall severely after the government and after us, after Parliament, in the coming days or weeks. And we didn't bring this because we were picking points, but because it's real. Because they warned us, and they warned you, too. The formation of the provinces indicated inside will certainly not reduce budgetary costs. This will positively increase administration, increase budget costs. The deficit in the current balance of payments account began with the recession and will continue. Thus, the predictions remain overly optimistic. Decreasing wage growth. That's not true. Despite the adoption of the law yesterday, there will be a real increase in wage growth in the public sector. The sale of state assets to cover mainly public debt and a smaller share for investments. Thank God there is still some state property to cover this budget deficit. But it is very problematic that, during the period of economic conjugation, the debt grew, and the debt of the budget grew. Now the fashion is coming 'dry cows' period, as they say in proverbial terms, and at this time it will be difficult to cope with the recession. When we look at the American economy, before the crisis came, there was a huge surplus of public finances. We will obtain funds from the EU structural funds, there is a claim in there. Dear colleagues and colleagues, which important money from the EU Structural Funds is not expected, certainly not yet in 2002, but also forecasts for the future - I hope that the President will not remind me that I am jumping into the budgets that will follow in 2002. However, even if this happens, we will somehow be levelled, not net beneficiaries, but sooner we can pay more or this thing will be settled. So, at least there's nothing special to count on these assets. Tax debt is 130 billion tolars. It's a state's insolence. Last year the Bajuk government wanted to take seriously those in debt - and what happened? You know, keeping to the law is the most consistent way of justice. The law, if adopted unanimously, democratically, is the first and fundamental element of justice. Minister of Finance, mag. The heist predicts that it will issue more than 200 billion government bonds. I believe that it is aware that these obligations also have an expiration date or that they need to be paid within a certain period of time, not only their nominal value, but all that still stands. What it's going to look like in our country is probably going to be a lot of state documents. Of course, we also have the rehabilitation of banks, those banks that are now happily sold to foreign owners; this remains, according to the Financial Minister, over 600 billion. These are also things that need to be calculated in this budget and, of course, in the next budgets. To perhaps touch some others - transfers to individuals and households. I just want to know which categories are going to get smaller. If the government takes a serious approach and rationalisation in duplicate social transfers, then I fully agree with them and that the target or arrow will not be targeted at the lowest levels. To find out from some social transfers that they increase social disparities rather than reduce them. Health and pension rates of both on the same path of deficits, i.e. insurance, cashier's deficits, which will have to be covered by the budget. This is just some policy direction that's been going on for a while, but it's got the wrong course. In this budget, at least for 2002, this course cannot be anticipated for better or does not appear to be better. I have already mentioned the development of entrepreneurship and small businesses. In order to edit new newspapers, magazines, but not to develop small businesses, a number of other things need to be done, especially proper servicing and other forms of state aid that do not promote wrong market competition or abuse market competition. Infrastructure. It says inside that this basic infrastructure investment will continue. This cannot be seen from the resources allocated to the budget. There will certainly be an increase in funds for these purposes. In particular, I can only mention the administration on the item, this is on page 1192, where the index 119 for administration will reach the other items are below 100%. In order for this not to seem too negative, perhaps he would give some more guidance so that it would not be just criticism.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	One minute, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much, yes. Therefore, the acceleration of foreign investment, public infrastructure investment by the State, the rationalisation of the costs of the State and the saving, the restriction on the growth of the salaries of public servants, privileged double social transfers, then: the burden of operating costs, that the business, market sector is more self-possessed with its accumulation and to contribute to the economy. So, what you've given us on the table is unclear and not worthy of us and the electorate. We should get some clean wine. You did something like that to some farmer who gave a cow a straw and put green glasses on her, thinking she'd be blinded, that the cow would think she'd get a golden weed. That's how it's gonna be with this budget. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Respectable present. The act that we have before us, as a rule or officially bear the title Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. According to the Slovenian National Party, this is a form, or not just a form, but a tax reform. The act that we have before us, we know that it binds other laws, in the future and in the past, to make our country's people, Slovenians and Slovenes even more subject to tax than they are at this moment. In the last period when the budget and budget changes were presented to the public or in the home labour force, the speech was that the current situation was the fault, the global recession, the bombing in the United States. The European Commission's report, which found something new that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia refused to recognise. And a speech about what this budget will bring to the future, for this small country of ours, in particular that we will be more easily integrated into different forms of global integration, so that we are more comparable and similar. It is nice and I think it would be desirable to hear once what the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will do for us, namely the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia. How it will raise the standard of how it will raise the way of life and how it will bring this society, which is unfortunately ruled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at this time, at the head of liberal democracy, to the people. How we will make a friendly country for those of this country, therefore, to the users of the country. In the beginning, I will say that the proposal before us today, namely the proposal for this tax reform in the Slovenian National Party, will not be supported. We will not support the three basic offenses that we cultivate to such a way of playing with the people of our country. First of all, because of the revenue composition. Secondly, because of the budget deficit, which has long been shown to us in a different size than is now shown. Thirdly, due to the possibility of amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia by sent groups or Members. However, given that this is only a presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group or position, I will go to these three categories that I have defined in more detail. First, the composition of revenue for 2002. I'll only touch the 2002 budget. It is in the context of tax revenue, this context of tax revenue is higher than 90 per cent. And non-tax revenue only at a rate of slightly more than 7 percent. What does it mean? This means that this country, this government of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who support this budget, agree that everything that this government or state needs, spends or wants to spend, originates solely from the account of those who are fined or legal persons who are liable to pay taxes. So the formula of the government - which is sitting behind me at this point, not because of my disrespect for them, but because the pay phone is so placed - is very simple. Let's charge taxes to those who have to pay them. Because if they don't pay, we'll sanction them. This represents 90 per cent of our beloved country's budget revenues. Everything else, that is, where the ability of a good host is demonstrated by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, where it represents the management of existing infrastructure facilities, with entrepreneurial ideas, with different concessions, represents less than 10 per cent of the funds that we then spend on the purchase of an aircraft and similar things. Tax revenues, i.e. those which make up more than 90% of all revenue under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, are being tangulated or tangulated by all taxpayers. So we owe them. At the beginning of the year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, its representative, the Minister of Finance, spoke about changing the so-called income scale. He talked about the government becoming more friendly to the socially weak. But it's only on paper or just on words. What actually happened? Instead, we will arrive in January 2002, which means in a few days, for new taxes. The new taxes that we will have to pay in this country, and if I repeat myself from before, if we don't pay them, we will be sanctioned. It's a strange country. VAT. The government appoints an increase in the value added tax rate by anti-cyclical economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! What's that? The introduction of an increased VAT rate is only a utopian fiscal policy created by those who are unable to plan and implement their revenues to the extent comparable to the growth of gross social product, with growth in inflation or economic growth. So we'll get back to that, too. The Minister of Finance said that from the existing 19% VAT will rise to 20% for the so-called 1 percentage point and that the small VAT, which we like to use very much, will increase from 8% to 8.5%. But what does raising VAT on the macroeconomic level mean? Basically, it has effects such as any increase in tax or tax rates. Personal consumption will decrease. The personal consumption of Slovenk and Slovenes will decrease. That's what we're legislating today. We'll make them spend less. This means that the standard of living is falling. Today we are consciously lowering the standard of living. Furthermore, savings continue to decline, investments. So, all four basic elements of macroeconomic policy, i.e. those policies through which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the power to influence as a rule - and the normal government should influence - the growth and promotion of society in our country, the government deliberately pushes down. So it's destroying it. There have been ugly rumors that I don't even want to believe that this is just because when we come to the European Union, we will come as beggars. And of course, because big people prefer beggars, they'll prefer us for that. Let me tell you that there is a value added tax in approximately the same form in other European countries. And let me say some of them, some of them will belong to the European Union, some of them will only belong to the European space and they are not yet in these so-called or so-called European integrations. Germany, 16% tax rate. Let me remind you that Slovenia will move to 20%. For 4% of the points in Germany they have a lower tax than the government plans to burden Slovenia and Slovenia next year. Greece 18%, Luxembourg 15%, the Netherlands 17.5%, Portugal 17%, Spain 16%, the UK 17.5% and Switzerland 7.5%. But no, for the European Union, as far as we are looking at tax rates, we are not interested in what they have there; it is only because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to fill the budget line or budget with normal means or inflows that it will do so by burdening the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But VAT, like - let's say - some kind of tax, of course, has, as I said at the outset, a limiting factor to consumption. So, from raising prices to encouraging basic living goods, the purchasing power of the population mentioned above, to reducing private consumption - and here allow me to stop for a moment. The rapporteur of 15 November 2001, which published the draft budget we are talking about today, says that private consumption is expected to increase by 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, how can private consumption increase if you increase taxes? That's impossible! You will deprive people or deprive us of the available amount of money that we will have and purchase [[This is personal consumption]] On the other hand, you say: despite taking our financial resources, personal spending will be increased. This is illogical and impossible. Next, VAT. In addition to all that I have listed, of course, it reduces demand, which is a logical consequence, because if we have less money, we will buy less, which is called demand, and this will reduce economic growth, which you also plan to increase in the coming years. How? That's impossible, ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say that the private consumption that you have predicted will increase, which is impossible because you will increase the tax, represents about 50% of GDP [[Gross social product]] and is the most important element of economic growth promoters when exported. In the case of exports, we also have about the same picture on this side of the Rapporteur as I mentioned in personal consumption. A few of my fellow Members spoke around VAT before me. Other taxes that are planned to be increased should also be mentioned because, elsewhere, you are not able to: from the health contribution rate to the increase in excise duties and other matters. Let me say that modern economic theories have their own explanation of fiscal policy, which is very simple, and these legalitys have been in place in the so-called capitalist world for several years. If tax rates increase, the income of the population decreases, demand decreases, consumption decreases and employment decreases. Therefore, we will achieve those effects against which we are fighting our entire mandate, all previous mandates and to which the Republic of Slovenia has been seeking independence from the outset. No, today by agreeing to higher taxes, we are deliberately going to make this nation poor, and that is what we accept today. The effect that I have just said, namely the impact of tax or tax change on the one hand and its impact on major macroeconomic instruments on the other, is particularly dangerous when the government - and this generally applies to incompetent governments - tries to achieve higher budgetary revenues with this change. Here comes the fear of inflationary effects on price growth. Ladies and gentlemen. There will be an element that was in our territory, or below, then it was called otherwise, the SFRJ, was even more up to date. With an increased rate of tax, in particular with a view to filling the budget deficit, we are also deliberately causing inflation. In his opening speech, the Minister of Finance said that in 2003 the government of the Republic of Slovenia would not start to wonder about inflation. Today we are legislating it, although we know what the minister also admits that in a good year we will begin to save it. Or is it not meaningful and logical, I will use the word rationally, because everyone likes to use it so much that we can stop inflation today rather than treat it in two years when inflation is here and when it comes to all the seasons of our society. Clearly, then, these things are of little interest to you to find for them obedience or salvation. I said that the second segment, which we oppose in the Slovenian National Party and why we will not agree to adopt this budget, at least on our part, is a budget deficit. Various sizes or estimates have appeared. In our opinion, according to the European Commission's report, 125 billion Slovenian tolars are or will amount to 2.5% of the gross social product. So, we need to be aware that this is a planned deficit. What will happen when there is realisation on the one hand of revenue, on the other hand, of expenditure under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? This problematic budget deficit, which even Europe is reminding us at this time, will continue to grow until recently, until a few weeks ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claimed that the budget deficit in our country is not problematic. 125 billion deficits! Where it leads, you can probably all imagine. Let me tell you that, from a historical point of view, the 1995 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where the expenditure amounted to 500 billion and in, say, 2002, that is, the budget we are currently accepting is expenditure of 1350 billion. Thus, expenditure increased by over 100 percent over the seven years in this country. This would be understandable if we had 100 % inflation in Slovenia if we had 100 % economic growth in Slovenia. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are creating an imbalance in the fiscal, monetary area of the Republic of Slovenia, to which the government and which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia control - in my opinion, a failed government - is doing so on purpose because only a hungry people, a destitute people, are spinning with promises, because they are not left with another. And the third issue, given the fact that I have only 4 minutes 33 left, is changes or additions to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, in the parliamentary democracy that it is supposed to be in Slovenia, people's loved representatives have the opportunity to participate in decisions. One of these decisions is the budget. We're supposed to be able to table amendments. But it was to the wishes of the Liberal Democracy and its leader, Mr Anderlic, that we, or you, changed the Rules of Procedure in February of this year, that you made it impossible. Yeah, blink with your hands. By making it impossible for a good third of the parliamentary groups to submit an amendment to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You've forfeited your fundamental right! Even more. You have come to the point that you have achieved from parliamentary democracy that it is easier to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, for which 20 signatures of Members are sufficient, than to table an amendment to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for which 23 signatures must be made. Please, sir! [[Mr. President, may I ask you to calm Mr. Anderlich?]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you. This budget is geared towards an increase in the inflationary movements of the Republic of Slovenia. This budget is geared towards increased unemployment in our country. And this budget is geared towards a smaller consumption of the country. It is up to us: whether we accept it or not, we will give the green light to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue or not with this strategy, which is harmful to our country. We will not support such a budget in the Slovenian National Party. However, responsibility will be given to those who support it and thereby give the green light to make this country even more poor than it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Kebrich will speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Dear government officials, ministers, ministers and others! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, I will not go into individual parts of the budget, as the speakers have done to a large extent, as the opportunity for these segments will be to speak on the amendments. Let me say that we are pleased with this fact, for the first time, that the financial year is 12 months from 1 January to 31 December and that it does not prolong what has happened in the past, even for certain days and weeks, and is thus obtained: not only by income or income for 12 months, but even by 13. Secondly, we welcome in our Group that we have a budget ahead of us for the next two years, but we will discuss each year separately. We believe that for two years ahead, for each year 2002 and 2003, it is both for those in charge of charging the budget, the revenue side, as for those counting on budgetary expenditure, to know what and how to plan for them to have a vision and perspective, how they are doing. The budget of the country can be compared to the budget of the family where the basic rule applies: cover as much as the "coca" debt. However, it can also be extended by additional purchases or additional debt in other words. An additional debt may be justified only if it repays you within a certain period of time for which you have borrowed credit and not only that, but also interest, but also a certain profit. For otherwise this credit, such an obligation, has no justification nor is it economic nor rational. On the other hand, we feel that it is right to visualize what is necessary. Look, we're meeting the next one. How to plan or draw up a budget? Since we are a coalition party, we have already had the opportunity to recall or highlight some of the things that our party and its exposition, the parliamentary group in this national assembly, are taking. We believe that the priority of certain areas covered by the State budget is important. This priority is given by us, on the one hand, when we have said and adopted certain laws that have their budgetary responsibilities. It is not acceptable for any minister to say, but I will not fulfill this obligation of marriage, but it will be later rectified: I will, but I do not know when the funds will be. If we look at this, this segment on the expenditure side then we know how much we possibly have at our disposal of the rest, for the urgent needs that we consider useful and necessary. On the income side, I propose to the Minister of Finance and the entire staff that we look at the following. Let's not put the burden on the social sector and others first, but let's look at ourselves and look at ourselves, because our constitution states that we are a social state. Here, however, we need to find a balance between individual budgetary users. In our group, we are aware that the foundation is an economy. For the economy to function well in the future, there is a basis for progress in knowledge. That is why these are the first two priorities, and the economy can benefit in the short term - from year to year - from investment in knowledge to training staff a little more in the long term, because they cannot be trained in a year, two and so on. But if we look at how certain segments of the budget are set, even when we look at the amendments, we see that the issue is at the heart of the priorities highlighted by individual policy options. For such or other reasons - I do not want to expose myself to certain criticisms - is more of a priority or, more to say, a more important area, another. I have listed what is a hierarchy or priorities for our democratic party of pensioners. If we turn now to spending: saving-yes, but: where and how. Progress in mechanics, techniques, also requires progress in knowledge. This has to go hand in hand. And here in the public sector, if I turn around or first look at the expenditure side, we see in our parliamentary group still large reserves, not only by forgiving certain - forgive, under the terms - 'excessive labour force', but mainly by redirecting, by restructuring, by additional education, so that we can make better and otherwise use them, because large reserves are still in working time, we see large reserves in our progress in technology to better equip ourselves, as we live in the age of information society, machinery and so on. Now, on the income side. Here we stand - not first of all for the new burdens of taxes, excise duties, contributions, but first of all for the consistent recovery of these taxes, contributions and excise duties so that they will not be so late, and here we appeal to the third branch of power, it is for the judiciary to take these matters more up-to-date, more current, more priority. Here we will be in our parliamentary group in case there is a need to amend such or other legislation, which would better benefit from this consistent up-to-date recovery of all these duties that I have listed, give all the assistance, and we believe that it is imperative that, after our assessment, certain criminal codes as such change, as we read every week - not only once - how someone has brought in, if I say domestically, 'round' the country; otherwise, it is said how he has hidden taxes, how he is late with or not paying contributions at all. Time makes me feel like I'm not going to let go of myself, but I'm going to say the following. All those on the dozens of pages who have written the amendments must say that in a particular analysis that we have done in our parliamentary group, we have found that some have taken purely out of their political options in the same account carrier and given one to the other because it is their political perspective of obtaining certain voters. On the other hand, when we took a closer look at this analysis, we found out - we believe and we know that not everyone knew who else he would take, whose account he would get the money for whoever he wanted to give it to. And what happened? We have found that there are four areas where all employees in that ministry, or in that ministry not only give up their salaries, but give their wages or their salaries to cover what is needed in that regard. Because some took more than that ministry, or that job, or that segment at all. We therefore expected that today we could get an alternative to this budget, that they would set up another budget, which, of course, will be balanced again, when we believe that on the one hand, there is too much, too high, especially on the side of the expenditure on the other hand, pessimists claim that there is too much on the income side, we represent a position of real optimism in this direction that only the courage and only those perspectives and only the opportunities that further force you to increase your commitment to gain new markets, to replace what happens to turn out to be only such courage, only such reality and entrepreneurship can lead us to the realization of this budget as it is proposed. This optimism must be the basis for all those who fill the income side. On the other hand, this optimism must not be a basis for those consumers of budgetary resources, but for them the motto and only objective must be rationality, rationalisation, economic progress and better exploitation of what they already have and by purchasing better means of rationalisation and, above all, greater productivity. In our parliamentary group, we will accept the budget submitted with the knowledge that it is truly optimistic and that it will be necessary for the national assembly to be also through its institutions and in the areas of monitoring the implementation of this budget, so that there will be no abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. This concludes the morning part of the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick it up at 2.30. The first one will have the word, Mr Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government, we continue the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 11th extraordinary meeting, on 28.11.2001, Bogdan Barovič for all day, Mario Gasparini for the afternoon part of the session, Dorian Marshič for the afternoon part of the meeting, and Tsveta Zalokar Orazam for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask for your attention. We're picking up the presence! There are 45 of us present. Procedural proposal, Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Yeah, I find my device obviously doesn't work because I couldn't sign up. I'm asking you to check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Mr. Kavčič, thank you very much. If you pull again and then insert the card again, it is repeatedly in such a case - please check now if the device will work, otherwise we will ask for the help of the technical service. [[...]] We repeat for the first time our presence. We're picking up the presence! There are 48 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In this morning's work, he presented to us his position on the draft budget for 2002 of five parliamentary groups. So in this part, we continue. The opinion of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented to us by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The State budget is a key political and, in particular, a public finance document in each country. That is why my performance, in which I will present the position of the Group of Members, will be so political and will also address some of the current issues of the public financial moment of Slovenia today and in the future. In one way or another, the state budget reflects the development, economic, social and, of course, always the political direction of each government. What is the orientation of the current government, which, in line with political support in recent elections, is the representatives of all the key three European political groups: liberal, social democratic and human conservative. Is the political direction of the government a synthesis of all three or a summary of all three? This is what the coalition treaty is supposed to discuss in more detail. The question is whether synthesis is even possible. When I was preparing for this performance, and when I looked at and looked through my papers, I realized that we had 11 before us, and then there would be a 12th draft of the state budget signed by Dr. Janez Drnovšek. Eleven or 12 successive state budgets. In fact, Dr. Janez Drnovšek himself answered this question when he represented a two-year budget in the National Assembly a good month ago when he said: "We continue to pursue a balanced development policy in these budgets, so it would be difficult to talk about individual budgetary priorities. We also want to continue to maintain a relatively good dynamic of economic growth while ensuring as much social balance as possible in the country. A relatively balanced development in various areas is the main feature of the Slovenian model in the last decade. "Here may be the answer to the question of what is this key direction of governments and governments. It is a matter of balanced development. The question that opens up is, what is the price of this balance? In the introduction, I would like to say that Members of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party will support the 2002 budget, and I will say the same in the next item for 2003. We support the basic objectives of economic policy, as enshrined in the Memorandum, the knowledge-based society, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy, the reform of public and state administration, regionally more coherent development - we also want to be active here, not least, this is obviously a topic that is becoming a political "shagger" in Slovenia. We support the maintenance of the social standards achieved in the field of social development and the protection of the environment. We also believe in the parliamentary group that the budgetary areas that will be a priority in 2002 have been well chosen: education, in particular access to studies for all social groups, health care. We especially hope that something has finally moved through the construction of a pediatric clinic. We also support the construction of an oncology institute. With regard to social protection, we strongly support the government's direction, which is reflected in the increased rights of parental protection and family benefits, which have a solid basis for dealing with the adopted law. By the way, we are pleased that, with our insistence in the last years of this and the previous reference by our fellow Members, the law will gradually introduce a provision that children's allowances will be 20% higher for those children who are not in kindergarten and are protected by their parents at home. We also support the direction that the state budget for science and technology will be increased four times in four years. We support investment in road infrastructure as well as the construction of the highway cross. We support the informationisation of the administration and, last but not least, the country's concern for coherent regional development, the development of the Slovenian countryside, to support Slovenian agriculture before the key years prior to joining the European Union. As a government party, we have particularly supported, including in discussions with coalition partners, that the government has also added funds in the supplementary draft budget to the cemetery arrangements. We are confident that this will bring about our joint decision to resolve the painful issues of post-war beatings with great readiness in Slovenian society. On all of this and on many others it is written on 3,339 pages of the two-year budget and on the additional 492 pages of the supplementary draft budget. Will Slovenia as a country manage all these obligations? One of the key issues could also be: what is the reserve that Slovenia has prepared or reserved in good times in the last five years, when we have shown good economic results, with growth in the economy of around 4.5%? How did she use the years of fat cows to prepare for the years of dry cows that always come, or did we set up in good times such economic instruments that will be successful under the conditions of recession? The analysis shows that Slovenia has had a high share of public expenditure in gross national product over the past two years, that the tax-added tax deficit - there has been a lot of talk today - and that despite good economic growth, it has had a rather high budget deficit. It is important to commend the Government's efforts to create a longer-term, more stable macroeconomic situation and thus a better economic growth situation through the draft budget for the next two years. In this place, it must be emphasized that you are such a magician. Robbery as his co-worker, State Secretary mag. Kamnareva, together with her colleagues, did a difficult job, of course in cooperation with colleagues in the government. At the same time, however, it has to be said that the government is actually in the awkward, almost impossible time to enter into the instrument of multi-annual or two-year budgets, as it stemmed from the world economy that ruled in the years 2000 and in part early this year, which was marked by a high foreign demand for our products. At the time the budget was drawn up, however, the situation changed and became unpredictable. Global economic growth assessments are changing increasingly down and no one can confidently predict economic growth in the so-called crisis economic and international political conditions that have taken place since 11 September this year. Despite these facts, the government remains optimistic. At this point, I quote from Minister Petrinova, who said at a business conference a few days ago in Portorož: "Despite the decline in economic growth, Slovenia can count on two positive elements. Large multinationals will reduce production volumes within their own company and will become more connected to suppliers. The demand for products from Slovenian companies, in particular those that are the most important suppliers of multinationals, will also be strengthened." Another optimism: "Tourism can also count on greater growth, because tourists will focus on continental Europe because of fear of flight." It must be said that it is understandable that each government must create economic optimism by the nature of its activities, which is particularly true for the period of economic recession. It is essential, however, that the government proposes measures to ensure that its optimism has real foundations. It should also be added that, regardless of the political diversity of the current government, it is still considered that economic conditions determine and condition what economic policy will be applied, not just the political colours of the current government. So what does the government propose with its complicated budget equation with more strangers? The following assessments I'm going to make are direct. In fact, they do not reflect the government or opposition holding of an individual Member or of a parliamentary group. However, there is a responsible view of the government's parliamentary party on the difficult public financial situation of Slovenia.With our political power, as we have been entrusted to us in the last elections, with our co-responsibility to the government and with clear views, we would like to talk about these issues. The government in the 2002 budget plans to increase the budget deficit. First of all, I commend the government for its crucial decision that this year the government has recognised the additional deficit that has emerged as a result of the postponement of budgetary funding in January next year. However, it must be openly acknowledged that the deficit is still due to the pressures on budgetary spending. Here I will be alone or all those who, as Members of the past weeks, have proposed an increase in the budget lines will fall into the trap. It is also a trap for the support of the Government, which I have originally expressed, for its targeted policies and priority budgetary areas, because many of them are insatiable and require large budgetary resources. Nevertheless, these questions need to be discussed. Here I would like to paraphrase the distinguished Slovenian macro-economyist, Professor Senjur, who exclaimed: "When will Slovenia get a strong conservative party who knows and can say no is enough?" Or as he replied: "In my opinion, all the parties in Slovenia are essentially a social democratic party. The only question remains how much more or less a party is a Social Democratic. For such customers, it is typical that they have problems with the budget on the expenditure side and inflation side. The key problem in Slovenia is that we do not have a party that is conservative in economic terms, which would in fact advocate saving, reducing taxes, stable prices, functioning of strict competition on the market, strict budgetary discipline. For economic conservatives, these are the best conditions for the economy." End of quote. I wonder if that's the kind of party the electorate would ever vote for. It should also be said that the budget deficit generates salaries in the public sector, public debt servicing costs, including the share of the budget for the PPIZ, all in conjunction with unforeseen high inflation rates and reduced domestic demand. The adoption of the two-year State budget is accompanied by parallel efforts to reduce public debt by selling state property, with a forecast of an increase in value added tax, which is a final consumption tax. I am convinced that the debate on taxes is a key and legitimate debate at each time on state budgets. The government is also proposing one-off increases in budgetary resources, such as concessions for mobile telephony. The government has consciously decided to artificially boost economic growth by increasing state investment. The government responded to the risk of recession with a strengthened counter-recession fiscal policy. Certainly, the importance of housing construction, which is an important economic multiplier, must also be stressed here. With regard to the increase in value added tax, it should be noted that it is a decision which is understandable that has not been taken by favour in business circles. If we were to accept it with affection, it would be unnatural. Yeah, that's what it sounds like, the Slovenian economic profession supports. The question is raised as to whether it is opportunistic to raise the tax rate for current economic reasons, such as the decline in economic growth. A change in the value added tax rate would make sense if we wanted to bring the revenue composition closer to those in the European Union, it is said that by increasing taxes on consumption and capital, we would compensate for the loss of revenue generated by a relatively reduced labour tax. The reduction of these burdens, as foreseen by the Pay Tax Act, is foreseen, but is relatively small. Moreover, unfortunately, for at least once, higher levels of value added tax are not accompanied by social-thinking corrections in the income law. The decision to increase economic growth by accelerating state investment is a classic Kenyan method. It is understandable that private companies will respond to smaller economic growth by delaying investment. At the same time, it is only important to note that we will be sponsoring the walking economic growth, which is mainly due to developments in international economic flows, with a slightly higher consumption in the national budget at home. Here is the question that has its weight: Is there a certain contribution to economic growth that will arise in this way so important that we will rent an additional deterioration of the budgetary balance? It is also necessary to mention the concerns of some of the best Slovenian economists when budgets adapt to the peaks of economic growth instead of their averages. This is an integrated model of systemic error, which is repeated from year to year. A similar role has been played once a year with regard to the growth of the economy. This may sometimes be inappropriate, as very convincing economic growth can also be artificially inflated. Since we know and know each other, or know the dominant mentality, once the composition of budgetary expenditure increases spending, it is no longer possible to reduce next year. That's our psychology, too. Rather, this reduction is extremely painful, and it is very difficult for the Finance Minister. On this side, we express our support for efforts to remove the indexation and not be blasphemous to eliminate the escalation clauses in collective agreements. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The long-term solution to the budget deficit can only be in the implementation of government policies that reduce budgetary spending. The relationship between public and private sector salaries needs to be corrected, which can have a significant impact on the labour market. The inadequate ratio between the price of work in the public and private sectors results in an inefficient distribution of labour because more and more workers want to work in the public sector. We must not forget when and rightly talk about foreign investment in Slovenia that it still applies when foreigners are interested in investment in Slovenia and, for example, call the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, ask only two short questions: How much on average is the hourly item in the Slovenian industry and how much is a kilohour of energy for the industry? In our party we greatly appreciate the model of social partnership, but this model works when it is balanced. It seems that in this triangle, union workers and employers, the latter, employers, are becoming weaker and weaker. I'm going to conclude by asking if the government has any other room for manoeuvre. Unfortunately, this raises the classic budgetary, political, public finance issue, the issue of taxes again. It is ungrateful to recall the taxation of property, in particular luxury goods. It is most likely unthankful to mention that with car excise duties we have not fully compensated for the loss of traffic tax, not to mention the decision that is most likely to await us and is a classic European category - it is taxation of bank interest. All these decisions, however, require a lot of courage and consistency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Honourable Vice-President, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In presenting the opinions of the LDS Group, I will try to limit myself, in particular, to those content sets that are specific to the updated draft budget for 2002, and I will try to avoid longer elaborations relating to the budget than that. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the most important content sets that will be very important in the implementation of the 2002 supplementary draft budget. In the LDS Group, we estimate that the government has managed to draw up a relatively good supplementary draft budget for 2002 and has managed to take into account to a large extent some fundamental assumptions such as the preservation of a nominally unchanged deficit, the restructuring of budgetary expenditure in order to help counter-cyclical functioning of the country, the presence of a trend in curbing wage growth in the public sector, and that the conclusions of the national assembly's home labour bodies have been taken as fully as possible into account. The proposal of the supplementary draft budget also respects the relationship that the budget is not a compromise between the work of the value-added company and the work of the company that is spending it, but that in the long-term creation of a social product, to the extent that it is balanced, different sectors of society are involved. We estimate that the principle of two-year budgets has begun to introduce a new quality in public finances: elements of rationality and long-termness, an opportunity to gradually begin to disappear that classic budgetary thinking, where sometimes it is quick to try to use, in the domestic sense, to smoke up certain funds in order to ensure a sufficiently high starting position for the coming period. In the discussions on the supplementary draft budget, the terms of optimism- pessimism were used quite often. These terms of this category are probably not the most appropriate when we talk about public finances, about the economy, about the budget. For example, if we take, for example, the Slovenian stock exchange index, which exceeded the limit of 1,100 points, 2,100 points, thank you very much. Yeah, you could say it's worrying that he came so high. What happens now? Now he's gonna have to fall. But if you were low, you'd say, "Of course it's low, because everything's wrong." Thus, the right approach can be a positive approach based on a knowledge of respect for all the limiting factors, but not in moaning and deepening into problems, in their knowledge and in their search for opportunities for growth. We estimate that the proposaler has managed to incorporate sufficiently those fundamental principles that we have already confirmed in previous programming documents. This is the creation of a knowledge-based society, including the development of an information society, that it has contributed to or started to further strengthen the budget, has set up certain conditions that will allow the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy to be further strengthened, that the elements of social cohesion are sufficiently involved, that the draft budget will give the headlines for a more efficient, more people-friendly state administration, that we have incorporated sufficiently largely the elements of sustainable development and that the element of the goal of integration into the European Community and NATO is also sufficiently present. Topics based on some intergenerational compromise were mentioned. Finally, the Intergenerational Compromise is a very hot topic of providing the necessary volume of funds to regulate the so-called hidden graves. Why am I talking about the need for a calm intergenerational compromise? We may also not be aware of the fact that in that final period of World War II and after the liberation, Slovenia was a rather unfortunate bottleneck of large rivers, large rivers of people, mainly from various Balkan regions, that there was a drama on poor Slovenian territory, that there were killings, which perhaps represented a significant percentage of the fight of the Neslovences and their tragedies in Slovenian territory. This should not be forgotten in our thinking about regulation, marking and perhaps even successful debates. Why did I say "successful debates"? Because there was a drama in Slovenian territory, which in its large part was the result of the drama of the entire area of the former Yugoslavia. In implementing the 2002 supplementary draft budget, of course, we will try to support the government in further professionalising the approach, including in the process of privatising banks and insurance companies. This is a topic that will also largely define certain elements of the 2002 budget. We will try to contribute and also expect the government to be able to weigh wisely between the financial interests of the State and the need to ensure a free entrepreneurial spirit in some important segments of the Slovenian economy. Of course, we have a slightly different situation here when we're talking about banks, and again when we're talking about insurance companies. In the case of Slovenian banks, we also expect and positively assess an in-depth re-thinking on the basis of feedback that comes with regard to the various modalities of this process, but let us not forget that, in fact, the privatisation of Slovenian banking is strongly expected from this government; it has been requested and rightly requested. Of course, we welcome the reflections in the Slovenian government, which go in the direction of rebalancing, in a direction that we understand as not necessarily "sale" under the slogans, the pearls of Slovenian financial space, but that it is wise to place this privatisation process in certain stages and to realize it gradually. It is also very important how this insurance process will be implemented. We must also be aware here that Slovenian insurance is on some long-term path from the former very monopolistic insurance space into a perspective based on private insurance companies, and that it will also be necessary here both by representatives of government, state interest as well as by the interests of management and already nominated owners of insurance companies to make a great deal of professional effort, to weigh certain categories that are difficult to weigh with naked theoretical instruments. For example, it is difficult to weigh the value of the trade mark of the Triglav insurance company; how valuable the years are when the Slovenian company participated in the construction of this brand; how important it is that, unlike the banks where the transition meant the collapse of a large number of banking clients, in the area of insurance, this logic is of course significantly different - if for example the client of the insurance undertaking fails, this does not mean the collapse of the principal, but this means that one of the insurers has stopped paying the premium. These are the finesse that will have to be taken into account with a high degree of calm, correctness, honesty in order to ensure the successful development of Slovenian insurance and to ensure in a fair manner the financial, material interest of the State. A reasonable attitude in thinking about foreign and domestic capital will be needed, as we say. Certain stereotypes will have to be abandoned. In the debates, we often track opinions, privatise banks, but let us privatise them with the help of Slovenian owners. In this request, a certain contradiction is concealed. In fact, it is more reasonable to talk about either state or private. We must be aware that as soon as we speak in private, of course we have entered the free movement of capital. It is also possible to predict that sometimes the interests of narrower groups, which sometimes hide very direct financial interests for noble syntagms, are hidden in these stereotypes. Or another example: it is impossible to automatically assume that Slovenian banks are developmentally oriented when talking about the interest of the Slovenian economy and businesses. We have quite a few cases where Slovenian banks do not represent some long-term development interest, but are also willing to jeopardise the existence of some companies in favour of their short-term financial interest. To some extent, it makes sense. In the implementation of the 2002 budget, of course, we will expect our government to further strengthen its hearing for development opportunities. The stagnant situation in the Western European economy can also be an opportunity for a certain part of our most vital part of the economy. I don't want to be the one to sow some optimism here, but I want to warn you, for example, about the insemination of the industry's components for automotive production. This is a segment that already represents more than 4 billion marks of annual exports. I myself know a number of companies that can also take advantage of the stagnant situation in the West as their additional business opportunity. However, we will have to sharpen our hearing and a positive attitude towards exports. It is concerned that a number of economists, with a certain degree of skepticism, express exports and blame exports for value added tax losses. We believe that the situation needs to be seen in its entirety in the following order: exports are the generator of some realisation, without which, of course, there can be no imports. Active exports, increasing exports, also make it possible to import, which is, of course, a rich source of value added tax. We are all aware that the instruments of direct export promotion are, of course, incompatible with the principles of the WTO and the European Community. We believe, however, that it will be possible and necessary to find some instruments to strengthen those segments of the Slovenian economy that are capable of providing faster development in this stagnant situation of the Western economy. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will therefore support the government's draft budget for 2002. We will also support all amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The opinion of the national community will be presented by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! In these budget debates, you have repeatedly heard our disagreement with the estimated sum for budget item 5205, the nationalities community in Slovenia. We have warned that budget makers have not taken into account the needs of the nation, that they have not consulted us and that we have repeatedly asked them for an interview, but in vain. Thus, the provisions of Article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities were not taken into account, under which every law governing the lives of national communities should take into account the opinion of national communities. Thus, the budgetary sums were foreseen for various activities of the national communities with a negative omen, sometimes 88% - this is the case for 2002 and especially for 2003. Various commissions, especially the National Community Commission and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, have listened to and highlighted this problem, and have also supported amendments that have provided for very modest sums that will barely be indexed in individual years. So we had to ask for 3 million SITs, once again for 3 million SITs, for 8 million SITs and for an investment of 25 million. These amendments only allow for the survival of national communities, and in the event of non-admission there will be an end to individual activities in the field of culture and information technology. About SIT 400 million is foreseen for the activities of both nationalities and the functioning of their institutions. The two-year envisaged amendments total around SIT 100 million. I think it's hard to save more money. We are in favour of saving as we should in all segments of our lives, but I believe that if the government is serious about the exercise of national rights and the protection of nationality, more will be needed than has been offered. In particular, there will be a need for a different attitude in planning. I am sorry that the government has once again managed to bring nationality to its knees and, at least so I hope, only with the help of Members will we be able to improve the opportunities for nationality a little bit. I therefore propose that you support the amendments relating to the national community, which have also been adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for its own. For a better future of nationality, however, we expect a serious discussion with our fellow Member with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the final opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Respectable National Assembly, government representatives. The National Assembly is ahead of one of the key tasks this year, including innovation, the adoption of the 2002 and 2003 budget. With regard to the budget, it is a custom or apparently already a practice for the government as a proposaler to claim that there can be no better and more appropriate budget. We have doubts about this in the Party of Young Slovenia, and rightly so, because we are tired of the stories about savings and development budgets. Obviously, today's proposal is no exception to the planned spending as a framework, but not to the revenues that are usually unrealistically optimistically planned, which is especially true for this year's situation when we are approaching recession at home and in the world. Already in presenting the initial draft budget, we have noted that the draft budget was written in the summer when the planned economic growth looked real and, above all, high. Even if the government does not believe in such economic growth, it has demonstrated that it has taken account of a reduction in economic growth of 0.6 percentage points, i.e. 3.6 percent in the preparation of the supplementary draft budget. Economists warn us that this forecast is too high and that in the central bank, even 3% of economic growth, which is not yet in line with the latest data, has been shown by August calculations. These will most likely show an even worse picture of GDP growth. Of course, the government announced an increase in the value added tax rate by one percentage point or a half percentage point at a reduced VAT rate in response to the lower planned revenue to the state budget. This measure is expected to bring 24.3 billion to the state treasury next year, and an additional 2.2 billion in 2003. However, this measure does not only have a positive impact on the increase in national revenues and thus the maintenance of the budget deficit at the planned level, but it is likely to have an indirect impact on higher product prices and thus reduce consumption under the assumption of unchanged citizens' incomes. The burden on the economy with taxes and contributions will also not allow them to compete in domestic and foreign markets. This year's export rate has only increased to account for the expansion and opening of markets in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which is no longer expected in the coming years. That, even from the most important source of income, value added tax, not reaching the planned income, it was clear already when we read the report on the implementation of the budget for the first half of this year. In the first half of the year, only slightly more than 40 per cent of all planned revenues were received and only 35 per cent of the planned annual VAT inflow was paid. This year the government also admitted for the first time that the deficit in the state treasury was greater than it had claimed so far. Finally, transfers of December commitments to the new financial year will be abolished and the way in which it allowed the government to show a smaller budget deficit is abolished, as was the case in fact. There is also a dispute over the government's conduct, which brings planned revenue from telecommunications concessions into the budgetary use of this year, rather than earmarking this revenue to reduce public debt. It is known that the government has already signed a concession agreement with Mobil and the entire amount of concession is expected to be paid this year. Thus, the government has also translated the share of payments that should be paid next year into this year's budget. If public finances have long been not all right and the state is in debt across all borders, it should be clear from the Government's proposal to amend the Public Finance Act, which increases the ceiling on the eligible level of liquidity indebtedness from the previous 5 per cent to 8 per cent of the budget adopted. During the recession, which is also starting in Slovenia, the country should encourage investment. The government boasted at a high investment rate in the past year, but in reviewing the structure of these investments, we find that a large proportion of the money devoted to investment has been earmarked by the State for the construction of motorways. Of course, good infrastructure in the country is an important indicator of development, but investment in motorways in the future will not have any direct impact on economic progress. Investments that can have a long-term impact on economic growth, the competitiveness of Slovenian companies and which will attract foreign investors are, above all, investments in knowledge. The high investment rate is important when we talk about investments in the introduction of new technologies, exports and imports, in measures to reduce unemployment and so on. But that can only be achieved with knowledge. It does not matter that every year the government declares how high investment we have in Slovenia, if these are primarily state investments that will not bring economic progress. Therefore, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia we support high levels of education and all those areas which would enable young people of Slovenia to receive appropriate education. In the years following the independence of Slovenia, Slovenia witnessed major changes in the school system, scholarship policy, social transfers, and could even be listed. In drawing up the budget, the government is still focusing on increasing revenue rather than focusing on the expenditure side. Wages, social transfers and interest represent too much of the budget, as the government only buys social peace by increasing wages in the public sector. The government should follow the objective of lagging behind wages for productivity in public administration. In particular, there is caution in the negotiation of collective agreements. The economy, in particular the Chamber of Economics, draws attention to the problem of wage taxation in its views. The events of the last few months, which have been calling for a more restrictive public financial policy, are because the fact that revenues like the promised government are not to be expected is not the case. We are certainly pleased that the indices in the fields of education, science, health care and social inclusion are high. These are also the priorities of the Young Slovenia Party and we have therefore tabled amendments to the draft budget and to the supplementary draft budget to increase funding for the construction of student homes, local community scholarship funds, the transport of students, disabled persons, young researchers and the construction of youth accommodation. We are confident that if our amendments are supported, at least a little will help to improve and facilitate the education of young people. In the Young Slovenia Party, it is recalled that in these areas spending limitation is harmful and unnecessary. Restraints are needed in other areas. Unfortunately, these areas remain intact and overblown in the government budget. The government, for reasons of peace and internal tensions in the coalition, has concluded unfavourable compromises, which disproportionately generate wage growth, consumption not intended for development, but for the privilege of certain stakeholders. The economic situation is deteriorating, not only because of external factors, but also because of the past fiscal debt policy for the public sector, but not for the needs of activities that bring more added value. In the next two years, the government will have to lower inflation and increase other economic indicators so that we can be serious candidates for entry into the so-called European Union. In principle, the country should not spend more than it has. This will not be possible even after the most optimistic predictions for several years. But if we do the budget the way we do now, we will never succeed, and the next generation will have an even worse journey for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the parliamentary groups on the 2002 state budget proposal. So we're done with this work. We are now moving on to a debate on individual parts of the complementary draft state budget. As an individual part, it is considered to be a general part, a specific part and a development programme plan. When interviewing individual Members and Members, I would like to clarify once again that the general part of the budget consists of a common balance of revenue and expenditure, an account of financial claims and investments, and an account of funding. We will therefore have a first debate on the general work to the extent that I have just presented under the Public Finance Act. Then we'll make that decision. After that, we will move on to a specific part, which consists of financial plans of direct users. There are also amendments, and we will decide on them. And that's all there is to it. We will then move on to the consideration of the development programme plan, which consists of annual plans or plans for direct user development programmes, which are defined by documents of long-term development planning with specific laws and other regulations. We will hold a debate and also decide on this work separately. Then we will make a full decision on the draft budget for 2002. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you very much to take this into account in the general debates so that we do not repeat ourselves in the debates. We are therefore moving on to the general part of the proposed supplementary budget. We are moving on to a general debate. In this part they have applied in writing for the debate and are allowed to discuss in an unlimited manner the following Members: first Dr. Miha Brejc, then Mr. Samo Bevk, Jožef Jerovšek and Aloyz Sok. I give my word to Dr. Mihu Brajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I will discuss the general part of the budget for 2002 because the budget for 2003 is not even worth it, because it is a sum of some numbers, which even the Minister himself says are of such nature that, I quote, "the 2003 spring budget debate is undoubtedly necessary". The general part of the 2002 budget reflects the alarming state of public finances and unfortunately the outlook for even worse times than we have been used to in recent years. The words I am hearing here today by the government, in these budgetary debates, which Drnovšk's government is still using today, remind me very much of the words of the Yugoslav government before the near bankruptcy in those years 1979, 1982, so to speak. Minister Rob and the government are trying to show the financial problems of this country and the budget as a result of this year's events, including the projected economic growth and, of course, they are also right in this part. That's right. Our system framework also determines our conditions. There's no doubt about that. However, we must not forget the fact that today's financial situation is also a consequence, and to a large extent, the past wrong decisions, the failed economic policies of the Drnovskov government. The government predicts restrictions in many areas, introduces higher taxes, excise duties, etc., restricts public sector employment, despite the fact that such behaviour is not comparable to the European countries to which it likes to be compared. The constraints in the area of, say, employment that you are predicting today, or with this budget, talk about not having new jobs, etc., are such that a person unfortunately cannot believe them. Drnovšk's government is, and I can tell you now, well known for multiplying offices, agencies, funds, etc. in the last decade, so much so that God help us, and that no reform will help us when we try to rationalise this administration. It is also clear that the requirements of the European Union are leading towards greater bureaucracy in Slovenia. And I'm not against the European Union, but there are some notorious facts that we need to take into account. It's wrong now if, I don't know, for some other reason, we close our eyes and say, "We're not going to increase the administration." Every time the government has announced this, the administration has increased, and so will the post. The budget may sometimes show a tendency to save. But the government doesn't save on itself, it doesn't look like it does, but it demands on others. If people need to understand that difficult times are coming, I have not yet heard this today, that we will have to tighten our belts, but there is very little to do, and there is also some kind of saying by the government. And the government continues to meet, like on the Hill, and it spends money. Bajuk's government only met once on the Hill and then paid the bill itself. I don't think there's anyone else. Of course, you can now mock this manner, but that is how people who have a responsible attitude toward public finances act. We're talking about economic growth, you're talking about, you're predicting lower economic growth. This is understandable to me, and I understand that correction was needed at this time. However, I would also expect the government to come with a clear picture of its own actions. So we are witnessing daily statements to economists saying how their business partners abroad are gripping the scene if you don't drop the price for 5 percent, I don't know, maybe even more, we won't renew the contract with you and we'll buy it elsewhere. This is certainly a very heavy pressure for economists. However, in this budget, at least I have failed and I also see that others do not, to find steps that would go in this direction. And we would say, well, if it's an economic recession now, a major problem, then the government has to make such an incision with itself, that people will notice that the government will be saving, not doing the same as before, if it's none of our business, we're the government, we need everything we need. Even this budgetary logic, which the government is just continuing and accelerating, is not leading in the right direction. Everyone fights for as much budget share as possible and makes sure that the end of the year does not remain on individual items of money. If he stays, there'll be less money next year. From here logically requires an ever-increasing budget and ever-increasing funding. I would expect the government, which is considered successful, to make at least one minimum move in the opinion of state officials, and to reward those who would save on the budget and try to achieve better progress with the existing money fund or with reduced work. I have not found any such steps in this direction in this budget and also in the public appearances of the Prime Minister or Minister of Finance. The talk was that there would be more money for the development of other areas. This is a common, even today mentioned, regional or regional or I do not know what topic. The fact is that in the past years, capital has concentrated in Ljubljana and the fact is that other areas of Slovenia have deteriorated. Not only are we opposition Members finding this out, but we have been able to hear it from the ruling coalition today. It's nice to admit that a mistake was made here. I hope that you will also learn from this mistake and actually make sure that other areas of Slovenia develop more evenly. Those of us who are very much on the ground can see how in the past decade Ljubljana has developed, how money has been concentrated here, and how some areas of Slovenia are being emptied. This, of course, is not a good prospect for the future, and nothing will help us to say a good word about how we are going to do otherwise now if there are really no significant shifts in this area. And the formation of landscapes. While I have tried to find items, I believe that they cannot be written in the budget so decidedly, but I am sure that the Minister will be able to say this, too, whether there are any appropriate funds in the budget, which, at least as I say, are a financial incentive for the emergence of regions. The regions do not mean greater bureaucracy of the country, but they do mean a reduction in the power of the centre. Today, for example, a mayor compared to the government, in this direct relationship, is an insignificant member; he has no influence whatsoever. If we form Slovenia in a few regions, these regions will have at least 100,000 inhabitants, and some political power will be concentrated here, which will be able to vie with the Ljubljana centre, whoever will be in this centre. This will actually ensure conditions for a more equitable development of other areas. I miss this document - and I allow the possibility that of course this is where it is written, but I have overlooked - a clearer picture of how to do it, even in a financial sense, of course. Last but not least, you have so much power in the National Assembly that, if ever, then now, in this mandate of the region, the means can be provided and, of course, the conditions for a more equitable development of Slovenia. We could talk about this, but I know that, of course, government representatives are not interested. If all I have said, Minister Rob will somehow, how can I say, refuse or, in his usual style, entangle himself in words that are unclear, he would then allow himself to ask an additional question. If we, the opposition, are not right about this financial state of the country and the economic situation, then why increase taxes? Then why the increase in excise duty? Then why all these measures, which remind us of crisis management? Mr. Rob, representatives of the government, your success story has apparently become just a fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! It is too much to point out that, as a Member of the United List of Social Democrats, which is one of the members of the ruling coalition, I will support the complementary draft state budget for both 2002 and 2003. I am also pleased with the updated draft budget, which was upgraded by the proposal of the parent finance committee, to increase, at the initiative of the Committee on Culture, Education, Science, Sport and Youth, funds for so-called social activities, such as science, culture, education and sport, in particular in the field of investment, which, following the provision of some experts, is intended to constitute demand and incentives for an economy where the future is in the face of international circumstances, is assessed quite black-sighted. Investments in science and development have a 12-fold multiplier effect. Investments in the area of restoration of cultural heritage six times the increase in effects on other areas, such as tourism and so on, while the effects on infrastructure investments range from 3 to 6 times, which is also not a negligible fact. However, I would like to draw attention to the problem that I have spoken about in this town several times before with regard to the adoption of the 2002 and 2003 budgets. Here I am referring to the effects of Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which refers to the different shares that the State makes for municipal investment. The country's share ratio is very wide, as according to the income per capita, according to the national average, between 10% and 70%. That is why 24 Slovene municipalities have joined the request to initiate a procedure to assess the conformity of the law on the financing of municipalities with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia at the initiative of the municipalities of Idrija and Škofja Loka. Let me list some of these: Domžale, Grosuplje, Command, Logatec, Murska Sobota, Predvor, Trbovlje, Cankova, Laško, Bled, Ig, Piran,Maribor, Kranj, Lendava, Ljubljana and may also include. Incentives state that the provisions of Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities are contrary to Articles 14, 138, 142 and 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which regulate equality before the law, the exercise of local self-government, the income of municipalities and the harmonisation of legal acts. As a result, the financial capacity of local communities to carry out their urgent tasks laid down by law is being jeopardised, making it impossible for them to fully ensure the rights of the inhabitants to exercise local self-government. The municipalities that have signed the request for a constitutional court are now 26 and, of course, many others who have not yet signed it and are also suffering irreparable damage, as the funds for investment in pre-school care, primary education and basic health care and in some other areas must be provided almost exclusively from municipal budgets. Thus, to many municipalities, the state provides only 10 to 20% of the participation in the field of investment in the primary school premises of the municipalities in an extremely unequal situation in the country according to their location, of course it is too much to repeat. For the primary school is a constitutional category and is compulsory for all and also in the field of investment in primary school space, equal conditions should apply for all municipalities in the country, whether it is a capital or a small rural municipality. There are many similar cases, of course, in other areas, and I will not list them. Since the entire state budget structure for co-financing investments in municipalities over the next two years is based on the provisions of Article 26 of the Community Financing Act, the possible success of the initiative before the Constitutional Court - in which I have no doubt - will have a very negative impact on the implementation of this budget or will not be implemented in this segment at all. I therefore propose that we continue with the rebalancing of this part of the 2002 and 2003 state budget, which speaks of the country's share of investments in municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We accept key documents for the development of this country over the next two years. Of course, these key documents should have a decisive role for the National Assembly, a key impact and should also ensure respect for the government - respect for the priorities set by the National Assembly in the preparation of these budgetary documents. From the basic point of view that there is 90 per cent in the budget or the taxpayer's own resources and that the government has only the money of taxpayers and Members are elected by taxpayers and this would be the normal procedure for adopting the budget. However, this is not the case after this year's revision of the Rules of Procedure in the budget work. The role of the National Assembly is demeaning in the area of the budget and this demeaning role is best illustrated, and I will repeat this once again, and I apologize to my colleague Kebrich when he was extremely clear, open and free-minded when we were in Maribor at the Railways Directorate. When representatives of the Railways Directorate presented to us what their area contained in the government's draft budget, Mr Kebric said in response to their statements: "Sorry, you called us too late, yesterday the government has already sent the draft budget to Parliament, now there is nothing to be done." This is freeness of mind and thus has a government, with such a relationship, even to its Members. And I must say, on the basis of this, such a relationship, it is no wonder that we have such a budget ahead of us. So, a balance of income and expenditure. Look. This budget is, in a way, a mirror of government policy over the past nine years, given this testimony. The same government policy option and the same authority worked for nine years, has been in power for nine years and is normally expected to be positive with good teachers. Now that the government does not recognise Parliament, even as that teaching work, of course, the evidence is also negative. This is reflected in a large budget deficit, and even more; the government obviously thinks that with a negative assessment it is possible to move forward to the next class. It is true that in our school system there has been such a method and such a mentality for several years, but it has had disastrous consequences because there is a general level of discipline and teaching methods of teachers - and everything has deteriorated: and so it gets worse here too. The attitude towards public finances at all levels of the country is deteriorating, and in this way I do not think it is possible to build the future of this country. Government Members have mentioned here what is real, that it is a reflection of the budget of the actual situation. In fact, it's a mirror, a picture in a mirror of the actual state. If this is what government Members are saying about the poor state of public finances, public finances, then of course, there is no need for the rest of us to wonder whether that is true. When I looked at what was said in April of the month when we adopted the budget for this year, the leader of a parliamentary group of government parties said that this was, for 2001, a crisis budget. I wonder if in this state we will have eternally only crisis budgets. Look. If the government of state-owned property with the state, if the government were to manage its assets well, could plan and expect higher and more solid revenues from state property and thus foresee more employment, a better quality of life for its taxpayers in the future. Now, the picture is inverse: they increase seats because they can't close the balance sheets, so let's see that the government expects more income from car contributions, car charges. This is said, despite the overall increasing value added tax, which actually affects every taxpayer, the hexagonal blow to every taxpayer's wallet. Nevertheless, such trends in the budget do not see a way out: the country's indebtedness is increasing into a deep future, but we do not see transparent what it will get out of selling state property. How are the masters with this money? What are these capital inflows? We announced the month of April, when we adopted the previous budget, that it would be very difficult for the state to cope with some smart purchases under such a general policy. This has now proved to be true at the end of the year; everywhere, revenues or sales are lower than planned at the time. This is said to have not been effectively serviced by Parliament. And if we're looking at SRD or something, there's no interest in getting big purchases! For miserable prices, the only good companies within the development company are sold. Nobody cares about the purchase. No one cares if, on the basis of this purchase, it is possible to open a new job. And here is actually a very critical situation. I would like to commend in government policy, if these are greater investments, greater investment transfers to infrastructure, to the economy, which is expected to revive economic growth. They call it, with a new gravel, countercyclical economic policy. I'd like to commend you, at least, on a higher point. However: is this hidden, for example, in these investments of other countries - transfers, other states? If this goes through, I am sure that these other levels of the country, the municipalities, will come a little from this increased sum. In recent years, the country has set up agencies, funds, what, third - everything in Ljubljana. All these agencies, all these funds, they build marble palaces, and the money stays here. The government would make the best transfer, for example, for Styria, entirely justified if the holding company left energy and allowed it to be in Maribor. Then we can have low numbers here, and through that money that's made there or turned there, it'll stay there. In fact, it is so blind that some transfers will also come to the province and actually become more metropolis and province. A province in a classical sense. Such transfers, in fact, I fear, are only on paper, but there will be no actual, financial transfers. See, doubt is also justified on the basis that we hear that the government will set up a new ministry, says the Minister of Regional Development. We should commend and support this, especially since the European Union notes that the government does nothing in this area. And of course, the answer to the European Union report is the creation of a new ministry. But when we hear that the Minister for Regional Development, a professor from the Faculty of Economics in Maribor, who has dealt with Chinese students illegally in the past period, and I don't know what else, has wasted the state money to do this there catastrophic financial affairs. Then we ask ourselves if this is just a cover-up for such a policy. What does that mean on a symbolic level? Instead of actually drawing an established expert out of the province, who would have some interest in these other levels of countries working to contribute to better development [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Mr Jerovšek, I apologize, I think he trusts you in human resources, but this is not our thing, nor at least the general part of the budget. Please stick to this frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	I'm talking about the effects of the budget. And that's what I think is clear to everyone. And the worst, colleagues and colleagues, to give us such a picture of the state budget that you recognize for yourselves, which is critical, crisis-depressive, that for all of this the government is actually looking for excuses in the events of September 11th and thus a related recession in the world. This year is such, and there has been no impact on these events. And now bring all taxpayers thirsting over water, that all events in the world, negative economic movements, will have an impact. Only; in such situations, good authority shows whether it can bridge or grasp it as an excuse for all past mistakes. And it's obvious that this was taken as an apology. As a "flatter" to cover errors that still have a bearing on public finances, on the state budget, on the use of taxpayers' funds. Look, now the birds are chirping, let's say in banking, which is completely owned by the state, that there's a lot of things wrong. I read in these days, in an article to rule within banks and in the supervisory boards of banks set up by the government, financial incess. They set each other up, and in such circumstances it is not possible to exercise control over the operations of banks. And it is not done because it is the main tendency to take advantage of the time when it is possible to use state resources for private projects as well. And in such a state, even in the recruitment of those who are supposed to monitor how state money is dealt with in different institutions, at different levels of the country, it is indeed a legitimate fear that Slovenia will become a financial colony. And that with project colonizers he has important allies in the government - those who take over our banking, our economy. See, this failure to discuss the privatisation of banks, the non-admission of the law envisaged in a whole range of areas is by bypassing those who should make decisions. This is reflected in an increased deficit every year. The only positive thing this year is that at least this financial year has been interrupted by this drawing of the financial year over the new year. But of course, these events have been exploited in the world, the economic recession, so that is now the result of this. No, it's not! We have deliberately presented state finances in this country in a transparent way, so complicated that even MEPs cannot get to the point where there is something hidden, how money is done, and, of course, there will be no improvement in this state. This is already clear for the 2002 budget. However, I agree with the predecessors that we cannot really talk about the 2003 budget with such a state of public finances in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the introduction to his presentation, the Minister said that, in fact, this budget, which the government had agreed on on Sunday at Brdo pri Kranj, as has already been said today, is something that everyone, both coalition and opposition, should be satisfied with and that this is the maximum that the government can do in this country. Perhaps it is true that this majority coalition in this House will be extremely pleased with this. However, I am convinced that Slovenians and Slovenians, or, if I say otherwise, citizens and citizens of this country will by no means be able and cannot be satisfied with this way of working. For it is not difficult to rule in a country if you reach out to those classical instruments every time you run out of funds, it says, you raise taxes, this has already been said today, the government has regularly increased taxes on gasoline. I would like to remind you of a few months of the Bajuk government when the Bajuk government refused to raise excise duties and the price of gasoline fell. I remember then that media race, even by some eminent economists in this country, who immediately calculated that the government had given up 7 billion Slovenian tax collectors. But I'm not an economist myself. I understood, however, the tendency and decision of the then government that if it gave up so much money that it probably ended in some way in the economy and had its indirect effect. So, of course, the current Drnovsk government is taking advantage of these same economists, these experts, this instrument completely. Having run out of money in the health treasury, she recalled that she could increase her excise duties and obtain something from those who could be heard at risk in this Parliament. Then the Minister of the Environment freely invented new environmental taxes, new taxes, which will be applied with 1.1. The coalition contract also contains a property tax, then we can hear about the desire for a new car tax and, of course, the newly introduced 1% increase in value added tax. So this is one side, and on the other hand, the government is predicting that it will reduce employment and that it will perform more restrictively or limit wage increases. In fact, however, it is true that this government, in fact, has introduced and is still introducing new and new agencies, constantly new and new services, with every proposal for a law sent to this Parliament, under the cover of coordination or coordination with the European Union. There are also two laws in the procedure of the Committee on Agriculture: one is the Law on Feed; the other is the Law on Livestock; both are reinstituting new jobs; and at the same time we are listening to this government in this Parliament, how it will actually reduce employment. So, you can explain these things to citizens and citizens if they believe you, but we who are here in the opposition, of course we cannot believe this, because you are actually doing the opposite with the bills. Even with these, I would say, your proposals to raise taxes do the exact opposite of what the economy in America or Western Europe does; when it is in recession, then they lower taxes and thus accelerate economic growth. But we are witnessing the opposite process. Of course, this matter will remain as long as this government has something to sell until there is more to be done with the state’s assets. The congregations are now in charge of the new ones! So, in the past, we have not witnessed this, in addition to the fact that the country owed very much - the debt per capita today is three times greater than it was after the break-up of Yugoslavia - we are now witnessing that up to 10% of the municipal budgets can also be owed to the municipality, and the debt increases in this way. It is clear that all of this will have to be paid once and that the matter will be extremely bad for all of us in this country at that time. Otherwise, the government promises to reduce the basic interest rate or to abolish the basic interest rate, it says, will abolish TOM. On the other hand, it says it will introduce ROM; it is said, the introduction of some new terms, some new instruments with clear and already heard content. Nothing will change, mainly these citizens and citizens will have to be taken as long as this government expects to perform its function. When I myself monitored these matters when the government called on it to actually supplement this 2002 budget - not to mention 2003 - because the Minister had already said that these issues would need to be re-disputed in the spring - when he made the decision, we could hear that the budget needed to be changed due to the forecasted lower economic growth due to the recession that reigned throughout the global economy. But then, in fact, I was surprised to find that the government of the original draft budget had not reduced it, but even increased it for some 3 billion. So instead of 1220 billion, she proposed 1223 billion. Today it is said that this is due to an increased reserve of 3 billion due to drought. But, for God's sake, when the government was drawing up the budget, we had already had the law on the removal of the effects of drought and cold for this year, and so the government knew that these funds must be made available somewhere, according to the budget reserve, in the budget, at least in the law we adopted at that time. So, we one, rule the other. What bothers me most is that this government does not actually respect this or the previous parliament of the adopted national programmes, so there is no national programme for the construction of motorways and other fast roads. So, this programme is the end of the line, despite the fact that the government has slightly increased these means of building motorways and fast roads in the supplementary draft budget, this national programme is on a dead end. It should end in 2004, with the final parts of 2005 and we ourselves know that if we want to build all Slovenian motorways and fast roads by then, we should turn over about 80 km of motorways and fast roads by that time, and we will have them all in this year about 16, 17 km. When we discussed the annual programme for this year in July, the government made clear promises that it would come before this Parliament with a revised national programme. There have been promises that legislation will be put forward to this Parliament, which will mean the possibility of concessional construction; it is said that private capital, both domestic and foreign, will be engaged. At this point of all of this, of course - except for that promise which we did not believe at the time in the opposition - there is nothing left, and at this point we have none of it, but the government in this plan says, this year we will provide 32 billion for motorways, second year, 2003 and 37 billion, and then I do not know on what documents and on what national programmes, says that in 2004 62 and 2005 again the same, 62 billion - of course, billions. So I don't know if the government would like to put such a programme in its budget documents, then it is clear that we should eventually change this national road infrastructure programme and bring it through the procedure in this Parliament, amend it. I don't know why we don't get it, whether the government just doesn't want to admit its mistakes from the past or what the real reason is. The implementation of the railway infrastructure programme is even worse. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Mr Sok, I do not wish to be rude and to interrupt you needlessly, I think you have made yourself known in the general debate, even in a special part, and now you are talking about the road programme, about the railway programme, and these are the specific programmes that will be discussed in the specific part of the budget, where you have made yourself known to an unlimited discussion. I really don't want us to repeat ourselves and burden ourselves needlessly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Madam Vice President, I will respect your decision. However, I am speaking, of course, in this general work, about the fact that the State does not comply with the national programmes adopted in individual parts, and this is also covered in the general part of the state budget when we are talking about expenditure. No, I agree, you just interrupted me, I'm gonna finish this debate and then I'm gonna sign up again if that's what you want, in general. However, I say again - that is why I am separating the debate into a general and special part. However, since we have certain national programmes that I, as a Member, thought must be a basis for planning a government, I would like to point out that they are not, and that the government does not respect them and does not seem worthy to respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings for everyone, including the government! The budget we are discussing today is a farce. And accepting this budget is a second farce. Why? See, paragraph 220 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the new Rules of Procedure, stipulates that at least a quarter of the members of this Parliament must sign amendments, i.e. 23 Members. Where we are talking about amending the Constitution, 20 Members of this National Assembly shall be sufficient to submit an application for amending the Constitution. What does that mean? This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is more important to the budget than the constitution of its own country. If we move on, what does that mean? That it is prepared by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia to organise the budget as it is after the year, that this government will be ready to do everything in its power to make this happen. That's what he does, I'm afraid. If we turn to budget expenditure in general, we see that in 1995 there were about 500 billion tolars, for 2002 this number is 1350 billion. This is said to be 850 billion more than in 1995, and for 2003 the amount of expenditure is 1470 billion Slovenian tolars, representing 970 billion tolars more than in 1995. Of course, the government will say: citizens need to feel that we are ruling them and that we need money to rule them. How are we gonna patch up these deficits? By selling everything good in Slovenia. Banks, some of them already sold, will be sold by Luka Koper, who is said to have moved slowly into the Italian hands, by starting with an investment on the 7th marketing pier, by failing to make investments on the 3rd kopre pier and by going to Trieste, Slovenia, the container terminal will remain bulky cargoes that bring an ecologically controversial issue, plus very small profits and very small profits. On the roads we have already distributed to foreigners to take over work on one side and these foreigners are already throwing Slovenian subcontractors on the road. The example of Grassetta, who threw the mining RGD company on the road - and nothing to anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Mr Jelinčič, I apologize, the same warning as that given to Mr Jerovšek applies to you. Please stick to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am holding on to the budget and I wanted to attach this to the expenditure of the budget provided for roads in 2002 and 2003. Both times a few more than 30 billion Slovenian Tolars and I am sure that this money will go abroad, because this - it seems - is the intention of the Slovenian government - to transport abroad so that they can kneel at the feet of European masters. If we look further where they will be able to recharge the Slovenian budget. They'll sell the Union of Belgium's historic brand, sell the Fructal to Croats, etc. If we look at the rehabilitation of banks from taxpayers' pockets, we see that money went into the pockets of new capitalists - and no one did. Of course, the government will say that citizens should see that we also have rich people, and citizens, I hope that they will overlook and see what is happening. On the other hand, we find expenditure in the budget, such as Falcone's latest aircraft, so that some gentlemen can walk beautifully across the sky, while the Belgian company Sabena and Swiss Swiss Swiss are selling airbuses, significantly more capable aircraft, for more than half of this price. And nothing to the government. The government will tell people to see that we too can escape with gold and a plane to London, as some government did in 1941. If we look at where the government plans to get more money - at taxes where it's easiest. To hit the Slovenian in the pocket, and the government says anyway: because the Slovenian will endure; he has endured several thousand years from Quarantine to get his country, and will last a few years until this country collapses and drowns in the European Community. And they're going to increase or you're going to increase the value added tax by one point. What are the consequences? Personal consumption will decrease or people will be able to buy less at home because it will become more and more expensive. The standard of living will fall, but the government will say: it will fall to others, because it will not fall to us who are in the government. Savings will decrease - but the government will be concerned here, because if savings are cut, less money will flow into banks and some gentlemen who are already getting fat will get a little fatter. But the government is going to say, "That's all right, because immeasurable obesity is harmful." Investments will undoubtedly fall, and as they fall, fewer jobs will be created and more unemployed. Another interesting reason why the government will increase value added tax: from each tax, VAT, a certain percentage is deducted for the European Union, and higher than VAT, that percentage is higher, that percentage is higher. Is that what you're saying? Maybe it's some kind of tied-up shop, "we're us"? The government will say: because it doesn't matter because it doesn't go out of my pocket because it goes out of the pocket of Slovenes and Slovenes. And as the value added tax rises, prices will rise, basic livelihoods will be undermined, the purchasing power of the population will decrease, private consumption will decrease, population demand will decrease, economic growth will decrease, economic growth will decrease, and the government will say, "No harm if the Slovenians are less affected, because we have problems with them either way." Finally, the government will certainly contribute something to some pro-European orientation and will ensure that when it enters Europe one thing - namely, the government has issued a statement on the grave management plan, which states in point 6 that the Government or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will express its willingness to contact the authorities of other countries whose nationals have been victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means we'll probably be paying first by state money or with the money of all the Slovenes and Slovenes for monuments, what I know, the SS division of Prince Evgen, and perhaps also the renaming of some Ljubljana market to Adolf Hitler Platz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The delegation and the Members who applied in writing are no longer in place, so there is now a limited discussion of the debaters for 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Franci Rokavec, Mr Jaša, I apologize. You wanted to replicate Mr. Sok's implementation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Actually, I wanted to replicate my colleague Brejc and partly my colleague Sok. My friend Brejc said how modest the Bajuk government only once went to the Hill for lunch and this meal was paid for by Bajuk. I'd really like to see that bill Bajuk paid. That's one thing. The other thing is: colleague Brejc and colleague Sok, with the modesty of the Bajuk government, would ask what they think is a pretty good part of ministers who were either higher education teachers or pensioners after they were no longer in the government for a year, accepting a high government salary with performance allowances and so on. And how many members of the so-called young parties who were no longer elected as a member in the last reference, who, just as a year ago, were taking wages with performance allowances and for years, regardless of whether many of them were pensioners or had other resources to survive?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Yasha. But the answers to these questions that you have asked, I will not allow them. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear Members and Members! Like several fellow Members today, I must express myself a certain scepticism of the government in planning the level of economic growth in the coming year. But I think it's the right direction for the government to decide to accelerate investment in infrastructure. Nevertheless, I would in fact point out that during a period of less economic growth or less of the capacity of the State, it is necessary to tighten the belt first. If citizens are burdened with an increase in value added tax, an increase in health insurance contributions, then they would actually need one comprehensive analysis of the efficiency and rationality of the public sector as a whole. That's what I've already warned you about in the law of administration. Indeed, the fact is that the government is also talking on page 15 about reducing employment in public administration in its supplementary draft budget. Nevertheless, I say that this assessment is too small or too modest or that predictions - if we only look at the defence area, we have witnessed this week that, by means of a change, a change in the law of defence should give up to 1,500 early retirements. I think that these assessments are actually exaggerated, and in fact I expect that there will be a greater tightening of the belt in the implementation of the budget, in particular that the government will finally prepare a comprehensive analysis of the efficiency of its public sector or of the whole administration. In addition, I would like to touch on another issue, which is the issue of a sales strategy for state property. I have already pointed out this in the debate on this spring's budget. It is not just a matter of selling state property or, above all, servicing the deficit in the budget, which is, as a result - by selling state property - even then filling the work of this deficit. I think that we have recently seen the second question that we do not have a strategy in this area, especially how the two state funds representing the country in important companies will act in those key decisions. Whether they will act in such a way that the vital elements of our economy and the Slovenian economy will become an attachment to the future of foreign multinationals, or they will act in such a way as to make these vital elements - real banking, insurance, telecommunications, commerce, brewery, etc. - they can become a key co-formor of economic development in this wider region and be competitive in the European market, and above all to take over the market of South-East Europe. I think the answer to this question is and the strategy needs to be prepared as soon as possible. In my opinion, a positive answer to this question could also be one of the essential grounds for this country, in the future, to be able, in fact, to create its own development ambitiously and in fact to take a more ambitious approach than at this point in time, to draw up its own budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor, then Dr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At first, I meant not to call back. Even when we adopted the 2001 budget, I said: let's accept this document as soon as possible, to start breathing as we expect, and to relax the time-frames so that the 2002 budget can be prepared as it would be in terms of the state of public finances, in view of the goals that this country and this government would have and should have a very clear title on what we should do until we enter the European Union, or including the year in which we enter - I expected much more than we have received. And with that, I'd like to say the following. When I stop at the structural cut of the 2002 budget and compare the structural cuts in 1998, 1999, I come back in my mind and look a little bit in the principle of some of us Members. Then, I remember, some came up with one bad thesis: the budget is bad, it's not developmental at all. This thesis was developed long, until disability. Today, these Members are performing in superlatives here. Budget structure - expenditure, if I only take expenditure for 2002 and if I take wages and contributions, and if I take the transfer of investment expenditure to SPIZ, then the structure of this budget is significantly worse than in 1998, 1999, 1997. And it's like 2000, too. So, I can say it myself, as I see it, as I feel it. All due respect, Minister, he had a good approach for me, optimistic, given the assessment of the situation. He's gone too fast. Why did he hang, I don't even know. The government has been speeding up too quickly for its purpose. I don't know why. You didn't have to. Thus this budget is not as good as it was presented to the public in the ritual as a success - our minister, Mr Rob has this natural gift and it is very successful. I'd like him to be able to do or do what he knows he has to do. The budget does not have enough built-in mechanisms to lead both the country and the population to savings. Without saving there is no stable currency, no saving there is no investment money. And if there is no investment money, there is no additional generator for economic growth and employment. I also miss - mechanisms, as I might say - a change in the structure of expenditure in favour of investment. How can you do so in view of all the marriage obligations that affect the cut? Without going with some measures to tackle public spending, which will also reduce certain uncritically acquired rights in the near past, but which do not hold back in view of our baseline prospects for entry into the European Union, this cannot be done. I mean, Mr Minister, and also the government, which I am part of, that the 2003 budget will, of course, be adopted today - I will also support it. However, I think that because of the situation you are well aware of, it will be subject to a lot of changes: either now or in 2004; changes that will be far more radical than they have now been taken into account. I wouldn't say much more. I expected what I said - more mechanisms that will lead to saving, although some say we have to spend, we are now in the government. Yes, but every consumption ends with an empty pocket and then there is nothing left to give children to eat, the master said when the farm rushed someone was trying to keep it. I would therefore like to see all the best on the journey of both budgets and rivets, to make changes in the 2003 budget early enough to make a positive contribution to the fact that we will be well prepared and structurally prepared in 2004 to cut the budget for entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the government, colleague and colleague. I'll be very brief. Much has been said about what is missing in the budget, what is wrong with it, etc. Of course, it is understandable to look at this complicated budget, that there are many questions and few answers. But you still learn from this process, believe it or not, even at my age. So I'm going to give one example of who might explain some things. Last week an amendment was adopted on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which translated about half a billion tolars, if I recall correctly, into a culture for various activities and, on the other hand, this money was taken by the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, you will correct me if my numbers are not quite correct. But it's not so much about numbers, it's about principle. Today, when we started at 3:30 in the morning with the continuation of this meeting, there was a lot of excitement because the Minister of Finance did not like this money to be collected only from his ministry. Personally, I thought if someone had a canvas and scissors, he'd know where to cut it. Well, then, after some process of "hokus-pocus" came to a solution this morning and I tell you that this money, although the Ministry of Finance - and this is very nice that they haven't completely cancelled - has resigned 195 million tolars, the remaining share has been divided into 8 users, among them joint government services, government information centre, Slovenian intelligence and security agency, the Ministry of Finance I already mentioned, the Ministry of Justice, the Roads Directorate, the Geodetic Administration, the Ministry of Information Society and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. So, every ministry, well, not all the ministries, but some have resigned some part of their budget. Here is the question: if it could be done for half a billion tolars, which are also, if I may say so banally,'speech' which is still in the budget. Would it not be possible to shake this bag again and see if this budget could be reduced. Let me also say here that this budget is quite imprecise and also some of the documents that have been sent - as the draft law on budget implementation came in the first draft quite flawed and only now have we got this opportunity to get a more complementary version, and this one is full, I would say, of the undefined concepts that someone who is not an expert in this profession needs. Well, now that I have a word, I'm gonna say one more thing, because the graves were mentioned earlier. There's an amendment in our party that's worth supporting, and I'll talk about it another time. Today I will just say that this has been mentioned here and how much it takes, what the costs will be with it and so on. It seems to me that the same speaker who said this would increase these tombs if one believed his statements, when I was running for president of the country four million years ago, it was said that all those voters who voted for me, and these were 100,000, should have been abolished in 1945. It is said, thank God that some of us are still here and that we are not in the graves, because this would increase the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have heard Members and Members of Parliament. The Minister has called, so, Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me, you'd listen to Mr. Sušnik first, and then I invite you to your word. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and distinguished Ministers! I would like to touch on regional development and the relationship of the budget to this issue. In particular, this matter has been highlighted in the stage of its consideration of the budget for 2002 and 2003. I think it was useful to start thinking about regional development, regardless of the fact that Slovenia has adopted a strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, a strategy for regional development, that a law on coherent regional development was adopted in 1999, and that we have finally adopted a preliminary national development programme. Unfortunately, all we can see today is that there is no funding in the 2002 and 2003 budget for the implementation of the coherent regional development law. I know what I'm going to get an answer for, because I can read it in part in the Saturday Annex of Work to aim for this purpose at 4.5% of the gross social product, but I will try to explain what the views of the region on this are. It is impossible to agree to the thesis that anything that goes outside - I will say - the Ljubljana Circle is defined as a means for regional development. In accordance with Article 19 of the Harmonised Regional Development Act, it is clear that the State is obliged to devote 0.5% of the gross social product to regional incentives, which must be clearly defined in the budgetary memorandum and 1% each year. This does not have to be particularly explained that at the level of the country, there must be about 45 to 50 billion additional resources. We cannot now see everything that has already been meant for regional development as a regional incentive until the adoption of the law. However, this law was brought about because it was found that there was a need for development in areas that were significantly lagging behind. Article 19 or this law states that regional incentives are justified by those areas which are lagging behind the national average of gross social product by 20% or more or which are abnormally lagging behind unemployment rates. It is evident on this basis that this money does not exist for the implementation of the coherent regional development law in the 2002 and 2003 budget. It's not enough. If I get a quality and quality answer, I'll be very pleased, but I'm still saying he's not. I'll try to explain it - why. See, in the 12 statistical regions identified, one intensive activity is now under way, and regional development programmes are being adopted. These regions are eligible for different levels of development incentives in view of the different gross social product they achieve. I will now refer to the case of one of these 12 regions, this is the Savina statistical region, which is significantly lagging behind, both after gross social product and at unemployment rate, and is fully entitled to 1% of the gross social product. Given that the Savini statistical region contributes to the gross social product of 14%, we have calculated that this is 4.5 to 5 billion over the next six years. This money is not -- I'll say -- a right or some charity that we would ask for, but I think that money is a logical consequence of the adopted law and belongs to the region. With this assumption, we have also joined the adoption of a regional development programme. To this end, a huge amount of resources, a huge amount of human power, have been fucked for a long time, resulting in the confirmation of this regional development programme by all 32 municipalities. However, I fear that this regional development programme is inconclusive. However, it is not feasible because in the budget for the first two years of implementation, 2002 and 2003, the State did not devote that necessary percentage of gross social product to the implementation of the regional development programme. If I'm sure of the opposite, I'll be very happy, I've already said. However, the accident is even greater, and I will say that we have already been reduced by 0.5% of the gross social product of development incentives in 2000 and again by 1%, that is to say 4 to 4.5 billion, in 2001. Why am I saying this? I am simply speaking because it is a large area of the 32 municipalities, I say that this applies even to Slovenia, which extends from the Croatian border to Austria, which also includes two large industrial centres covering so many and so many people, here 32 municipalities, which have pooled their funds, pooled money, joined forces, adopted a regional development programme. The logical consequence would also be to make it necessary to create the necessary infrastructure for the implementation of the development programme, and the logical consequence would be that, not because we are asking, but because, already in September 1999, this regional development programme, as well as the other 11, was adopted by law, would be adequately supported only in accordance with the legislation adopted. I am afraid that all the work invested, all the money invested, will now be pissed off, all the time spent on adopting this regional development programme, in spite of the fact that the work will go to waste because the budget for the first two years of this period covered by the regional development programme does not have the necessary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. There was, of course, a lot of discussion, a lot of comments and a lot of criticism, and perhaps it is right for me to respond to some of the criticisms - even though I am at risk of much discussion then. But I think it's good that we discuss some of the things that have been pointed out. First of all, Mr Visiak, who is farthest away, as far as the discussion is concerned. It is true that I have already told him something on the committee back, I think, that I have tried to argue why some of his thesis is not true, and of all, it may be the most obvious one about the realisation of this year and his claim that the government has reduced investments by 6.4 billion this year. Of course, the government has not done so and has no intention of doing so. The fact is that we have estimated that the realisation of investments will be much lower. And now, of course, we are in the process of what is the reason why investments are going to be lower. The reason is, and we have already said this, very clearly: the budget was adopted very late last year, the budget was not prepared, it was not adopted, so we had temporary funding in which investments were practically stopped; the budget was adopted, we all know, April, and, of course, the budget users started preparing projects. It is obvious that they have not been able to fully prepare all the projects, even because the budget has not been adopted and someone has not prepared it and someone has not accepted it, and therefore, of course, we have a lower level of investment than it could have been this year. And because we have a lower level of investment than it could be this year, it is estimated that the realisation of public sector investments will be more than 10% lower, resulting in the overall investment being lower and therefore the planned economic growth in Slovenia is lower than we estimated. In fact, this speaks of how important it is that the budget is regularly adopted, how important it is that the country operates normally on this segment as well. And, of course, if the state does not function normally, this will ultimately also affect the economy and ultimately economic growth. This time, I will avoid appointing anyone in relation to why and how the budget was not adopted, so that I would not be informed that I always repeat the same thing. As regards Mr Brejc's question about the provinces, I have once again checked with the Minister of the Interior regarding the funds for the provinces, because I know that this was a discussion when we discussed the budget, and he assures me that certain funds are provided within the means to prepare the projects of the provinces, in short, for research, expertise and the preparation of individual projects. For this, certain funds are in place and the project is running, as you know, through the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, the very important point that you have all reached is the point that is linked to taxes, completely logical and also completely understandable. However, I think all these attacks on this area require some but clearer clarifications on the tax burdens in Slovenia and on the tax burdens in comparable countries. First of all, there was a comment on the excise duty. We know that Slovenia has an average excise duty in relation to the European Union and in relation to all the countries in the neighbourhood. However, it has an average level of social state and rights. Therefore, it is impossible to keep all taxes on average on the European Union, on average on all our neighbouring countries, but to ask the government, for example, from New Slovenia, to implement all national programmes to carry out what you require of us, but also to demand that all taxes be reduced. Of course you can't do that. We cannot have under-average tax burden and over-average expenditure. However, despite the fact that this year the government has actually led a policy of increasing excise duties, it has not increased them enough to raise excise duties to the exorbitance of any country in the neighbourhood or the European Union. Specific information: for tax burdens on petroleum derivatives, namely gasoline 95, is 73% of the European Union - I can also tell you the comparison, Austria has more, Croatia has more, and so on - diesel is 77%. You also know well that in the last two price cuts we have not raised excise duties, we have not, of course, raised them consciously and also to influence the lower level of inflation. We also said that when there was a public debate on what with excise duty, of course the government must pursue more goals: economic development, employment, enforcement - if you want - including the budget and the inflation objective. We are trying to strike a balance between these objectives and follow a consistent policy. As far as value added tax is concerned, you probably know that when the value added tax was adopted, it was planned first to increase the value added tax rate by 20 percent and 21 percent respectively. At that time, the National Assembly decided to adopt a 19 % rate and decided to raise it by one or two percentage points in the coming years. It was planned to rise to two percentage points all the time. The government has decided to raise the ceiling by one percentage point and the lower by 0.5% points. I made it clear earlier that raising the lower by 0.5 percentage points at a 20-percent raise, because for example, housing and medicines is included in the entry tax of 20 per cent does not mean higher costs for producers because they receive the refunded tax of 20 per cent. In fact, 0.5 still ensures that they are not net recipients of refunds. If, of course, we compare value added tax, again, with countries in the European Union and in the neighbourhood, then it should be noted that in Austria this tax is 20, in Italy 20, in Hungary 25 and in Croatia 22. I can read some other countries to which someone might want to compare themselves: Belgium 21, Denmark 25, France 20, Italy already said, Sweden 25. Thus, in this case, we do not in any case reduce the tax competitiveness of the Slovenian state, and this, of course, seems to me to say crucially. Not to mention that when this law is amended we do not raise direct taxes, these are, of course, those taxes that directly burden the economy. On the contrary! The corporate income tax is one of the lowest in Europe. The nominal rate is 25 per cent; it is only 9 per cent effective due to a number of tax incentives, in particular designed to promote investment. So this tax is under-average, too, and we don't raise it. Today there has been a lot of talk about how individual Members want to report to the government that it has contributed to health insurance and will burden the population. On the contrary! In particular, we opposed, even at the Ministry of Finance, discussions to raise this contribution rate to the workers; that is, employees, workers will not be burdened with this higher rate of contribution, although some believe that they should be in the discussion and that only employers are burdened. Why? Because we wanted to make this measure financially neutral for the economy and at the same time - and you just took it yesterday - you reduced the tax on the payroll. The net financial impact of this is positive for the economy. The net financial impact is around 800 million for the entire economy. In short, neutral. As far as taxes are concerned, at no point, exactly at any point, we are not reducing tax competitiveness. It is possible to discuss whether it would be more appropriate to raise value added tax in 2002 or 2003. I said that even on the proposal of many Slovenian economic experts, it is significantly more appropriate to raise this tax in 2002. It is simply because 2003 - and I believe this, of course, that we all believe together - a year before joining the European Union, when the inflation objective must be the first objective of this country, if we do not want to face major economic problems when entering the European Union. The next claim is that this is a crisis budget. This is not a crisis budget. We never said that it was a crisis budget. We have corrected this budget due to improved economic growth. But economic growth 3.6 is, of course, still high and I agree, relatively optimistic and, of course, it is important to be careful and therefore, of course, I am inspecting all those warnings from Members of the Union, all of whom speak of the importance of being cautious both in spending and in all other forecasts. I say that we had a small share of public expenditure investments this year. This year we have more than 20% investment growth. And you say that this is a crisis budget, that we claim to be a crisis budget. No! No! We say that this is the budget that is developmental in this part. I am not saying that the whole budget is developmental, that all expenditure is developmental. I agree with many of you that many of the expenditure in the budget is irrational, that many of the laws that have been passed over the years are too generous at many points, that too much is too little - too much to look at how they would be liked and understood by the individual population groups, and there were no alternative spending. After all - I am sorry that Mr Bernik went out - this has also proved to be true in the field of culture. As we were preparing the budget today, it became clear that as long as we are talking only about culture, we are all in favour of increasing the funds for culture. Immediately and without objection. However, when the discussion developed on which expenditure should therefore be reduced in other areas, the discussion was, of course, becoming significantly more difficult. Much harder, however, we hope that in the end - we have found some compromise solution that allows, in my opinion, a significant increase in cultural resources - which of course is right - and a reduction in certain expenditure, which will, of course, mean the need to save in other areas. And I believe that this solution that we have found is good and acceptable to all Members of the National Assembly. I didn't quite understand the gentleman who said the government would introduce ROM instead of TOM. This, of course, cannot be introduced by the government; ROM is a reference rate that is formed on a market based on an interbank interest rate; it is known everywhere in the world, and this is nothing more than a switch to a normal rate of interest, as the whole world knows, and eventually we will all go to EURIBOR together as the whole of Europe. This is the interest rate calculated on the basis of the interbank interest rate and based on the 100 largest banks in Europe. As regards some other claims, in particular those relating to savings, I agree that saving is necessary and will always support any proposal for saving that will not be a general that will not be in this sense must be saved; but that which will say: at this point, this and this must be taken away, and when we face this reality. In fact, I have been faced with this all along, with the whole adoption of both budgets, I have always faced different budgetary users, which I could or had to put on real ground and try to capture optimism. To capture, on the one hand, the right measure of savings and rationalisation, and on the other hand not to start doing harm in specific areas. Saving in itself is not always good and saving in times of crisis, such as investment, is extremely harmful, works pro-cyclically and accelerates the overall crisis. So, I agree that it is generally necessary to increase savings, but where, of course, it makes sense. And perhaps, because it is not so insignificant, the debate on regional development. I must say that on the Committee on Finance, we have distributed this brochure or this product, which is an analysis by the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, where these expenditure is collected from the budget. And there, of course, you can see this amount of resources as it is. This amount of funding was prepared by the Agency and according to these estimates an assessment of the overall indirect regional incentives and indirect regional incentives at level 96.5 billion is planned for 2002 in the budget and then remained, an assessment of all regional incentives by ministries, others, and together all the funds are actually assessed at the level you discussed. So I can give you what the agency has prepared, and you will, of course, take a look. However, with these incentives, it is always a question of whether regional incentives are really just those, for example, called regional incentives, which is for the Ministry of the Economy, whether this is, for example, part of a structural policy in the area of agriculture that goes directly to farmers in the regions, or whether these are, for example, state roads - investments in state roads have increased by 2.2 billion. And it will be difficult to understand that these are not funds for regional development as well. It is very interesting - last time I had a meeting with the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, communities of Slovenian municipalities, and I asked them myself, I said, do they think that the financial settlement, which is more than 30 billion, does not represent the means of regional incentives for development. Of course, they all agreed that much of this was also true. So I think that we can have a special discussion about what regional incentives are, what they are inside, but all these analyses show that the volume of funds that go beyond doubt for regional development is relatively large. We have tried to make these funds as many as possible, and we believe that we have relatively many defined them in the budget. This shows these analyses, which were also available to Members of Parliament. However, I agree with you that it would be good for these funds to be even more substantial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. First, the Magus came to the fore. A trifle, then Mr Jerovšek and Mr Petan. Here you go, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate to the Minister of Finance, Mr Mag. Robbery. Mr. Robb! At first, you got rid of a very interesting statement that, of course, the timetable or timing of the adoption of the budget has an impact on economic growth. It's an interesting idea that borders on a hunting claim. But I think you were joking. I think you were joking, because if this were true this year, when we adopted so early, economic growth should be at least twice as big in the coming year as you plan to. You know, as regards this year's implementation budget, there will be some savings - if you're going to do it the way you do it on an active employment policy for rehabilitation programmes, then it's not saving, it's breaking the law. Infringement of the law, rights to engage in professional rehabilitation, which has been frozen since August. If that's it, then this thing doesn't apply anymore. We know that we have instruments for the implementation of the budget, even though it has not been adopted. We have temporary funding. It does not happen that the budget is without money. About the forward load. It is precisely the government coalition that adopts laws that will enter into force in two, three or four years. Not long ago, we passed a law on change, parental protection, and family relations. That's what I've been critical of. The law seems to be unvoluntary, to different categories of children, families - I don't know what else - but in fact there is nothing at this point. Something's going to happen in a few years. I'm really afraid of what's gonna happen to all the actions you're doing right now. Although this budget is a natural act or a natural course of action that has taken place in the last four or five years. It's a natural process. It's a crisis budget. The principle is, of course, that the Minister of Liberal Democracy leaves the government. Leave a deficit that the government then appoints and brings to Parliament as a compensatory deficit. I must say, I don't understand this concept in this termine international apparatus. But, of course, it's all one deficit. So these are the facts that people need to know. For this reason, I can say once again that it is not credible and to a large extent it is a waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. In fact, I regret that television does not tolerate this performance by the Minister, nor by the Members. Indeed, the universal people should hear what the government has made available for regional development and how much resources. Because people are supposed to hear that the mayors are supposed to hear and know how to make this money from the government. Indeed, the fact is that Minister Rop is a master of presentation and also of these contacts in public, so I must commend the government in this area. He can communicate with the public in a fantastic way and show every single thing as best he can at a given time. The practice in the field is different, of course. Mr. Minister performed literally so that the mayors of the province should kneel to their feet and say, "Ave Caesar, we are dying to greet - with that classic greeting." In fact, all the mayors, we all know this money is gone. And here we hear stories about how all this increases. and in fact I cannot agree with the fact that the government is so pro-regionalally oriented. You should know that, but you don't know it. I say again. Take half of this money back, because anyway, after these agencies and funds, it will circle between you and return the energy holding company and those taxes that will be poured there or charged to have - say - the Styrian region; to do so. And I'd like to hear exactly what the minister did to keep the holding company when it came to that, in Maribor. He did not hear the call of 52 Members, obviously not, and many others, but we could have lower numbers here and we in Styrian would have what is ours under the law of nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Mr. Petan also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary. I think in five minutes you've caught yourself in conflict. I don't think you were joking with what you said. I think everything you've said is serious; and I take it seriously. That's exactly why I think it's like that - and I'll remind you. You said that the government never intended to reduce investment, but it is, you said that investments would be smaller, because the budget was too late and the former government was to blame. That's what was said. It is said that if the previous government blamed the fact that it would be 6 billion less investment, it is said that there will be savings of some kind for 6 billion, otherwise I can't explain it to myself - if it isn't used for investments; because budget users could not prepare projects, it just happened. But then I ask you why a hole in the budget was created, that you had to raise your contributions, that you had to raise your excise duties, that you had to increase your VAT, and that if the previous government blamed it, 6 billion would not be spent on investments. I think it's a big contradiction that I wouldn't remind you of anyone else. But that, I think, is more than enough to understand a colleague who's been talking before me and thinks that some things have been taken more seriously. But I don't take it that way, so I think it's a big contradiction because it's not a small asset. Because if you're saying the government was guilty of something that wasn't going to be done, then it's saved up. We note, however, that now - I don't know, in a bad year - there is such a hole that all possible contributions, excise duties and taxes must be increased. I'm just not getting along, and I just can't understand that your previous government has been so fond of you that it saved you money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. There are two more replicas, Mr. Minister, and then you, Mr. Sok and Dr. Brace. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. So, Minister, I never said that the government must implement all the programmes adopted. We know one of the members of the government, who has even stated that there is no need to respect the laws, let alone the programmes adopted. In any event, I would expect that, in line with the government's promise to fix those vital national vital programmes in this direction, they will be credible. It is said that it will come before this national assembly and will re-verify these programmes, such as the national highway construction programme. For as they are, they are no longer enforceable. And I don't know what assumptions the government is planning on by 2005, if the program is completely in a dead end. That's the first one. And this was also the government's promise, as was the government's promise, that the amendment of the Gas Tolar Act, which was adopted by 2007, which is meant to change this matter in Parliament today, we know. These are the government's promises, and I have warned you about this in my debate on the general part of the budget, but, of course, the New Slovenia gentleman does not expect the government to comply with all the proposals. It is clear to me that we can always cover ourselves with a blanket the size of which allows it. And I also understand the government on this segment, so that's for sure. As far as TOM is concerned, I mentioned this because the report that I read and was attached to this budget says that the government will help the economy by removing the TOM and, on the other hand, immediately writes that it will introduce a new way of taxation, which will be called ROM, because it writes there that it will be a reference rate, but I am sure that this ROM will probably consist of TOM plus a real interest rate. For as long as inflation in this country is as it is - and of course I do not blame inflation only by the government, but it is a real fact that inflation is such, but it is, of course, part of the government that hides it - until then, I do not imagine that it would be different. So that's what I'm thinking. I didn't think of anything else in this ROM than just bringing it together. And, in my opinion, this change in the economy will not help much. But if it's true, I'll be very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm just giving my word to the Minister of Finance. Excuse me, Dr. Brace, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. All that, Mr. Minister, you would say, I think that public finances in Slovenia are healthy, that the economy is in good shape and so on. And as a citizen of Slovenia, I would be delighted, believe that other citizens and citizens of Slovenia as well, that you would be right and that we would be wrong in the opposition. It would be good for all of us if we were wrong, not you. However, after we have been able to understand from government materials the state of debt, the state of government debt, the state of the treasury, and the fact that we have added a deficit in the pension register, we have a billionth hole in the health treasury, which, together, is one way to say, to the health of public finances in the country. And, of course, then, not to mention again everything that has already been said today: restrictions on employment and wage regulation in the public sector. Yeah, of course you're making another impression. And I think it would be wrong for the public to be misled in this place, but it would be right to link up all of these financial deficits, which we are all talking about very often and with great concern, and of course also these measures. And not to swing with your left hand, if, because this is a normal state, every country has problems and so on - although you literally did not say this sentence, of course, but I am talking about the state of the country and the financials. In order to make it clear that we are expecting major problems here, this is why we need to do so. And then people would know what we're dealing with. In fact, there are two pictures: one is more black, pictured by the opposition, and the other is all in the flowers that the government paints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. And now it is the word of the Minister. Mag. Robbery, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Yes, thank you very much. I hope I won't encourage so many replicas again, but I think some things need to be answered, no matter how controversial they may be. I think it is necessary to stress again and again that the state of public finances in Slovenia is relatively good, but that there are major problems that we are warning ourselves on several occasions. One of these problems was certainly the end of the year and with this delay we came transparently to the entire Slovenian public and we intend to eliminate it this year. After all, that is also why we have only 11 months of resources in 2002 and this means, of course, significant problems and problems. No doubt! And we never said that there were no problems in the health or in the pension box. I think you all remember how difficult it has been for the pension reform to drive through the National Assembly, as well as through the public and through the entire procedure. We have also heard from some lips, from your kind, that we have often sharpened things too much in pension reform. In the first period, some of us are too small to have done anything together, in the second, that we have done too much. In this way, we clearly note these problems, after all, we also raise the rate of contribution by 0.2% in employers - I warn you, in employers - and therefore lowering the tax on the payment sheet means starting and trying to save. Our position, the position of the Ministry of Finance, here was that we had to face all the financial constraints, that it would be very bad if we raised the contributions more than we did and that we had to force them from the pension, from the health treasury in the part where it does not go significantly to the detriment of the end of the insured, but into certain savings. And there is no doubt in this part. Even if you look at the annex to the draft budget, a specific chapter is dedicated to reducing the deficit, reducing the current deficit in the coming years and also reducing the overall public debt, and in particular reducing the costs of public debt servicing. The privatisation of banks is also part of this process. However, if you look at the discussion recently - from all kinds, from all circles, from positions and opposition - many in Slovenia are very skeptical. Is it worth it to go on with the privatisation? Or would it not be too much of a cost on the second segment? Although we are all aware together - and I have repeatedly stressed the cost of servicing the debt of recovery obligations per year. That's why we paid 19 billion this year. Only for those bonds. And even in the next few years, we will pay them if, of course, we pay this debt and we will not withdraw these bonds. And we still have a growing public debt from this title, from bank rehabilitation. A very big problem and a very serious problem that we are going to discuss very much and some of you have given special attention to today. But of course this has a huge impact on public debt and on the cost of all servicing, so it's far from me trying to show a picture better than it is, but relatively realistic. The reality is that, for the time being, Slovenia is in a relatively much more favourable situation than many other countries. Also more favourable than Germany, which will have a 2.5% deficit this year. Not to speak of Poland, because I do not want to compare myself with it, or of any other country where practically public finances have fallen apart in such an economic situation as is currently in the international economic environment. This is how I take a warning as well as a good idea, and I think it is good to draw attention to the problems as well, especially when we have a discussion of perhaps amendments, and someone will want to reduce some of those items, which we have witnessed today on the Committee on Finance, by the way. As far as this observation is concerned, there is a lack of understanding of temporary funding and a lower level of funding. Mr Drobnič, since this - together we have been at the Ministry of Labour, together we have also given perhaps some budget and you know very well that during the period of temporary financing the level of expenditure is obviously significantly lower. In particular, it is significantly lower if, for example, you have another 22 billion unpaid accounts from the previous year, which in the end turned out to have actually been contracts, "fetated" was so much, 17.5 billion. Then the situation is even more difficult because in the first half of the year you pay debts and liabilities back, you service current functions of the state and, of course, you do not accidentally start investment projects by ministries or budget users. Only the adoption of the budget, it is only in May, has the investment cycle started: project preparation, tender documentation, call for operators, then investments, etc. It is quite clear that this has had an impact on expenditure dynamics and, consequently, on the level of public sector investment. These are statistics. I didn't make up this data. The fact is that these investments, and these investments, not investments in the private sector, are falling this year, and this is one of the reasons - whether you want to or not. We can follow the lines and you will see, by the ministries, and the ministers will explain to you why certain projects could not be completed. Thus, this 22 billion has certainly had an impact on the level of expenditure for the entire year and on the problems of all expenditure. As regards this part of investment or regional development and those figures shown in this publication. I would just like to draw attention to a document that has now been accepted in government and is talking about investment transfers. Only about investment transfers that go to local level. If you just look at this item, then you'll see that this 16.4 billion is planned for next year, that's the extent of co-financing for the municipalities. This amount of co-financing varies - here you are mayors, many more know, than I do - 10 to 60 percent, the average may be 30 percent or 40 percent, and if you calculate how much at the end of the investment at the local level, you are approaching 40, maybe 50 billion, depending on what projects are going on in individual municipalities. In short, there are so many assets on this segment alone. But I never said, and I never said that there is too much or enough funding for regional development. That's not what I'm saying. I just said that we have made an effort in this direction to show those expenditure that is and can be considered by the Agency for Regional Development as expenditure that goes also for these purposes. But we didn't include - even by chance - current transfers or something like maybe someone would like to show. Of course not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. You were the one who wanted an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Yes, I would like to ask the Minister a question. When were the budgets adopted for the year, such as 1998, 1999 or 2000? You will see how the months were, even though there were no elections at the time, and what kind of funding. Look. The problem has now arisen by stalling public payments from the budget treasury. For a time, private operators who received a job from the State were in debt - also abroad - to bridge this non-payment by the public sector. But now it did, and that's what I said at the presentation. This anarchy, initiated by the government with late payments - 30, 45, 60, these are minimum deadlines - not maximum deadlines, the payment scheme of these private operators has failed. And this is the most devastating, not the non-acceptance of the budget, either in January and in March, because of public sector investments; even if we know how the calls are running and it does not start in January. I can say that again, because we worked together, but we worked two or three years ago, so we have information. However, I would not apologize or detain the other Members in this regard. I think a lot of clear things have been said, so I'm going to finish these replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I think that we can also conclude the general debate on the general part of the supplementary budget and move on to decision-making, as explained at the outset. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 34 to 13. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. In writing, Mr. Franz Pukšič, then Ivan Mamič, Aloise Sok and Leopold Grošelj applied for the debate in this part. I give my word to Mr. Franz Puksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In this part of the debate on the 2002 and 2003 budget, I will focus on three segments. One of the segments is regionalism, local self-government, municipalities; the other is the problem of maintaining the water system, because I think it is one of the most important, pressing problems in the Republic of Slovenia, which - unfortunately - is not talked about, except of course when catastrophic floods, droughts and so on. And the third segment is the provision of funds for what we have stated in some resolutions is that the priority foreign policy definition and priority in foreign policy is the care of Slovenia both in place and in the world. And if I start with the water system maintenance issue, I'd say so. By 1990, funds of 0.56% of gross domestic product were provided for the minimum basic water management activity, which implemented legal provisions, the State's obligations to water and, in particular, the maintenance of natural troughs and the construction of water-based infrastructure. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] If there are any better conditions for work, I will continue to do so if the chairman notices. Over a period of more than ten years of drastic reduction in funds for this activity, of course, to 0.1% of gross domestic product, is mainly reflected in the reduction in the maintenance of the existing drainage network under any reasonable measure. In this way, there is a complete absence of any development in this area. Almost a six-fold reduction in this area is already catastrophic, or the side of the bell should already be. Of course, the result of such a drastic reduction in this area is the decline in the conductivity of riverbeds, the ability to separate and so on. In short, the systems are collapsing. Some areas of river valleys along unregulated natural streams continue to become more and more frequent and floody due to lack of maintenance. For this reason, farmers are also forced to leave certain areas of farming. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u75	I ask the honourable Members to give peace! I'm gonna ask you one more time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you. Thus, the regulation or irregularity of the water system is certainly the basis or the barrier to the existence and development of the economy and the space in the influential water area. This also, of course, belongs to regional development and this item did not appear in the Ministry of the Environment and the area of any specific item in order to change anything in this area. Much damage has also been done due to the non-maintenance of the mixed and meliorated areas that have been created over the past decades. Without maintenance - protection and destruction in this area, because there are no funds, is unacceptable, and so on in this area there is national damage. Above all, it is important to say, colleagues and colleagues, that from this area, the layer of the Slovenian population, which is on the brink of existence, is that of those with the lowest personal income, who live in an area with the greatest unemployment. I do believe that you, my fellow Members, do not have to stress that this is the Styria part, that this is Podravje, that these are Slovenian Mountains and Haloze, that this is Prekmurje; but it would be expected that there are many Members, fellow Members of Parliament from this area, that some things will begin to move in these areas and in these areas, and unfortunately also in the context of the complementary proposal and, of course, that is not to be seen in the two-year budget proposal. Budget data, maybe someone will want to answer that. Thus, an increase of 34.8% in 2002 is misleading or rather unrealistic, as consumption in 2001 was only 8%. Since the establishment of the Agency, which has acted differently for four months, under another organisation and in this case this has not been taken into account. In any event, if it were normal, it would be good to propose changes in this area in the National Assembly in order to increase the public water service resources adequately in order to increase at least to the extent that it was at the same level as it was in 2001. And even a possible reallocation would be to reduce the resources of the water fund because it is not realistic to expect its functioning and planned to be filled in in 2002. But because, as has already been said today, when the government adopts the budget, the budget is actually adopted, regardless of what Members and Members of the National Assembly will say. Unless a member of the ruling coalition has had sufficient strong comments on part of the budget, this shall be regulated by making an amendment to which the government does not object. In the case of such amendments, members of the opposition do not have any side doors open or detained in order to influence the budget in this way. Therefore, the unreal reporting of national media will be: "The National Assembly has adopted such a budget and such a budget." But since our citizens and citizens cannot see it or hear it directly, it is worrying. If we had the opportunity to see or hear directly, we would know that such a budget has been adopted by the government, so to speak, it is a government coalition; and, secondly, around those amendments that the government does not oppose, there are some amendments that provide more for certain needs of individual Members in the areas from which they come. However, it has no effect on the adoption or regulation of such a budget if you want, including the second largest parliamentary party, of any effect and no possibility of affecting this part. This is the part that speaks of this water economy, which needs to be highlighted again. In the face of disasters, such as floods and, of course, droughts, we are being pursued year after year. And if we were to approach it more professionally, of course we could go through a lot of things here. The second part I wanted to talk about is the share of the 2002 and 2003 draft budget, for what we have adopted or declared as a priority in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the care of Slovenia, for Slovenian minorities and, of course, for Slovenians in place and around the world. The data show that in 1994 we had 0.26% of the total budget share and that in the 2002 proposal we have only 0.13% and 0.12% of the share in 2003 respectively. This means, from 1994 to 2002, in eight years, there is less than an exact half of the funding in this area. Although we are approaching the European Union, and while Europe is particularly committed to border areas, the means of approaching the European Union, of course those already in the European Union today - look only on the Italian side - of course we should take care of and care for, of course, on our part, in order to move things around in this area in the sense that, of course, we should have sufficient financial resources to operate. Finally, the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries adopted in 1996 and, of course, the parts that say that there is a need to increase or that it is necessary to have the means to increase economic growth or increase economic growth among Slovenian foreigners. This, of course, does not mean investing or giving, subsidising funds, but rather encouraging, helping to promote joint performances in this area. When we discussed this issue in the committee itself, of course, it was unheard of. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u77	I beg you again for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u78	The fact that there is also no funding provided for the law on visibility and publicity adopted in this national assembly and, of course, this is not the case, as RTV, which is owned by the State, does not have the easy means to do this in order to carry out work in this area. [[...]] During the discussion, the members of the Commission pointed out that a comprehensive strategy must be drawn up, i.e. certain priorities. Of course, they mentioned the arrangements for teaching the Slovenian language in Canada, the United States, Argentina and Australia in the way it was done in Western Europe. And they have also pointed out that, for Slovenians in countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, where the new countries are now, there are new needs that have not yet been seen in our budget either. In particular, it was stressed that it was necessary and necessary to provide funds for the provision of the law on visibility and soundness. In the end, it was agreed that we would call on the Government to take into account the decision we have taken in this direction when supplementing the draft budget. But if we don't, of course we'll make an amendment. Given that the decision has not been taken into account, an amendment has been prepared and I will, of course, speak more about the amendment when we go from the amendment to the amendment. The third chapter I would like to talk about is regionalisation and, of course, local communities. Look, those fellow Members who are mayors, regardless of which option you belong to, the opposition or the coalition, we all meet together in the composition, i.e. as mayors who propose budgets, with the same problems and problems. It is stated in the calculation for appropriate consumption that 7.8% will be more than in 2001. See, some social benefits, kindergartens, health care, social services, homes and so on have increased towards the end of the year. This means, of course, for the preparation of the budget for the following year, not 7.8% more, but in some areas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Dear colleague Pukšič, the things you are now talking about should be dealt with or should be referred to in previous discussions. I'd like to ask you to limit yourself to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Mr Vice-President, you will agree in your Presidency on what is for the previous and what is for the second reading. I consulted myself or told myself what I was going to talk about, and please leave me alone to say it to the end. However, if you intend to interrupt me, I can also break up and leave this House if it is too much for you to draw the opposition's attention to a particular issue. And I won't let you interrupt me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Mr. Pukšič, why are you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Because you have no reason to interrupt me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Mr. Pukšič, why are you angry, I don't know your reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Because you don't have a word, and leave me alone if I have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u85	I'm just gonna let you know one more thing. Other Members are also restless because you seem to be repeating things that are no longer of interest, they have already heard everything. Thank you very much. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u86	You've really been repeating some things in your life, and I haven't talked about the budget yet today, so let me finish. When I talk about regionalism and when it is said today that the funds for coherent regional development, colleagues and colleagues, are also in this calculation prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities and the amount of financial compensation for 2002 and 2003, of course this does not go far. Financial imbalances are indeed for 33.8 billion, but this financial settlement is for the provision of legal and constitutional tasks. In order to ensure the legal and constitutional functions, and earlier, I have pointed out how the legal and constitutional tasks accumulate, how they reproduce, in short, how the state repeatedly imposes additional burdens on local communities, additional obligations, of course not providing certain resources, which means that the local communities will no longer carry out certain legal tasks, such as infrastructure, utilities and so on. If, of course, it will come this far in this area, so my contribution to leadership was not just that, but it is related to that. So as far as this has come with leadership and catastrophic national damage will come again. Many investments in this area, municipal infrastructures, road infrastructures and investments were made also by specific contracts from the net personal income of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with self-contribution, etc. So it is not true that this is part of regional coherent development. However, it would be true if in this House we had a law on financial compensation, which has been promised for the last three or four years by the Minister of Finance or former Minister of Finance, Mr Gaspari, on financial compensation. On the other hand, or in one of these boxes, there is also a figure of 25 billion and something. These are, however, funds that are surpluses of income over appropriate consumption. With surpluses of overexpenditure, with 25 billion funds, some municipalities can literally swing or drift off into development so far away from those who, of course, do not follow this development, they need not follow that comparability or comparison is almost impossible or catastrophic and of course appears at 1:80 or even more. It doesn't matter whether we give someone who wears a hat and scarf for the winter, or another hat and scarf, but of course it's under the hat and scarf of barefoot and naked. This should be covered by the State and through the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This should be covered by this coherent regional development. The real truth about this coherent regional development is that from 2000 until 2002 we are actually losing or by absolute values we remain on exactly the same numbers. In 2000, two billion 900, in 2002 three billion 900. There is a difference in one billion, but this billion is due to the law that was passed in the National Assembly, specifically the means for Zasavje, i.e. the Zasavska region. As was the case with the Zasav region and as formerly Comrade Sušnik said it would be necessary for the Celje region or for all 12 statistical regions, so all statistical regions should of course be seen, and of course the part that is even more at risk, as shown by the general data of the statistical region in the state budget, not through individual ministries, because of the fact that most of these funds or this money turn around in Ljubljana itself or the surroundings of Ljubljana. Therefore, such implementation of the law on coherent regional development is unacceptable. It is true that we cannot, of course, influence the amendment of the law, that no one is really interested in anything, but I would like to illustrate this with a concrete case. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is two or three days before we have to file applications for sewer subsidisation to the Ministry of Environment and Space. For 2002, we need to have an idea project. For 2003, the projects for 2002 and even the building permits. Tell me how they will be able to participate in these funds from the municipality of Slovenian Mountains, Haloz, Lower Podravja, in short, from demographically endangered areas. These funds, I believe, will be used to build sewage and cleaning plants, but of course where they were prepared years ago, headquarters where projects are prepared for this. In short, it's mostly urban settlements. Of course, we are all paying for this fund in terms of spent water, i.e. a grant that is collected, if it is not invested in the local community, then in the state budget. Too many lifeless cases have been taken. This, for a simple reason, is because many do not want to get deeper or deeper into it and try to bring the matter forward in a way that increases differences. Why this is an interest of this government coalition, I don't know. I did not get an answer to that, but the fact is, all the statistics show that the differences in this country are increasing. In terms of quality of life, in terms of unemployment and, of course, in the conversion of financial shares and, in short, in the capital area. Who and why it is in the interest of the State, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, is not clear to me and, of course, I have not received this answer. However, in this budget, I agree with some of the investments the government wants to make, but at this point it is not necessary to purchase a plane with seven billion Slovenian tolars. If this is allocated to coherent regional development, thereby accelerating development and employment in this area, I believe that in a very short time it will return to the budget of benefits, through economic growth and so on, several times after 7 billion. And that would be more important and, of course, one smart government should think about it that way. You're talking about less revenue and more debt, one way or another. In other words, revenues have been sterilized and sterilized and will increasingly be sterilized by such a guided financial policy, which, of course, has resulted in expenditure multiplying, like rats or rabbits. Unfortunately, this is the wrong policy, the wrong financial approach and the wrong budgets that you have presented in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-28-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm also asking Mr. Ivan Mamić, will he be able to finish in five minutes? [[No, no, ……]] He won't. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning today's session. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all very much for your cooperation. Good night.
