ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, Valentin Pohorec for the morning part of the session, Ferry Horvat for the beginning of the session, Jože Tanko, Pavel Rupar, Janez Podobnik for the beginning of the session, Yuri Malovrov for the beginning of the session, Franz Kangler, mag. Janez Kramberger, Maria Possonec, Roberto Battelli, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Matjaž Švagan, Jelko Kacin, Dorian Marsic, Mario Gasparini, Marko Diaci, Alojz Peterle and Ivan Mamić. Since we will continue to determine the presence, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards. I note that 46 Members and Members are present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, so I welcome them all very much. Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the suspended 12th item - this is a proposal for a law on librarianism. Then we will move on to the remaining points in order. With regard to the work of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the assembly will also meet tomorrow, on Thursday 31 May and on Friday 1 June 2001. I would also like to inform you that, on Thursday, 7 June 2001, the President of the European Commission, Mr Romano Prodi, will address the Assembly in the afternoon. You will be informed of the exact hour of the event. Your Honor! Therefore, we continue to consider the interruption of 12. We ended up on page 22 of the amendments yesterday. The debate on the amendment for the new 60th Article, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proponent, is open. Anybody want to talk about it? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, and I am putting an amendment to the vote for the new 60.a. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 9. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment for the new 61st article, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment for the new article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 63rd article, whose proposer is a group of Members with the first signed Lydia Majnik. The Government of the Amendment supports, as well as the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Representative of the Secretariat, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Therefore, the proposed amendment authorises the competent minister to designate, within three months of the implementation of the proposed law, the body responsible for the inspection of the implementation of this law. With the solution proposed, there is no doubt that, together with the addition to Article 52, which has already been adopted, the Secretariat wishes to follow the relevant comments. However, we estimate that both solutions are still somewhat inconsistent from a legal point of view. Therefore, they are only being assessed as the design of the necessary solutions to ensure that the issue of this supervision is addressed in the next phase of the legislative procedure. So much to avoid understanding that, with the proposed additions, these issues of inspection supervision will be fully and adequately addressed at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alice Ogrinc. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we are moving on to a decision, namely to vote on the amendment for the new 63.a. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 64, under number 1, is the amendment to the amendment of Jožet Tanka to the 64th Article, of which the proposed committee is not supported by the amendment; under number 2, the amendment of which is proposed by Jože Tanko, the amendment does not support the amendment, nor does the amendment support the country's working body and the amendment supports the amendment. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 26 to 26. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are still voting on amendment number two. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 26. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. 61 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes against 6. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 64 has been fully adopted. We have therefore put an end to the second reading vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the remaining articles are fully accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. He voted 41 against no one.) [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the following proposal for a decision in the debate: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss this proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, as well as the representatives of the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on radiotelevision of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Bozidar Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a bill prepared for second reading based on the opinion of the Secretariat on the legislation of the National Assembly. We have also added to this proposal the Government's opinion on a number of initiatives sent or amendments. If I withdraw briefly, the government agrees with the large majority of the proposed amendments on a substantive basis. However, since we believe that detailed solutions or the precise dictates of the amendments are necessary to take a little longer to do so and to weigh them very carefully and prepare them, I would like to reiterate that this time we do not include these amendments in the text of the bill. However, the government undertakes to submit by autumn a proposal for new amendments to the RTV law, on the basis of these initiatives and proposals and on the basis of a number of other initiatives and proposals that you have probably received in this last month. It is particularly important for us to wait for the RTV Council to discuss the institution's medium- and long-term orientations, because this will be a few indicators in which direction and how to continue to develop this institution. On the basis of the debate that has taken place on the Committee on Culture, we conclude that a considerable number of Members tend to make some changes to the current stage of the drafting of the law.This is your decision on how you will decide. Once again, I would point out that the government explicitly opposes the distribution of RTV subscriptions for any other purpose than for the functioning of the public service. Therefore, once again, I would like you not to support the amendment that discusses the distribution of RTV subscriptions, this time for the operation of local and regional radio and television stations, because we believe that this solution is not appropriate and that, of course, we want to have a good and appropriate public service, a good and appropriate public radio and public television. Taking away a material basis or part of a material basis would do the opposite. In such a way that the government strongly opposes this article or this provision, which takes away the RTV part of the subscription. We are also afraid that in this way we will, of course, open the debate on other desires and appetites that some others have before the RTV subscription, and that of course there will never be an end to this. And that would, of course, endanger, in our opinion, the operation of the public institution RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, chairman of the committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! The Committee considered the law that we are talking about today and found that the government in the text submitted to the Committee did not respect the views and conclusions of the National Assembly, but changed the text voluntarily with a text that was in line with the media law. Therefore, the Committee suspended the meeting, called on the Government to correct the text, and when the Government corrected the text in accordance with the conclusions and views of the National Assembly, the Committee continued its meeting. Following the Committee's continuation of the meeting, the main issue was whether this law, which we are considering today, should be considered only as a law which, with regard to the basic law on RTV Slovenia, is aligned with the law on media, or whether this law should also be supplemented by additions in view of the events that took place not long before. Most of the discussers, who also received a letter from RTV journalists from Maribor, also considered the possibility of adopting a new law that will address all the shortcomings that have arisen in the functioning of RTV Slovenia in the past, so that this process can be delayed for a long time. However, these events were of a nature such as to supplement the law with these urgent ones and then propose to the National Assembly what you have before you in order to supplement it. Therefore, when we discuss this, honourable Members and Members, I ask you to support this opinion, which the Committee has drawn up, and at the same time support all the amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? Mrs. Tina Bitenc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. At this stage of the debate, we would like to point out that the amendment to the draft law, which, while being tabled under Article 6, is actually incorporated into Article 5 of the revised text, with the first-signed Member Bojan Kontić, and which seeks to harmonise a certain part of the text of Article 14 of the RTV Act with the media law, is in fact controversial in several respects, in particular in terms of actual compliance with the media law. In fact, we believe that it introduces only more confusion in this area of funding because it is not written precisely because it is written across the limits, as set out in Article 82(2) and (3) of the Media Act, and because even in this part of the criteria and functioning of the Special Supervisory Commission does not define the legal framework for their operation and is in fact even constitutionally disputed in this respect. However, as far as the Commission is concerned, we believe that, in fact, this amendment is not sufficiently defined to enable it to work at all, because it is not clear who calls it, what its specific composition is in the final stage, and who actually takes care of its final design, as I said, from a number of directions. At the same time, I would also say that the amendment, which is in some sense contrary to this amendment and which has been tabled for the new Article 9a, is correct for the new Article 7a, in view of the corrected text of course, from a legal and legal point of view, is also controversial because it attacks the text of the second law - this is the Secretariat's duty to say - and of course refers to that text, which was also introduced into the media law in the face of serious systemic comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you so much for the heads-up. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Bogdan Barovic entered the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. We understand that the government wants to harmonise the most urgent articles with the amendment of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia in order to be symmetrical with the new media law. At the same time, I think that the debate on the working body has been very concrete, sufficiently rich and that the positions of the parent working body, expressed in the amendments, are such that we will support them in the Slovenian National Party. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the amendment that discusses the possibility of co-proposal in the appointment of editors; this, of course, will be particularly supported by the Slovenian national party and, at the same time, I emphasise, all the positions adopted by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Group of Members This moment is an open debate on the opinions of the groups of Members. [[...]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia - I apologize! - Mr. Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So, we came here with last names, too. But it's true that my colleague sitting next to me, Tanko, is no big deal. The law that is before us, about RTV, has, of course, raised a lot of attention in the first reading to the affected and also to the Slovenian public. The law interferes with the functioning of our central public media house, which, as we know, has not been everything for some time as we would have expected, as it should have been, in particular with regard to the quality exercise of public interest in the field of information. We have witnessed a number of complications in the institution, especially with the appointment of the Director-General of RTV, as well as with the appointment of some editors in this house. The specific information we received on the state of the institution, which was the starting point for the strategic business plan provided by the current but former director to the National Assembly, has in fact shown and revealed very directly and openly a number of contradictions between employees, poor organisation of work and non-transparent business. Of course, this also means poor motivation for work and reveals a number of other, poorly exploited opportunities and opportunities in the institution. Some of these shortcomings, of course, are to be addressed relatively quickly with simple solutions, only the will, of course, is required. For others, however, it takes longer and, of course, more serious thought. At first reading, the government wanted to eliminate some necessary cosmetic corrections and compliance with the media law. The possibility has opened up that some necessary harmonisations, corrections and solutions can be implemented even now or, if you want, immediately. The activities of the Slovenian Society of Journalists on TV in Slovenia have drawn up opinions that the Group of Members has compiled and proposed to the National Assembly to accept them as complementary and amending proposals. Some of this was fully accepted by the National Assembly or by the relevant committee and thus gave the opportunity to supplement the content of the law with amendments. Of course, the government has not shown much joy over many views and suggestions. However, the fact is that, although it has verbally expressed itself positively to some proposals, it has proved to be different in practice. At a time when matters needed to be evaluated and prepared for a proposal to be made in the course of the national assembly. Our Group of the Social Democratic Party has thus transformed the majority of the professional and substantively well-founded positions of journalists into amendments with which we believe it is possible to eliminate some of the key anomalies that are disrupting the functioning of the RTV public institution. With the proposals tabled, the amendments are intended to limit the number of mandates of the members of the board of the institution in order to clearly define the public vote in order to clearly organise or limit family ties within Council members with the leading employees in the institution, which are, of course, defined to do so. However, I would like to say that before the abolition of the Institute of Compulsory Positive Opinions of Employees or Consent in the Appointment of Editors, we were able to hear very profound words, what this means, how positive this is, how good this is for all, for workers, for the public service, for the public interest and, of course, for those who are, of course, consumers of this information. Now it has turned out that everything is not so gold, not all gold is sacred, what is prepared, or government, or, if you will, a ruling coalition, which has been reflected in the previous law and are also bad and good. Each cane has two ends, including this stick, which has been carefully removed by this Institute of Compulsory Consent. It has been shown that the correctness of this negotiations on the stick with two ends is fully justified. We therefore also support a solution that requires competent coordination and dialogue with representatives of programme workers in the editorial board in the appointment of responsible editors. We believe that employees, employees must also have an impact on the selection of the responsible editor or team leader and that without their positive opinion it is not in fact good that the editor is appointed. This has proved to be in practice now. We are convinced that by adopting the amendments it is possible to establish better relations, better relations between employees, better working conditions and, of course, more transparent business, which is also important for all taxpayers not to talk about the users of these services. Which, of course, will affect the content and, of course, the financial state. I would like to point out that the amendments are mainly summarised by the RTV profession and trade union proposals and that most of them have also received support in an appropriate working, home-work body. That's why, of course, we'll back it up. However, we do not, of course, support some "ad hoc" solutions that are essential to the content and put in place previous solutions, which also required a change or supplementation of this law. We are convinced that we can also substantially change this law, not just make cosmetic changes, and, of course, we support this law. We are also of the opinion that what we can do radically today does not need to wait until tomorrow to wait a year or two again to show again the bad side of possible cosmetic changes only, and then we will find out again how this law is wrong and how we have not had the chance to do it one year ago or two years ago. That's why we say we do this today and don't wait till tomorrow. The Social Democratic Party supports this law with additions and opinions drawn up by the mother's working body, but "ad hoc" solutions coming to the table, of course we will not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mrs Majda Shirca. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Your Honor! The National Assembly may, when considering the addition of the RTV Act, at least in two places. As was the case in a cross-section or dilemma already dealt with by the parent committee at two meetings of this Supplement or the RTV Act in the second reading. First of all, it is a question of whether we are supplementing the RTV law in just as much as the media law requires, in short, we are coordinating it with it, or whether we are also interfering with the law in those places where the media law does not explicitly require it, but perhaps practice. The government has given a very clear answer to this question. Leave the law alone and do not interfere with it in anything outside of adjustment, now with the existing media laws and also because we will offer you a completely new or complementary or just a further study of the RTV law very soon. Despite the fact that the Parliament, if you remember, adopted a position or conclusion in the first reading of the RTV Act that the Government should consider the possibilities proposed as improvements and put them into the future, i.e. those envisaged new laws, the competent committee nevertheless supported some amendments which introduce additional amendments, particularly those which affect the functioning of the RTV Slovenia Council or one which also regulates the way in which fees are collected or the legality and rules around it are collected. These were amendments relating to the appointment of members of the Council of RTV Slovenia. In particular, those who are members of RTV Slovenia must not be in close family ties or conclude contracts where they have a relationship with the institution. This is the item - I am talking about the amendments supported by the Committee - which speak of a mandate, a limited mandate for members of the Council, a public vote and co-proposal. In the LDS, we believe that this is not a question - although some believe in the LDS that these issues are more likely to be the result of current developments and the result of adjustments to the current developments in the RTV public house - but we do not necessarily consider whether they would be challenged and acted in the opinion of the government that carries these changes once in the future, or whether we would support them. We think maybe they're not that fateful. We believe, however, that two amendments, which we have already received from the secretariat, are more fatal. These two amendments are part of the coordination with the media law, for sure. Mr Kontić is the first to sign, and I am the first to sign the second. And we will continue or I will explain this amendment, but we should stress the following in Mr Kontic's amendment. In his amendment, Mr Kontič proposes that in - or proposers - we introduce into the RTV law the provision voted in Article 82 of the Media Act. This means that 3 per cent of the fee intended for the public service should be set aside for local, regional and other non-profit radio and television programmes. So unconsistent is the proposal from a legal point of view, it has already been warned. However, from a substantive point of view, I would like to state the position of the LDS. In short, we have adopted a law on media at the last meeting, including the one already cited in paragraph 82 or two of the new paragraphs of this Article, which say that for the preparation of the programming components of local and regional radio and television programmes, we can allocate 3% of the funds for these programmes and that for the construction, maintenance and operation of a broadcasting network for the intervention of local, regional and student programmes, or non-profit programmes, funds are provided from the state budget. According to the public authorities, these two paragraphs, or three, are at least disputed so that, as I am aware, they have been submitted to the Constitutional Court for review, with a proposal to suspend their implementation because the public institution is a damaged party in this case or will feel the consequences or consequences of this implementation, if I may say so. In addition, the introduction or correction of that provision and the current proposal by a Member or Members, which would, for example, legalise this situation, include other consequences. The 3% intervention in the legally designated public institution is approximately 438 million per year. There can also be much more, since we have voted in the law for the last time so complemented that it is not clear in any way how this percentage is taken and where, whether monthly or annual, it collects, pumps and so on, and so on, that neither criteria nor allocations are given. There is no way to calculate the amount of funds in the law, as I say. Therefore, this previously quoted assessment is also highly variable. The Media Act also does not specify who would decide on the allocation of these funds, as it only refers to the funding criteria to be drawn up by the Ministry of Culture, rather than who would divide them. However, the proposed withdrawal of these 3% interferes with the funds provided for by law. It's not just that. It is also a breach of the constitutional provisions on taxes, since the contribution to RTV Slovenia programmes is clearly prescribed a duty to fulfil the State obligations given as a public authority to exercise the public service to fulfil State obligations. However, as you know, the State prescribes taxes, customs and other duties by law, while local community taxes and other charges are prescribed for the fulfilment of local obligations. Almost all of Europe is supported by local, regional and other non-profits, in which public interest is not expressed, mainly from the funds of local communities or other funds or partly from such funds. We must also note that RTV Slovenia is in debt, paying off interest on credits, until the repayment of credits comes at all. In addition, the current law already supports two regional centres, Maribor and Cyprus. With transmitters and links, which I suppose we will still be harmonising in this law, which has already been harmonised in the media law, local, regional and other non-profit programmes are receiving free transmission, transmission of their messages to broadcasters through the air. On the other hand, I am focusing on two other amendments, which, according to the Group of Members, are much more fateful than others, and this is another amendment, which has been warned to interfere with the media law. However, I warn you, in the media law, we have interfered with another law. This would, if supported - and the LDS in most will - support the other amendment, in short, the one who returns 3% of the contributions to the RTV public house back, to their use, as is the case with the law allocated, in this case they would regulate the situation and in some way avoid and acknowledge that we have intervened in the rules of the public service in a very non-constant manner in the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. We are now moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure - in the second reading of the law we are, Members and Members will have the opportunity to discuss and give an opinion on individual amendments - after the discussion and the vote on amendments and the articles are concluded, and to vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. So we are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2001, and also on the amendment which is not under review, this is the amendment of 24.5.2001, tabled by the group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca, and you have received the bench. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting first the amendment to Article 5, which is on the first page of the review, of which the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic, was the representative of the secretariat, Ms Tina Bitenc, delivered an opinion. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kontic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The introduction by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs explained that the amendment had been incorrectly located. All I want to do here is explain why this mistake happened. The text for the second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on RTV Slovenia was published in Rapporteur No 27, 20 April 2001. This contained Article 3 with the content that Article 10 of the existing law should be deleted. When the Government was warned that this could not be done, it amended this bill, which was published in Rapporteur No 40 on 15 May, and deleted Article 3 and thus renumbered all the other articles. That's why there's been this mistake. At that time, we had just tabled an amendment to Article 6, because in the basic text of Article 6 this content, which now contains Article 5 in the amendment of the law, had this content. I will not discuss the contents of this amendment much, or I will not talk about it, because many words have been said in the media law. I would just like to say that we were taught at the time when we proposed to amend or supplement the media law, that it is a roof law and that it is wrong to write or accept this amendment, and that it is the right way to incorporate this amendment into a special law, is the RTV law. Well, we insisted at the time, and this amendment was also adopted in the roof law, and now we only want it in a special law, so to speak, to do what is enshrined in the media law. The amendment can be legally disputed, and it can probably also be constitutionally disputed - I do not want to even dispute this with the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. But all these things can be complemented in the third reading, even though someone will tell me. Yesterday there were indications in this direction that it was not appropriate to accept something in another reading and then to correct it in the third reading. I think it is more meaningful this way than in the third reading to make substantive changes to something that we did not intervene in the second reading in this article. As I have already said, I would like the amendment to be supported and recast by the third reading in order to meet the legal provisions. And of course we also have this option, of course, provided that this amendment is adopted in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. They spoke, first Mr Christmas, then Mr Moge and then Mr Ferry Horvat. I respectfully ask that we limit ourselves to the amendment we have before us in the debates. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted this 3% in the media law, I know there was a lot of fire, somewhere else, not here in Parliament. I don't see any RTV representatives at the gallery today either. That means they don't care what we accept. The second thing I'd say, and I've already said a few times in this room. In Tolminsk, Primorska's radio doesn't sound good. We built the TV transducers ourselves. In agreement with the municipalities of Bohinj, Railways and Tolmin we met on the Soriška mountain and then on Petrov Brdo six years ago. Nothing's changed. If you drive by car, you will not hear the radio program of Slovenia from Idria to Logatco. I've been driving for five years, so calm souls say it. Somewhere else, not even in the Sokka Valley. And when we talk to RTV, we don't achieve anything. And when a Member comes to Parliament, when he says so, nothing depends. Mr. Government Representative, tell me where else we can turn. Tell me that. Is RTV special in this country? Do we not adopt laws in this hall? Is our word really nothing? That's all I'm saying in support of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I would like to say that the Committee has not identified itself to this addition, not because it is an interested public, but because these are the local stations and the regional and student stations, which would obtain funds from this, have sent to the Committee a proposal of a similar, almost similar amendment, which Mr Kontic then took. However, none of the members of the committee at the meeting proposed either to take over the authorship of this amendment on their own or to propose that the committee should become the author of this amendment. And I believe that the committee then assumed this thought that it is not in the RTV law, where the contribution is precisely specified, to play in such a way as to include in this contribution other laws, as was already the case with the Film Fund Act. 5% would take this law 3%, then someone else remembers and again this contribution is saying that this contribution that citizens and taxpayers pay from their own money means that if we go to other activities from it. [[...]] Whether or not we're going to demolish the state television that comes out of it and barely gets in the way of stability, we're going to put it here. The point is that then the system that we have, the state and the local government, in this way, will somehow be undermined by this funding. It seems to me that more than clearly local communities should be concerned, participate in these local and regional stations and that the state in this law is already sufficiently concerned in Article 3 and 4 of the existing article, as well as in the media law, either with the fund or by helping them transfer these programmes through the relevant networks; this is where the state is involved. And now, of course, the question remains, will we then, if we adopt this law, for the first time, increase the contribution by 3% and we will pay the taxpayers, will we stay the same and then who will collect this 3%? [[...]] Or RTV? And then what kind of body will take care of this distribution? For this reason, it seems to me that what the secretariat has already pointed out in the adoption of the media law and, as it is today, that the adoption of such an amendment is systematically controversial, I do not imagine a Member who is committed to two million people to accept systemic disputes in the National Assembly, which, on the other hand, will have a reason for someone to be in the higher courts, is said to be in the judiciary, seeking solutions for these matters. For this reason, at least I will not personally support this, but I must say that the committee has had enough attention and is in other branches, either in the media or in what I said earlier, in the dissemination of these contents, when it comes to the fund, all these solutions to facilitate and improve the quality of the local and regional media, so that all these things are supported by the committee. Unfortunately, some Members who now swear and support such a solution did not take part in the vote when this fund had to be filled, either in some way contributing to advertising or anything else. I believe that the lobbies are playing their part here too, but I think it would be a mockery if we unanimously elected the director of RTV Slovenia to join him in the same week or a week later by adopting such an amendment immediately. That's why I think it's wise if we want to keep this part of the agenda so we don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. First, Mr Ferri Horvat, then Mr Juban and then Mrs Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and Secretary of State! I will support this amendment myself, although I'm not at all sure that this solution with 3% is really the best, but I consider it an emergency exit until we have a better solution. The fact is that this behaviour is already in the previous law, and of course now, we are essentially showing in addition to the attitude towards RTVS as a central or central national radio-television house, which I appreciate and which is indispensable and necessary, but we are also showing a relationship to local or regional programmes that play an increasingly important role and - look at the data - that people are increasingly listening to. Timely even more than a central programme, not because this central programme would be bad, but because local, regional programmes have content that is as broad as informative, cultural. They are a connecting factor in regions that are not institutionally organised, sometimes even the only ones, and ultimately also cover nationality, Slovenes in substitution and so on, not to mention. These are very important content and it is therefore reasonable and necessary that this country or taxpayers and listeners in particular, who pay the RTVS subscription fee, that one part of the money goes for these purposes. I'm not sure these 3% are going to put RTVS and the new CEO and his team at risk on ambitious plans. Even vice versa, I would call and expect RTVS leadership to have more hearing to look for with local, regional cooperation stations, complementarity, even certain common solutions. In terms of programming and also in financial terms, this can bring a certain advantage. Sometimes local programs also covered part of the correspondence network. This could also be done today, even more so because these programs, some of them, are technically and also highly staffed. We have two regional centers. I think, now not in this law likely, there will be no time and no purpose of this, but when this law will be fully addressed in the fall time, or when it will actually be needed with the leadership of RTVS, together with the management of regional programmes, because I agree that sometimes they may have very unilaterally represented their interests and lobbying well, it is their legitimate right to seek together to set up a more appropriate network and from a programme and financial perspective of radio television in Slovenia. As are the arrangements in some other countries where they combine local and national content. This makes sense, its complementarity, and I can say that it also has positive financial results. Two regional centres to play a regional coverage function. Colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that this was a good solution in the past, when there were not as many local, regional programmes as there are today. In fact, I would not say now that these two regional programmes, which are financed or co-financed by the subscription, need to be abolished. No, no, no. Recheck the actual overall organisation and then look for a suitable solution. Let me get this over with. Colleagues and colleagues! Polycentrism and not centralism must also be more supported in this area. We see such centralism that, in all areas, in administrative, economic and other areas, I do not say where else, it is getting stronger, while we see that trends in Europe are going in a different direction and that one of these new arrangements could also contribute to the realisation of this polycentric regime, to the satisfaction of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban is giving up. Dear colleagues, my friend! I ask you politely not to return the debate to the debate we have had in the media law. Undoubtedly, those who proposed the amendments were told that the amendment that we are currently considering was merely to discuss how to spend 3%, the amendment of the Group of Members for the new Article 7 to decide whether or not to return to the Media Act on these 3%. As long as we repeat today's debate on the eligibility of this 3%, I think we can deal with this again for two days. So I ask that we really limit ourselves to Mr Kontic's amendment, which has worked out how to use this 3% in some way. Mrs Shirca, then Mr Leo Kremjar and then Mr Školč. Please, in accordance with the agenda, only this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	Madam President! I will certainly not interfere with the debate that has already been held, nor will I raise questions about where a further scenario would lead in terms of re-opening new RTV Slovenia accounts with other potential future applicants. I'd just like to analyze the amendment that we have before us in its nonconsistentness, at least three points, if you'll excuse me. Here, in the second paragraph, we note that 3% of RTV Slovenia’s contribution is allocated annually to 3% of RTV funds. In the third paragraph, we have: "They are allocated monthly to a special exclusive account of RTV Slovenia and are divided once a year." We're already in an unconstant position here. Not to mention the question of how this collected contribution is being accounted for, which I would not open here right now. In the second place, this quota is allocated to a special, excluded account of RTV Slovenia. RTV Slovenia must thus create a "by-pass" account in order to be charged by these 3%. The public agency does not even point to the possibility that was open when we discussed the media law when we introduced a fund that would then enrich this media space, which would make this media space rich. The Fund will have a call for proposals. This public or excluded account of RTV Slovenia should also have a public invitation to tender, but under completely different rules, as would be logical, also in accordance with the media law, where we know that it is defined in accordance with the law of interest with the umbrella law in culture. This is where this invitation to tender is supposed to appear. The criteria for it, or even the distribution criteria, are to be drawn up by the Ministry of Culture. It is not clear who will call for this invitation to tender. On what criteria and judgements it will be divided, it is not clear. In the first paragraph, we further have or have concluded that a certain part of these funds is also intended to maintain and operate the transmission network necessary for the broadcasting and dissemination of local, regional and so on programmes. But already article 11 of the RTV Act says that broadcasters and associations are obliged to spread to other publishers, not just their own, according to their RTV Slovenia program. In short, we could continue here to point out the nonconsistencies that will arise in practice. I think that even legal violations that would have occurred - I warned only three of them not to continue. In this sense, it is very questionable if we simply decide to support the nonconsistence, not only in the substantive but also in the implementation sense, the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Leo Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. So we need to know basically what the subscription is for. I'm talking about the old subscription, so of course we'll know exactly what it is. This is not - and thus I am partly trying to respond to my colleague Horvath's thinking about the regional stations that are within the RTV system. The subscription or the money we pay the subscribers is due to the national content of RTV, not because it is a house - I hope that someone does not think so - which is located in the middle of Slovenia or which covers the whole territory and so on. Of course, that's not essential. It is essential that this money is obtained from this house because it creates important national content and is paid for it. These national important content are, of course, from informative to production of speech, music and so on, but I will not explain all of this because these are commonly known things. Inside this system are both radio and television houses, Radio Maribor or RTV center Maribor and RTV center Koper, with its units in Nova Gorica, in connection with Lendava and so on, also because they implement and implement, all together, national content. So there are not two regional stations in a privileged position, but the matter is completely different. Because of this, the system of division would, and this is what this amendment is talking about, which would interfere with the subscription, which is to help carry out these national functions - so I do not claim that no one else does these national functions, but the current system allows, and here I agree with what my colleague Horvat proposes and thinks, allows for participation in these national content and allows the possibility, of course, of paying for it. I deeply agree that this needs to be linked, that it needs to be organised differently, that it needs to be approached, and this house will have to do so. But I don't think this is the right way, because if this money, if it were as it was written in this amendment, of course it wouldn't be meant for it. This requires a specific system, and this could be one of the tasks that the government would undertake along with RTV when drafting a new proposal, as we were promised, in a very short time. So I think it's important to note that this is about some other relationship and some other relationship, and it's not just about RTV getting some money, and others don't get that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, please, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'll try to stay on what's written in this amendment. I must say that the most true word I find when I read this text from a legal point of view is that I am simply indignant, that it is possible, after all these discussions we have had, on the one hand, about the role of the media and on the other hand about Radiotelevision Slovenia, that something like this can happen at all. As far as I'm concerned, I have to say that it was a big mistake, in my opinion, but today it's in the law in force, that with the media law we reached out to the law on RTV and took this 3%, but we didn't say how to make it happen. From this point of view of the amendment proposed by Mr Kontić and the co-thinkers, it does not remove misunderstandings but, in fact, only deepens them. And it also shows that, in fact, those of me who thought they were too strong, that they were nothing more than a robbery mentality and that no one really cared about whether it was even possible, without suffering the procedures that were used in similar situations in the Republic of Slovenia for cultural and, say, other programmes. This does not, I will say, have nothing to do with assessing the importance of local media, it has nothing to do with assessing the quality of local media, even having nothing to do with having some comments on the work of the public broadcaster. But look what Mr Kontic is proposing now. After that, he realized that with this 3% would be nothing, because there was no implementation mechanism. After this amendment, the confusion will be even greater. I do not imagine that RTV, as a house that opposes it, would voluntarily collect this 3% and devote it to someone else who may be considered a complementary activity, but could rightly be regarded as some kind of competitive activity or, at least, to them, I will say that it is harmful because it takes part of the revenue provided by another law. I can't imagine that they could actually -- because it doesn't say so -- force them to collect money for someone else without paying them something. Why is that? This is one thing this amendment is not saving. If, I don't know, these bodies that I'm going to talk about, I'm going to make a contract with RTV to do this for their account, which is what would normally be - all such transactions, if you're going to do it in a bank, or anywhere, or insurance companies, cost something - then it's necessary to see whether it makes sense to solve the problem of local and regional radio and television houses at all. I think not, but in one part, the other mechanisms that have been used have not been adopted by the media law. But look. This is where the amendment goes, I will say, through the dictatorship of the media law also in saying 'the maintenance and operation of the broadcasting network necessary for the broadcasting and dissemination of local and regional and student radio and television programmes is of particular importance for these purposes'. Does this mean: what does the media law mean, does it mean something more, or does it relate to this 3%, or is it related to anything third? This thing, as written, raises questions, but it doesn't answer. But it gives justifiable expectations to those listed here. From this point of view, of course, I find it irresponsible to make a promise that cannot then be realized, which is not the basis in other laws. Mr Kontic must have the answer to that too, and I may be wrong. Now we have this markedly excluded account, which was also used when other unique solutions were sought, and from this point of view, if it were, it would probably not be the only one envisaged by the legislation; but a division that runs, as it says here: "in cooperation with broadcasters and television broadcasters, the competent broadcasting agency takes on special importance" and includes a public invitation to tender. If there is an invitation to tender, then it is difficult for those competing in the invitation to tender to participate. That's not normal. It is usually necessary - you will remember in particular the discussion that I will not talk about other areas, the areas governing the same thing, that we discussed some problems related to the functioning of the RTV Council and the appointment of the Director-General, there were many comments that, in fact, even these people, hypothetically, this is not my conclusion, that I am building on some of the interests and that, therefore, they cannot even decide on this director, that there are civil society representatives there. As a rule, it is necessary to ensure that those who have a material interest do not have, I will say, relatives or employees in bodies who manage these public competitions. At least it's disgusting. This solution legitimizes it, and this is a unique one in this country.It is understandable, however, because it is a matter of dividing this prey more or less - for example, according to them - probably fairly. Then there's a big question about why we should involve the broadcasting agency. He has completely different powers. Programmes practically none. From this point of view, this is, I'll say, a misaligned organ. Even if we talk about the world of broadcasting, which is assessing some programming content, it also adopts a programme or guidelines for development, for example, this media field, there is a principle that, in fact, those bodies where the country is involved - at least in culture - should refrain from judging the content. The Broadcasting Council rules, the pardon agency mentioned here does not do other things, and I suppose it is wrong to impose this on it and there will be experts who will discuss others - let's say technical problems, radio spectrum problems, not financial and programming individual local and regional stations. From this point of view, this is Mr Kontic's disastrous proposal and his fellow Members. Uncompromising! It's against the laws you've passed! Then it goes on how this control will run over the implementation of co-financing. It's one more mess of a mess. This surveillance would again be made by a special commission where you'd be back from the agency. Why control yourself if we decide to make a decision? The opposition would be able to tell you a lot of things about how it works with someone controlling themselves. It is usually at least one division between different authorities. This is about the fact that some of you actually do the same thing. I am limited to what is written in this text, and I do not want to talk on purpose about other horrors, which are implied by greed for these 3 percent, which can also be compensated in significantly more successful and different ways. Then it says the Ministry's representatives are inside. It would be very good to know which one. Is it the one who adopted the law that has the broadcasting agency or the one who was the host of the bill - the broadcasting council or the third? I hope we know what we're talking about. These are very important things. Or perhaps the one who actually cares about the exercise of local interests, which would make sense by content. So, in a timely manner, to understand each other, the internal ministry, as far as the exercise of these interests is concerned. All I'm saying is that the proposal is weak, catastrophic and will not ensure the implementation of this beautiful desire for 3% of the funds belonging to someone else. What puzzles me in this context and not only is that part of the people who were shaking yesterday when we discussed the law reaching into this network of libraries, to the so-called district library in Murski Sobota, but today it can do the same in another area. That's incomprehensible to me. To end up sitting here just to ensure some little rights for those with whom we drink "sprink" or morning coffee on Saturday and Sunday. It just doesn't work. At least the same principle should be kept for two days in a row. If you spoke in one way yesterday, let's talk today about a problem that is structurally similar in the same way. These are, I'll make these comments, which are open to this text. So if we accept this text, we're going to have more questions and there's going to have to be another law where someone is going to study again, what's going to have to be done to get to that 3%. That's the logic. Here it is easy to accept that this initial idea was still problematic and that, I will say, an honorable way to get out of this, in fact the acceptance of the other amendment, which will come later on, which technically interferes again with another law, but in the way that it returns the blow - if you want - and corrects what was wrong in the media law. It is said that it removes that breach in this law, which we are now discussing, which has been inadmissible in the media law. From this point of view, it seems to me that things can come at this point in time only if we delete the solutions that lead us into these things. I hope that at least one of those who helped write Mr Kontić this amendment has convinced me not to leave all of this, as he says in good faith, for the third reading. At the third reading, we're going to have 10 more articles trying to solve this 3%. Perhaps it will prove that we will go even deeper than we have done with these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Christmas has a replica of the implementation of Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, Mr. Ambassador, I certainly don't drink syringes with anyone on Saturdays and Sundays. Not from local radio or television stations, in particular. That's why I don't allow myself to say it. Not here in Parliament, anywhere else. And second of all, let's just accept this amendment. Everything you've listed, we'll write it down for you. To be like the need for all other laws. Don't worry, we can write! I'm just afraid there's this thought between us: nothing can happen to RTV. That's all that's wrong. Why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Some thought was given to me by my fellow schoolboy. However, I would like to ask the proposed amendment, which has a lot of competent people in the party who are involved in this area - either on RTV or on the Ministry - a few questions to shed light on my mind. The first is that there are two types of RTV power supply in Article 14, which speaks of financing. The first is, as we call it here, the fee. The second is the state budget, if we look at it. And to the extent that Mr Kontič would correct in the state budget the indent that reads "part of the costs for the construction, maintenance and operation of the network and the broadcasting and distribution of RTV Slovenia programmes and local non-commercial stations" in order to add "creating" and so on, then this solution would be such that it means "drinking water" to me. Which means, in the state budget, when the budget is adopted, we would say so much and so much money is involved. He told the minister how much it's going on with the Murski wave, how much it's going on, how much it's going on in Velenje. We would have one review, the state would keep an eye on it and help, as it is now helping with this line in the state budget for the maintenance and operation of the network. That would seem clear to me. Now, Mr Kontic, the next question. First of all, why exactly 3%? How did you come to this question? That's, in fact, 800 million. And since here, after these RTV activities, the subscription is precisely explained how and what, I would ask you now that this fee is being collected, whether you, when you tabled this amendment, will take RTV Slovenia this and thus limit RTV Slovenia's programmes - and as far as this sum is concerned. Or do you think the adoption of such an amendment is a lop by the pocket of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia who pay RTV subscription. "Tertium..." there's no third here in this case. This means whether these programmes, which are now established by law, will shrink, national and we will expand local and regional, or we will increase the fee, because, of course, we who are here will probably, and all the others who are paying it, will give an increased fee. [[...]] It seems to me that this solution is with this 3% and to go to this contribution - or under the term "tax", I don't think it's wise. Once again, this is a systemic dispute. This is what the Secretariat, which I respect, has already warned against the media law. Pre-transmission is here - again, if we are going to adopt such laws, then this law will also be one of those black points if we adopt it - at the end of the term for which our voters will say, "Thank you very much for having accepted it."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Partljič has the floor, and then you want to give an explanation first to Mr Zorko and then to Mr Kontić. Mr. Partich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	I am mainly on the side justified by my colleague Moga, our parliamentary group and my colleague, Jožef Školč, sitting with me. I would like to explain this in a way, because there is no reason to disagree, say, with Mr Ferri Horvat's debate on the importance of regional information also for, say, the whole national view of Slovenia. But you, Madam Vice-President, have warned us - completely justified, respected and dear - that we should not go back to some old debate. Of course you're right, and I'm sticking with you. But this amendment, however, something that went on at some doors out, this thing brings it back to the chimney. So it's gonna be hard not to talk about it. The issue seems to me, on the one hand, that it is not an accident that Jože warned about yesterday's debate, where, for example, the lady was absolutely right that we should do everything for the library network in a national or minority space. That's absolutely right. As my colleagues are right, they say we need to pay attention to regional radio and television stations. But I don't know what's in our heads that's always on someone's account and on account of some system. This is a second discussion, and I think we need to open it, and Rudy has now shown that we have actually talked about this in the budget. After leaving me in the media law this 3%, some colleagues who own, i.e. private regional or radio or television stations - they showed me one in Velenj, which I think best of all, and about that TV program, also about the program - some of his friends said to me, "Look at him, he's sick," and he was also in the hospital, "he got sick of this torment because we didn't give him 3%." Although she has been on television for ten years, we have been talking about this problem for only a few months. So he didn't invest, thinking we'd give him this 3%, long ago! We've only been talking about this for a few months. But someone else told me he'd hang himself if he didn't get that money, because that's not how it's going to go on, even though he's had the facility for so long, and we've only been talking about this option for a few months. So, don't give us responsibility for regional media now that we've gone to regulating the media law and national television. I am a Mariborian myself; the Mariborians often misunderstand me and tell me that I "kissed" - and some centralistic things. But, "krucifix", we've got national television somewhere! And if we have it in Ljubljana and if we demand it to be good, and we want to give it a chance - don't tell me it's centralism! The BBC is in London, and God help them, and the Scots aren't right, but somewhere national television has to be at home. And because he's at home in Ljubljana, I'm going to tell them we're going to take something from them, so that someone else has something else, I don't know. I don't think that's State's concern for the state. At the same time, I think - perhaps you are, Mr Secretary, or you will be, I apologize if I am being unfair about this - somehow I feel that I do not see the position of the government. I find that scandalous! On such a big issue that we are dealing with here, there is no government position! I would not like to think that, in fact, this position is known to the government. [[...]] I'm sorry. Is the government’s position known? [[Answer from the bench.]] I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry in advance. I'm sorry. Well, it still seems to me that it should be explicitly written. Because it would not be right for a person to see a connection here that might also be logical. But I think it should be. In short, I think the fight for the regional development of Slovenia, for the regionality of the media, is another battle. We're talking about RTV today and I think it's there: some money is going to split, we have to be there. And from that point of view, I find the matter unconstant. And now the fate of regional media to tie to these 3 percent, which we're only talking about for a while, seems to me to be incorrect.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. He wishes to replicate Mr Juban and then he has the word Mr Zorko, then Mr Kontic and Mrs Tina Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I am speaking because, on the basis of the debate before this article, I think, at least the Mariborians should be quiet. This is because colleague Majda Širca mentioned in her performance what she writes or which finances RTV contribution - that in addition to the national programme also regional Maribor and Koper. I agree with many arguments, especially the secretariat, which says that the solution is not good, including many debaters. And I gave up the debate earlier because I had roughly estimated that, from a local or regional point of view, Ferri Horvat had outlined the matter. But imagine that in this marriage - I am not among those who would say, because we do not get, they should not get, or the neighbor should die a cow, because it is my calf. But imagine that in this law they would actually do me one national programme that would be covered by RTV Ljubljana - Ljubljana! - and to close the pipes to someone else, how the press conference would have the mayor of Maribor and what to say! And if we have already in some way accepted that it is a necessity not to return to - recently - the discussion of Comrade Terchón, who spoke of several majorities in the country of Slovenia, it seems to me that we should not at least be overly wrong about things that we should somehow overlook. And if there is a national programme, let us solve one and regional differently, but not in a way that then, like "we are covered by this central national and the other, let's say we are not". Let me get this over with. I agree with many of the objections that the solution proposed by my colleague in this amendment is not the best, but let us try to think differently nonetheless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The execution of Mr. Juban has triggered a desire for two replicas. First Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Answer? [[...]] Really very briefly, please, because we are already moving away from the basic amendment that we are considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Instilling a conceitor with a liberal democrat, Mr Juban, is not appropriate, and with a sentence like you started, you are not going to gain any glory. I'll say what I want to say here, whether I'm from Maribor or not. However, I would like to say that it would be good if a person debated that he should at least read Article 3, which states: "Information on the events and presentation of the interests of the provinces, the programme for the national communities and the programme for the Slovenian minority provides RTV Slovenia in particular through units in Maribor, Koper and Lendava and through local programmes Murski val, Murska Sobota, and Koroška radio Slovenj Gradec: "Quod erat demostrandum": - or what needed to be said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Look, we're actually gonna drift away and go into some weird waters if we go to argue about who gets what and who doesn't get what. I thought I was clear enough before, but obviously I wasn't -- what the money is for, we call it, we called it our time, because it's clearer, but now it's a fee. It is intended for what my colleague Moze read; and it is not intended for some radio in Maribor and some radio in Ljubljana and some television in Maribor, Koper and Ljubljana, but it is intended for these national content. It is also intended for all those who implement these contents, including, say, the Wall Wave and some others, in segments because they carry out these matters. That's all I'm saying: let's not take the matter on the sidelines and look for a contradiction where, of course, we don't have to look for it, because it's not about it, it's about something else. We are talking about whether this money, which is intended for the implementation of national content, radio and television, and, in the vast majority, is carried out by RTV, as it is organised, is also decentralised in some segments, which is commendable and still needs to be expanded, in my opinion, whether it coincides with this proposal that 3% of it is eliminated and, of course, committed to something other than national content. But I have to add the following. I don't think only RTV implements national content, and others do it in some segments, but this is a thing that needs to be specially worked out, this is a thing that needs to be decentralised also, in my opinion, done, and some new, better, more consistent law prepared to regulate this whole area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. And now he has the word Mr Kontic, then Mr Zorko and then Mrs Tina Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I signed up for my colleague Mohet right away, but it looks like we didn't get along, and it's no big deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	Excuse me! I thought it was a discussion, not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	Yeah, because I've discussed it before. Word treasure - and if I start a little bit more with my colleague Školč, he also has a little replica. The word treasure used by Mr Školč is, however, foreign and seems to be very useful. But it's really a question of if it's a treasure. As far as the horrors mentioned in this amendment are concerned. I have a special cultural thinking about horror. But I'm not talking about who deserves culture, doesn't deserve it in the last term. About robbery mentality: It is usually the way people who are close to them prefer to talk about it. But as far as "scrapers" are concerned, Mr. Skullch, but I like to drink them, but not "scrapers," I usually pour myself pure wine. However, I am more answering the question asked by my colleague Mojet, who directly asked me. Which means 3%, whether it's "the thief in the pocket" of taxpayers or those who pay the contribution. I think the biggest money thief of taxpayers or taxpayers of this contribution is 100%, not 3%. If you don't mind. As for what we took back in the media law and brought back here, Mr Partljič. In the media law, that's exactly what we've adopted, that's 3%. That's where we wrote them down, and now we're putting them into this law. Let me add this to Mr. Mohet. He was one of those who convinced me that it was necessary to regulate this in the RTV Act and not in the media law. Now, though, the matter has turned around again. And he also pointed out that up to 2 million citizens and citizens in Slovenia should be held accountable and not to take on a system-wide solution. Mr Mogue, you have also signed one non-systemic solution, to which the secretariat also responded. And that's exactly the article that returns these 3% contributions back to RTV and interferes with the media law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	The difference, Mr. Kontic, between you and me is that I will listen to the secretariat. If it's non-systematic, I won't vote for it and let myself learn. And you didn't answer that question of mine in my best interest to communicate with each other. Why exactly 3%, and what does this mean with these percentages: will this increase the contribution? However, if the contribution remains the same, it means that you will take it from someone: either national minorities, or RTV or anyone else. That's what I specifically asked you because I'm really interested in these things. Why didn't you go to 2.5%, why didn't you go to 4%, why not 5%? What calculations have you had because obviously, I say, you have been extremely well informed and you have also communicated with people who are interested in the public to accept this. And because you have all this infrastructure at your disposal, I would like to know why you brought this thing to this limit and why you didn't do what I say - and it would probably be accepted - in this 14th article and even earlier in the media, if you've already set the height by the media law, that 3 percent, as far as I'm concerned - you haven't brought this thing out of the state budget, but you've put these things into play.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic and then Mr. Skull. Two replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Why 3 percent? The proposal was 5 percent. When we were talking and looking for consensus, we found or were thinking that 5 percent was too much. Therefore, it was agreed between the signatories to the amendment that 3 per cent was the right number, which could also be supported by the National Assembly. Essential differences: either from the budget or from the contribution of the RTV subscription, I do not see, both are paid by taxpayers or nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If from the state budget, of course, this means that this needs to be regulated in the state budget and that is where it should be written down or accepted. However, the fee or contribution is regulated by this law. It is said that with the law on RTV Slovenia and he is talking about these contributions, the media law is also talking about these contributions. That is why we are talking about this contribution to RTV, which is called RTV contribution, and not the funds from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture. First the replica, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I have to say that I really don't care, not who drinks pure wine, not someone "sprinkler" and so on and so on, and at this level I don't intend to discuss any further, because I understand Mr Kontić's remark that we have a different vocabulary. And I don't want to talk to you literally. What I would be interested in him and asked him was: not telling me what he was drinking - not even interested in who he was drinking with - but: how will he resolve those questions that I was talking about asking them that article - presumably, even for a third treatment. But it would be very good for me to be convincing about this even today. To tell us why he chose - for example - a broadcasting agency. Is there a basis in the law for this? To tell why he gathered the method of agreement and invitation to tender at the same time, and why he collected what I said earlier, that those who distribute money also control it. And so on. There was more to the question. To this discussion about who also covers local interests, I would say, if this convinces anyone, I have already said before that this has no special connection, that I do not remember an important event in Slovenia, at any end of the day, that it would not have been as correct and sometimes too aggressive as the broadcaster's house. Let's say it's about harvesting in Prekmurje, let's say it's about accidents at different ends, the Plaza in Logo under Mangart, where only this house can actually be by moving the teams there, so to speak, reporting. From this point of view, it seems to me that we are trying to wash our conscience when we say, because others are also reporting, and that is why they are entitled to these same resources. That's not what this is about. The Media Act also has article 110, which is valid, which speaks of a fund that allows the Fund to support the development of audiovisual culture in the broadest sense in Slovenia. Here I see, I will say, a solution if this national assembly - in particular the government and the ministry - assesses that these programmes are so important that a certain part of the money is allocated to them and is distributed through a mechanism which is set up there. At the moment you have different resources, plus the budget where it says, I think in the transitional provisions that at least 400 million should be provided. As a result of me, special money can also be made available for these programmes, which Mr Horvat and others are talking about. But I don't think this is going to work, because in principle it means that this fee, which, by the way, is not paid by taxpayers, but by the way, by the owners of these electric counters, that they also have satellite or radio apparatus, and I'm going to say that it doesn't completely subsummate this notion of taxpayers, but it probably overlaps with that in the vast majority. It means they pay a fee, and you then charge it to private shareholders as a rule. Here I don't know if it's-- I'll say, it's just another thing that's worth thinking about. Most of these stations, as far as I know, are privately owned, which of course is nothing wrong. It is wrong to automatically ensure that the law does not provide certain precise criteria that this solution does not bring about for them to receive part of the funds. And that's the wrong thing to do, and everyone will be able to tell you that. Finally, Mr Horvat will also be able to tell you that it is not possible to share public money without criteria and adequate legal basis as you say, to someone who is registered here to carry out this media activity. That is, I will say, the basic sin of this solution, which is in the media law, and which I propose to delete. Unfortunately, he doesn't talk about it. That's where this sin was committed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the replica, then Mr. Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Part of this, about pouring money into private pockets or into private instead of public institutions, said his colleague Školč. But I'd like to say the following again. Comrade Kontič, I respect you, you are a good Member and, as far as I know, also the mayor; and you are also a good person as far as making amendments and understanding are concerned. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, look! Article 14 on the financing of RTV Slovenia says: "The funds collected by the contribution," that is, 3%, which is also now likely to be included, "are used to create, prepare, broadcast and disseminate RTV Slovenia programmes and to maintain and operate the broadcasting network necessary for the broadcasting and distribution of local non-commercial stations." That's all right. These funds will probably be under the control of the world of RTV and other things that define the financing of this public institution, RTV Slovenia. On the other hand, what we decide, and what we judge whether it is right or wrong, is the third paragraph of this Article, which speaks of financing. This is, "a part of national programmes is financed from the state budget, part of the RTV Slovenia programmes for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for expatriates and residents, and for foreign public, part of the costs for the construction, maintenance and operation of the network for the broadcasting and distribution of RTV Slovenia programmes and local non-commercial stations and individual projects of cultural, scientific and general educational importance proposed by the competent ministries". So, over this part of the budget, as far as I know, be the government, be our ministry, and this politician we set here in the National Assembly - the volume of funds, and they also have to tell us what we gave these funds for. That is why it seems more unwise to me, and it would probably also be in accordance with the legislation, if all these things were to be hung on this, it is said, to the state budget, but not that we have these things, and that the amendment's proposer himself is somehow punished in that they gave 3% a year - so they did not give "up to 3%", but they have precisely set the ceiling, as much money as will be collected from this, for this purpose, while what the School has said about the structure of the use of this money, the legality of the use of this money, the control and all others, and this amendment is not wise at this point in time to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I don't want to put the debate back on the media bill, but I do. 4. Article 4 of the Media Act, which provides for a fund to promote precisely the content of this talk, is adopted and 300 million budget money is foreseen, according to our assessment, for the co-financing of some local and regional programmes that are of wider importance - but I do not think in a wider country, but, say, cultural, educational and so on. This money is secured by the media law. And the mechanisms for the distribution of this money are also clearly defined. So that the debate, or that part of the debate, which is somehow talking about the threat of local and regional stations, I think it actually has this mistake, that it seems to the State or in this case to the proposer and, of course, to the national assembly which has adopted the media law, after all, totally care about these local and regional stations. I think that the National Assembly has shown, and, of course, we as proposing that we do not care and that we are aware of some of the problems that are in these stations. Allow me to just some more about the technical shortcomings of this amendment. I didn't define myself on purpose. In addition to those already mentioned by the Members, I could find at least five more, six immediately and tell you where the problem of such an amendment is if it were accepted. The problem is that this amendment, even if you somehow correct and supplement it in the third reading, is very difficult to implement with about the content written here. Even if it's technically repaired, and it gets confused out, like, a broadcasting agency that doesn't even exist, and stuff like that. So I did not purposely define this because we insist from the media law forward that this is not the right way or the right way to encourage and maintain these local and regional radio and television stations and, of course, to co-finance some of the content they are spreading. We have the impression, not only from this debate today, but also from the previous ones, that there have been a lot of comments on RTV's account in recent years, even on account of the fact that part of RTV's leadership has in recent years been quite a bit of an attitude towards local communities and to some other problems quite arrogantly, but I do not think that the reaction to this is the right way to try to solve things. The 300 or 400 million, as far as these percentages go, of course this matter or this money can't put RTV on its feet or completely bring it down. But I would like to point out that according to last year's RTV, it's said that it's 1 billion 400 plus -- these are the numbers we're talking about. In fact, it's 2 billion minus. And today no one is there, including the new director of RTV, who would hope to speak authoritatively about what the real balance sheet of RTV is and how much RTV is really in plus or minus, or wherever it is financially. Of course, we have a supervisory board, we have a number of other bodies, which apparently do not perform this function well enough. For these reasons, too, we are committed to introducing new amendments to the RTV law in autumn, where some things need to be carefully thought out and thoroughly ventilated and prepared to be less dissatisfied in the future with this institution and the functioning of the institution or to operate in a more stable and, say, normal environment. So we don't stand for nothing to change on RTV. On the contrary! We advocate that many things change. However, I hope to say that RTV gives: for the first time, very large and second time, a very important and sensitive system that does not point to the nose of some things to change, even if, of course, by substantive intensity, we very much agree with them. I would therefore point out once again: we do not object to the State helping to maintain or help to operate local and regional radio and television stations, but we already have enough basics in the media law. We do not object to any change in RTV, we think that there is a lot to be changed, but that there is a need to think carefully about it, but we strongly oppose any direction that we are also going to make changes in such a way that we take RTV as a backup budget to solve some other problems or some other problems that have just accumulated. Then I think some other path is significantly better than this. If we're going to take this path or if you're going to take this path, you have to realize that tomorrow you're going to have a very, very long snake and a long variety of those who, after an analogy of the content of this adopted amendment, would knock on the door of the RTV contribution and then obviously not an RTV contribution, but a new crowd where many will try to prepare their bowl. But we don't think this is the right way to solve, of course, all of them, including the other problems they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All I'm saying to the secretary is that when we talked about the director of RTV a few months ago, we heard that RTV actually has 300 million plus. Today you say: 2 billion minus. Yes, for God's sake, what is it? Three billion! Do you know what 3 billion means to local communities? Let us give these 3 billion to these small RTV or TV stations and radio stations in Slovenia. If they're so neglectful, no one even knows how much this loss or profit is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr Zorko, I think that in this part you have, of course, exceeded the scope that we are currently considering, this is an amendment and a replication and debate that could now open up about this work, I think that they are unproductive, unnecessary and are also not in line with the rules of procedure which dictates how we behave in the second reading when dealing with individual amendments. Allow me to make an assessment that I believe both the positive and negative aspects of this amendment have been presented. She has agreed to the floor half an hour ago, Mrs Tina Bitenc, and I think that this could be a contribution that should help the quality of the decision below. Mr. Kavticnik, would you like to ask Mrs. Tina Bitenc a question? Then I'd ask her to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I didn't want to replicate it to the Secretary of State. So, a lot of arguments have been made for and against this amendment. You have also warned your colleagues about the many shortcomings of this amendment. However, I am interested, Mrs Bitenčeva: given that the amendment was adopted in the media law. If this amendment is not now adopted, will the media law need to be reopened? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the substantive framework on which the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia is adopted. Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national interest, which performs public service in the field of radio and television activities. This public service is defined, as specified in Article 3, first paragraph: "The public service under this law includes the creation, preparation and broadcasting of two national TV programmes, three national radio programmes, one radio or television programme for the Italian or Hungarian national community, radio or television programmes for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, radio and television programmes for the foreign public, radio and television programmes of regional centres in Cyprus and Maribor." All of this is the content of the public service. For these programmes, which are hereinafter referred to as RTV Slovenia - that is to say, as we speak of RTV Slovenia, we are talking about public service - the following paragraph prescribed in some sense mandatory content, quality, level, etc. In fact, in the following paragraph it is mandatory to provide that information should also take place on the events and representations of the interests of the provinces and on the programmes of the national communities and on the programmes of the national minority and be provided through certain units and through certain local programmes that are named by name. This is the content framework supported by funding. That is why, in fact, if we change funding, we are in systemic disharmony with the substantive framework, which is what it is. I'm not saying anything about whether he's good or bad, whether he's comprehensive or out of date, but right now he is. In addition, I would point out that, in the past, there was a subscription in the law, which later turned into a contribution which, according to its legal content, was even more connected to the public service. For it represents a measure for a service from its frame. Just as we have to pay a contribution to health insurance, and if we do not pay it, we are not entitled to the services of this system at all. From this point of view, the law has fixed the amount of this contribution as a public benefit, I stress, in the law itself, and in the tax procedure law we have laid down a specific procedure for collecting this public benefit. From this point of view, of course, we can no longer say that we can do what we can with this public giving either because we have to move within the system framework for which it is intended. This is the first thing I wanted to point out a little bit more, and that's probably what you all know about in the debate on the media law. As for this amendment, which was the question, I'll say so. This amendment, I have already mentioned in the introduction, introduces an additional confusion into the funding system for local communities as well. I agree with all the conclusions on non-consistence, where there are legal disputes, and probably a few more. I think that even if this amendment is accepted or not accepted, certain issues raised by the media law are not resolved. So from this point of view, I will say, this amendment does not help to resolve those issues that the media law has left unresolved. As I said, on the contrary: I think the funding system in these intertwining areas is further blurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate on the amendment to Article 5. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 25 votes to 20. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Mr. Azhitch, a procedural proposal? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	I don't think I had a bad card in my hand, and I don't think the voter key got caught. This can be verified on the record, but I am sure it is, so I propose re-voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	Mr Ašić's proposal to repeat the vote, I take it that after the examination of the magnetogram, it has been found that Mr Ašić has neither been reported nor voted. [[...]] Mr Ašić's proposal to repeat the vote is put to the vote. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 41 votes against 15. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that Mr Auschwitz's procedural proposal to repeat the vote on the amendment to Article 5 has been adopted. We therefore repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 30. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still have to vote on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 33, against 17. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 5a. Although two amendments have been tabled, they have the same content; the proposed amendment is a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party and the proposed amendment with the same content is a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Rudolf Mohet. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments for the new Article 5b or under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the Social Democratic Party's Group for a new Article 5a, of which the Committee is the proposer. The government opposes this amendment. Under 2 is the basic amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The amendment's government opposes. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Although I agree in principle, as I have already said in my defense or in my explanation of the parliamentary position, we are also interfering with those, I will say, irregularly, necessary with the media law, harmonisation of the article. But still [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	Please, fellow Members and colleagues, for the necessary attention, or at least peace, so that the Member State may present its opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	However, if the proposer explains to me whether there has been a lapsus or a variety of interpretations, I am talking about the second amendment, which assumes that a member of the Slovenian Broadcasting Board should not be a closer family member of RTV Slovenia's leading workers. At the same time, it should not be possible to contract with immediate family members. I continue to say that this applies to members of the RTV Slovenia Council. In short, the question for the proposer is: How can this be done in practice? But isn't such an offer a little too strict? And the work of other worlds is not so consistent. In fact, in that case, a closer family member should not strictly conclude a single contract, even if it was, I will say, holding a microphone or simply synchronizing a cartoon, which does not mean a great deal of intervention or a great lobbyist work, which is supposed to happen here in the background. Let's let it go. It's still workable. The other thing I'm kind of surprised about, and I don't know how to vote, but that's it. The amendment states that, during the duration of the mandate of the members of the RTV Council, Slovenia must not employ or conclude a cooperation agreement with the immediate family members, except for those who achieve higher average results in the field of activities carried out by RTV Slovenia. Of course, it is understandable that the above average results can also include exceptional co-workers here, which means, let's say, a remarkable intellectual, copyright or any contribution to the creation of the programme. But it is those who achieve extraordinary results that can then have greater aspirations for influence, after gaining a job or contractual ties more. I'll give you an example. A man who writes scenarios for the house and has extraordinary achievements will, of course, be able to operate within such a world at the expense of these extraordinary achievements much more under the influence of interests than not. I would like to ask for an explanation so that I can decide more easily on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. So, I'm going to answer Mrs. Shirci for a moment. I understand the intent of her question, but let me go in a row. I don't think I'm gonna hold you to that word when you give it as an example, and I understand the point, holding the microphone. Perhaps this is a very good example, because of such a way of thinking about holding the microphone, Mr Christmas has previously asked the question that we do not really know what the RTV balance sheet is, whether they have a billion profits or 2 billion losses. And it is because of such relations and such relations as we have clearly described regarding family ties that we may not know what the balance is. I'm not saying it's true, but we've heard it in this room. That's all I'm referring to. I'm not saying that's true. Nor is it that there are billions or close to a billion positive jobs, we have read this in the public media so that it can be 2 billion minus, but today we have heard it. I don't take a word for it. I'm just saying what we heard. This is the first and therefore such a doctrine is good, necessary, perhaps even necessary. As far as this other question is concerned. Then why did they allow an exception? We think that's probably normal. And if it seems abnormal for you to make exceptions, then why does the whole article not seem abnormal to you, but when it imposes certain restrictions; if that exception already seems so great to you that there can be manipulation, yes, but only then, if there were no such restrictions. That is to say, Mrs Shirca, you have yourself caught up in a word loop somewhere, but I understand what you wanted to ask with this, but I think it has explained more than eloquently if these my explanations relate only to what we have heard here today in this Chamber about the financial business of RTV and, of course, everything else that we may have heard in the debate. There is hardly anything else I can tell you, because the situation is more clear and apparent than the other colleagues have already described in this debate that we have had today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. It's been a long time. I'm obliged to ask who wants the replica. Mrs Silva Montenegro has first responded to a replica for the implementation of H to whom? [[...]] To Mrs Majdi Shirca, then Mr Anderlich and then Mrs Shirca. Mrs. Nigga, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I wonder if there is still ambiguity in these narrow family members, I think, which are the immediate family members, because we know that Slovenian legislation in the field laws defines what a closer family member is, I am talking about family law. One legislation is linked to another. If something like this is proposed, then it should be defined exactly which family members are, because it is difficult to prove in some way that Majda Shirca is not my cousin or that we are not cousins. Likewise, it is even more difficult to determine the above-average results of these immediate family members. Are there any criteria and criteria for how these above-average results will be identified? Since this amendment is so designed, it will trigger further uncertainties and additional gaps and conflict situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	I agree with the intention of this amendment, and I also intend to support it if the applicants correct the first paragraph by deleting it in the second sentence 'except for those who achieve above average results, etc. "because this is not definitive, there are no criteria, therefore of course it is not possible to determine this. However, in order to make this restriction, or this strict and restrictive ban, it is absolutely necessary for me if, after all, it is legal that members of the National Assembly should not run at all - which I think is constitutionally disputed that you should not run. For, of course, the Constitution says that everyone has the right, under the same conditions, to run, but of course when he is appointed to a place, the question of compatibility of functions - and this has nothing to do with it. Even more so for those who have the direct benefit of such membership and cooperation with the world, or with RTV, with the public institution as such. I don't think it's a question of how to define immediate family members, because the concept of a smaller family member is defined and I think that's clear. So in fact, I suggest that the proposers consider if this amendment can be corrected in a way that I think would be clearer and more transparent. In fact, he wrote it down in a different way. But if we just delete this in the last line of the first paragraph "except for those who achieve above average results", it seems to me that the matter would be consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, Mr. Anderlich, if you'll excuse me. Under one is the amendment to the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, whose proposer is the Committee. And if the amendment is adopted under 1 the second paragraph of the basic amendment, the drafter of which is the LDS parliamentary group, is deleted and remains only the first paragraph and, it is said, this second paragraph, with over-average results and cooperation with the immediate family members. These concerns in this case are dismissed. The word was wanted by Mr. Petan, please. [[...]] Replica, Mrs. Majda Shirtz. Mr. Mogue? Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. If we vote for the first amendment, then we will remove, for my opinion, the anomaly of the second amendment. So she could just base it. The first amendment speaks of cutting off the last part or sentence of your amendment. Why? I'll give you a case. In the world of RTV Slovenia are members of various civil society movements or groups. Let's say he's in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Dear colleagues! Indeed, it is very difficult to carry out your discussion because you do not hear your thoughts in our hall anymore. By politely asking you to do this discreetly if you have anything to say to anyone, not to the detriment of the debater. I'm asking for peace. Here you go, Mrs. Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'd just like to give a plastic warning about what happens to this form of amendment. Let's say the Slovenian Writers Association of Dramatic Artists of Slovenia has its representative in the world of RTV Slovenia. This member, such as a playwright, must never perform on television. That means he can never make a deal with television, even if it's a matter of, I'll say, one score of a book for a fee of 5,000 SIT. On the other hand, the company of Slovenian film workers also has its own representative in the world, which is an eminent or well-known director who can, because it has over-average results and directs work for a value of 1 million or 1.5 million or 2 million SITs, as much as it can be a fee for a feature-length film under the rules; this has the option of having some over-average results to participate in such a world. In short, things are contradictory. That is why I propose and at the same time respond to your incomplete reply, with the proposal to support only Article 1, the first amendment, where we shorten the text of the second amendment only to the marriage of family members or workers who have the right to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The Committee supported the amendment of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group with this condition, of course, to submit its own amendment to this amendment, and this amendment to the amendment has just deleted the text of the second sentence of the first paragraph, which is now under discussion. The question is as follows - I am telling the motioners - if you are going to change this amendment and delete only part of the second sentence of paragraph 1, then it seems that such an amendment is acceptable for Members as well, and if you delete it, then those who have suggested it should vote against the amendment of the committee to delete it. Which means that the Committee has made a great deal of restraint, and the Members say that, nevertheless, some of the provisions of this sentence, which would be deleted, are very good, and it would probably be good for the Social Democratic Party to listen to this advice and change its amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	So, we agree with this what Mr Anderlich has proposed and now Mr Moge, but we have already talked to your colleagues here before to agree with this, and we are already preparing a first dictatorship. In the meantime, allow me, Mrs. Shirca, but this is not a controversy with you, nor is it a replica to say the following. I would say that I agree with you, as you said, if there are representatives of these and these associations in the world. That's why we just put that other paragraph in there. I mean, I don't know, I think either we don't get along or you just got caught up in this loop, which I told you before. But let's just let it go. It doesn't matter now. This was not a replica; perhaps we should comment a little more on this ourselves, which I also suggest we do. We now agree with this proposal and are preparing it. As soon as the physical matter is operational, it'll be on the tables. However, if you agree to that, we can vote on that. However, it will be given in writing, just as Mr Anderlič suggested: for "family members" the dot, from "except...", is deleted until the end of the sentence. That's what the amendment's gonna look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A respected choir! I would like to draw attention only to what I have pointed out orally on the committee that the first part of the second sentence is also at issue in the work. In view of how we will resolve the situation, it will also be an impossibility if some of them are already employed on RTV. The Constitution does, however, guarantee freedom of employment, matters may not be linked and however, it is necessary to consider what else can be done in the third reading if such a dictatorship does not go beyond even the constitutional framework, as far as freedom of employment is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. First Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	It is unfortunate, but I ask Mrs Bitenčev whether the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs will initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law on RTV, which speaks of the fact that members of the National Assembly are not allowed to run for leadership functions on RTV. Every Sunday after lunch, I listen to Members not being allowed to run, and I think that everyone has the right to run after the constitution. Of course, if he is elected to a position, which means that at that point his mandate as a Member falls. I mean, of course, in this case, it's just a matter of making a decision. If he is already employed, because he can't interfere with the law back, there is no retroactivity, at least I am firmly convinced of it, and obviously it does not apply to those, but it will apply to all those who will re-enter this relationship. That's what I think, but there's nothing wrong, and I expect the secretariat to help clear this up until the third reading. Intension, however, seems to me perfectly clear and, above all, justifiable, that those who, even in other matters, have the advantage of being members of some authorities, cannot only earn the income from this title, nor can their family members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Well, since Mr. Anderlich has already said something, I'll be shorter. I don't think there's any fear of getting back, because the laws are retroactive. So far they have not been in force with us, and I hope that there will probably not be in the future. That's one. Second. If this is also disputed that we accept such an amendment, we still have the opportunity to correct it, to supplement it, to prepare such a text that is acceptable to all and does not give rise to any doubts. The important thing is that we reach into this amendment so that we can fix it in the third place. I don't think there's any of these fears. I don't know why you'd see fears where they don't exist. I think that most of us have already agreed on this; we just have to vote on it. But I can't see the fear behind me because it can't be retroactive and it can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it any more, I would ask, insofar as I have reached the right conclusion, the proposers of this amendment. A parliamentary group is preparing to amend the text of this amendment. Amendments to the text of the amendment may be tabled by the proposer before the end of the consideration of the article to be amended. Therefore, I ask you whether you want - but Members must be given a written stay on the bench - because otherwise we cannot continue our work. If you want the amended amendment to be decided, then we'll have to suspend the session for, I don't know how long you're proposing. Five minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	So 10 minutes to reproduce and get on the bench. We're moving on to work in 10 minutes, which means 12.45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	We continue with the adjourned session. The amendment, referred to in number 2, of which the proposed Social Democratic Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group is currently being divided, is being corrected. During this time, we will determine the presence. Please make sure that the neighbors who are not present do not accidentally have their card inserted. Thank you very much. We're detecting a presence. There are 62 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We have before us, under order number 1, an amendment to the new Article 5b, an amendment to the SDS amendment to the new Article 5a of the SDS Group, of which the Committee is the proposer, and thus an amendment to the amendment is proposed to delete the second sentence of the first paragraph. If this amendment is adopted, the correction now proposed by the SDS Group of Members concerning the second paragraph of the basic amendment of the Group of Members will be irrelevant - second sentence, not paragraph. So once again: if we vote on the amendment, the correction we have before us, for the second sentence, is irrelevant. So we're moving to Want to explain the amended amendment, Mr. Petan? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Well, I'd explain the other thing, including the explanation of the voice. Given that we had agreed on a text somewhere before, I felt that this would have the majority support. That is why I would now appeal to Members and Members to reject this first amendment to the amendment, not to give our consent, and then to confirm this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. They voted 2 to 45. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the amendment to amendment number one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amended amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amended amendment under number 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment for a new Article 5c, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; the government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body supports it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment for the new Article 5c has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment for a new Article 5d, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. His government opposes him, his mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments for the new Article 5th, with the note that the amendment under one of which is proposed by Leopold Kremjar is irrelevant, as it is not tabled within the time limit. I am therefore opening the debate on the amendment mentioned under two and three. The amendment is proposed by the Committee under two, and the amendment under three is proposed by the SDS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Mr Tone Anderlich came forward first, then Mr Leopold Kremjar and then Mr Barovic. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	I ask the government representative to explain this opposition, because I do not know what the arguments are to oppose this amendment of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Here you go, government representative!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. So, in the positions that the government has sent to the National Assembly at the time of the second reading, we have quite clearly defined that we are taking the majority of the initiatives that have been put forward. It is precisely the debate on the previous amendment or amendment on these cross-border prohibitions of employment, contract making, etc. However, it has pointed to all of these amendments, and the debate has already shown on the Committee that, of course, many of the amendments that have been proposed have been proposed, otherwise proposed with a positive desire to change the way in which national radio and television are working and decision-making, but in many things with inconsistent text. Mrs Bitenchev also kept reminding about some of these problems, both on the Committee and today in the National Assembly. For these reasons, the government believes that it would be better if we took some time and prepared these texts very carefully, of course, together with all legal and judicial experts, so as not to get involved in some sort of trap and, in fact, with positive or good intentions, sometimes make a mistake. This is the only reason the government opposes these things. There are too many unsettling things in some things, and there are no substantive reasons for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. So I respect the wishes of the Government or the representative, the Secretary of State, in full. Of course, I can't accept it in this part. Firstly, this matter is not misplaced when we talk about this amendment and leaves no possibility of such or different interpretations. It's a simple matter. The law was amended last year and the consent previously recorded was amended to the opinion. Opinion is a moral category that commits to morality. The law has been tested in practice. In practice, the test showed that this established the opinion 'adequate' and that it produced the wrong results. I think that, unfortunately, it had to be done that the law should be tested in practice and that this was determined by tests in practice, but given that this has already been done, now the government or the law-makers and we who decide on this matter have not only the conduct and opinion of what would have been, but we have a precise conclusion, "what was because it was?" And this, 'because it was', shows that probably - I am deeply convinced of this opinion myself - is not sufficient, because of course it is morally binding, because it is clearly not something that the applicants are giving to this moral obligation, because they are not trying to do anything or to explain further why they are opposed and why they insist on the proposal, regardless of whether the collective opinion is negative. So I don't see any reason here. Similarly, the government claims, and representatives have said this several times before that they are substantively in agreement with and support for such a solution. Given that we have already heard representatives of the parliamentary groups -- at least those who have spoken -- all supported such a solution, I think, of course, that we also have the express consent of the press society, that we have the express consent of the press union on RTV -- that it is a matter of thought and that it is a matter that is sufficiently well completed and does not need, in my opinion, any more time to be built in. If this is the case - and I am sure that, and I hope that - it will be incorporated into the law, it will only make it easier for the proposers of the new proposal of the law to be less involved in this area in the autumn, and so will we. I think it's very important. Look, maybe two more, three words to confirm that. Even where the owner is very well known, in radio and television houses around the world - from many conversations we have had with people in the past - the owner who can finally be appointed as the responsible editor he wants to be used to verify the opinion of the people who will work with the future program manager - is simply because he wants to have a good product. And a good product can only be when the matter is, I'll say, in a kind of consonant and in some kind of agreement. It is impossible in intellectual professions, especially in intellectual professions, to force someone to work well and motivatedly; this cannot be done. To force him to go to work, to force him to stamp a card, to work intellectually well and usefully, of course, cannot be done. This also calls for consideration to be given to the views of the people who will be led by this editor in some work process. And that's why he's also the owner, in which case he's the country, the one who needs to be interested in making that noise. And the third thing about that. Members of the RTV Council still have a final say after this proposal, which is also correct. With this difference, when there is a disagreement or disagreement between the applicant and the employees of the press, the programme work of the collective, the Council must discuss both. This is all this proposal wants to discuss both and the world can still decide after a thorough debate - I think that these discussions will be thorough, even more reasoned - can decide to support the proposal of the proposer, which is contrary to the collective position. You can make up your mind, but it's the right way, in my opinion. I would therefore suggest that, however, such an amendment as has been tabled and approved by the Committee, we accept it and, at this point, remove certain anomalies that have already taken place in the implementation of the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Since it's 1:00 p.m., I ask you politely, as long as you agree we're done because we're at the last amendment. But with the second reading, I think we could close very quickly, as far as you have? [[...]] I think there's only one amendment left, and I think it's a few minutes, and we could be done. If you agree, unless you have other obligations at this time? You agree, don't you? Everyone's nodding, except Mr. Potch, you're saying no?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	I've got one with one group coming to see us for an interview. Well, if it was just a minute, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Okay. I'll hang up. We'll pick it up at 2.30. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	Ladies and gentlemen! Can I ask you if you can see if the cards are in the right places? Some of them must be in there, some outside, if I'm right. Can we check the presence, please? Ladies and gentlemen, I find 49 Members and Members present. So we are final, and we can proceed with the meeting. Additional reasons for the continuation of the 6th session are Mr Vila Trofenik from 16.30 p.m., Mr Andrej Gerenčer for the start of the afternoon session, Mr Roman Jakič for the start of the afternoon session, Mr Bojan Kontic from 17:00 p.m. onwards. Before the noon break, we stayed at Article 5th. Now we're back to 45. Where Article 5a is applicable. And here we have two amendments. the application stopped at the second or third amendments. Then we have another amendment for Article 7a, and that's probably all. I'm guessing we're not done yet. I ask Members and Members of Parliament to stay close to the Chamber to help us reach our conclusion. I'd like to ask if you could see if the cards are in, because now we've counted here and found out that there are 45 of us. There's 45, 47 of us in the hall, but there's 43 of us. Please see if your cards are put correctly. Now we're back to 46, so we can move on. Who wants to discuss the amendments under Article 5. Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I signed up for a brief discussion from the very beginning. I would like to point out that in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the supplement we are talking about is very important, even after the content, because it allows journalists at least one institution, one tool for co-proposal, especially when they have the opportunity to propose their candidate for responsible editor if the candidate proposed by the Director-General does not have support. Therefore, we will definitely support this supplement in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? No one else. We can cross please, Mr. Anderlich! [[...]] I'm sorry, they didn't tell me about this. Please, Mr. Anderlich, and then Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	I am sure that that part of the discussions and expectations that spoke of a mistake being made when we were amending the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and we deleted our consent to the appointment that it was a mistake, that it was a mistake, that it was a mistake, etc. I am firmly convinced that this was the only right thing to do and that it was the right thing to do. Nowhere, when we were then studying this, anywhere in any country in such organizations, institutions, in whatever way they were called to do their work, did we find a consensus institute. Because it is logical and clear that the founder, through his own authority, is responsible for ensuring that the selection of editors, directors or whatever their names are, on the one hand, ensures quality, expertise and on the other, of course that he will also be an acceptable candidate or candidate for the collective. Now there has been some incomprehensible appointment in Maribor in this period, and I do not really understand that a director can be so incomprehensible, so that he goes beyond opinion or at least that he does not try to talk about why collective objections exist, why the opinion is negative, and that we are now in a situation where even the institution of consent has been proposed. The compromise proposed here will be supported, although I say that so far we have not found the consent of the Institute as one that would be effective in the management of any public institution. Years ago, there were proposals, both by the public service of Radio Television Slovenia and some others, that it would be right for the Institute of Consent to withdraw from the law. We have taken a step, of course, back to what was before the time, so that in the second phase, let's say, the possibility of identifying ourselves to co-proposal or that they could be employed co-proposers, and I think that's the right thing to do. However, I came to the debate mainly to clarify that this was not a mistake and that indeed such an arrangement, where consent would be compulsory in such a case, was nowhere to be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. When the Committee discussed this supplement proposed by its colleague Kremjar, it did not agree to give consent. However, he has taken over as his complement this second supplement, which we are discussing here today. It seems to me that the supplement adopted has been adopted on the basis of historical facts that have taken place in the past in the appointment of these editors. I will tell you that the committee has also received a letter or statement on the day of the Radio Maribor and at the time of the appointment of the responsible editor, signed by all regularly employed journalists of Radio Maribor. If you don't mind, I'd like to quote you as an intermediate paragraph, which is the one that reflects the grain of truth, on the basis of which the members of the committee voted to be the amendment of the committee. It reads as follows: "Now we have nothing but another warning of the harmfulness of withdrawing the consent of the press community to appoint responsible editors. We are convinced that the collective's consent was to protect autonomous journalism from political intervention. An opinion that no one takes into account cannot be a substitute for it. We ask ourselves where those sweet words of comfort are from Members and the enthusiastic advocates to take the mandatory consent that none of the reasonable in the country will be able to be reasoned on by the press. We are also wondering what the director of RTV Slovenia has to do with his own violation of the prescribed procedures as an honest act, while the other side is on the contrary, while he is silent on all of it. We are also wondering how members of the RTV Slovenia Council may have skipped clear warnings of violations of the rules adopted by them. We also wonder whether the residential organisation of the Slovenian Society of Journalists can remain undecided to the problem of colleagues on TV Slovenia yesterday," we know what this is about, "then in Vecer and today on Maribor's radio." This passage has somehow taken back what the Members have also stressed in the debate, while also approving that this is an amendment to the Committee. Therefore, I ask you to support this addition to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Brenčič, then Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	I'm sorry you didn't tell me. Is this a replica or a debate? [[It's a debate.]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	However, I certainly will not support this amendment, as I did not support, that workers in the editorial profession can determine for themselves the chairman for the issue of consent. This is a consensus that is slightly different, but nowhere in the world and in practice cannot be that workers elect their own forerunner. That's what it means, my boss, you're just gonna do what I think is right, or you're not gonna do it. The rules of economic order or market order also go into the field of governance and this is at odds with the logic of the relations between workers and forerunners. And I'm sure I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Replica, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Of course, I respect and really respect the opposite opinions, especially if they are reasoned and I am afraid, I repeat to Mr Brenčič that Mr Brenčič has not read this amendment accurately enough. And, of course, I'd ask him if he did. The amendment speaks very precisely, it is not a matter of any agreement, I have to say again here, do not talk about consensus and do not prejudge the possibility that the collective itself chooses someone. The amendment only refers to the fact that where there is no equal opinion, that is, where the proposer who has to obtain an opinion under the existing law is, of course, different; in this case, the Council, which decides at the final stage, must deal with both matters. Deal with it. The world can still choose either variant A or variant B. But not like now, because it doesn't have to, because no one has to say anything. Kerveste, when she was a colleague of Bebler's -- I think she was in that debate in her previous term -- talked about no one reasonable would do that. I am afraid, of course, that in practice, so I say that this matter is being implemented in practice. We have this happening. And, of course, everyone, I, too, think that there is enough morality and moral sanctions for morally sensitive people who are aware of the responsibilities of moral sanctions. That's enough, but unfortunately the practice tells us otherwise. I also think that we should not adjust the legislation - I know that no one thinks so - to adapt to some of the individual cases that are happening. And it would be wrong. Because then, in each appointment, we should probably amend the legislation. No, but the thing is that some model - and I was also saying this in the morning-tested in practice. And this practice shows that this model is not good enough, at least by my assessment and apparently by people who support it, too. That's why it's going. So it's not about consent, it's not about consent, it's not about the right to veto the work of the collective, it's not about that, and it's not about people putting themselves in charge. Not at all. It's just that they have a chance to say: we don't think it's the right one. So, gentlemen in the world who decide on this, let us discuss our proposal, that's all it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Is that a replica, Mr. Brenčič? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look. We can talk about it long and wide. We could call it "breathing candy." But the fact is that with this amendment we described consent, but in substance it would be quite simple, it could have been written otherwise: "with the consent of the workers in the editorial department." You don't have to, look, five sentences, it's all said, just to describe. But the purpose is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Excuse me, Mr. Kremjar, do you think it is necessary to explain, given that the matter is very clear? Thank you very much, Mr. Kremjar. Mrs. Shirca, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to point out another amendment to Article 5.b. The amendment has not been considered on the Committee, which is why I would also like to draw attention to it. Given that we have actually gone beyond what the government has wanted, and perhaps given that the appointment of a new or other Director-General or Director-General of the Public Service will not be present for some time and that we will obviously get a new law earlier. However, the last amendment also introduces the right or adds a public vote, but for the Director-General of TV, while in the morning we adopted a public vote for the appointment of the President of the Council of RTV Slovenia, it is said, the autonomous body that runs the world of RTV Slovenia or the public institution of RTV Slovenia. Otherwise, it is up to you to determine whether to support or not to support it remains open. But I think there has been one mistake or mistake when an amendment has been tabled to a public vote for the President of the Council, and this amendment adds the right to a public vote for the appointment of a director, which could otherwise be regulated in the Statute, but there is nothing wrong with the law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you. Who wants another word? [[No one else.]] Can we get to the vote? Thank you. I conclude the debate and move to a vote on both amendments by Article 5, starting with the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting please. Of the 51 present, 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the new Article 5a has been adopted. Now we have an amendment under order number three - that's for a new 5d article, if you found it. We vote on this amendment. Let's vote please. Of the 52 present, 40, 4 votes. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that this amendment for the new Article 5d has been adopted. We're moving on to another amendment that we have in the extra material. This is the material where Mrs. Majda Shirca was first signed. That's for a new 9.a. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Mrs. Shirca, please. Can I please have some ear?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. This proposed amendment would, in my understanding, harmonise the media law in such a way as to satisfy some of the intentions of the public institution or to cover public interest in the context of RTV Slovenia. With this amendment, I will say, delete or withdraw the provision adopted at the third reading of the media law, which is actually supported by the government. That's why I'm assuming you'd listen to this amendment, too. This would, in fact, harmonise the standards enshrined in the law on RTV Slovenia and break, for my understanding, the constitutional disputed situation. However, I must remind you of something else that may have been under-exposed today. By voting in the media law on intervention in certain dedicated means for the operation of precisely defined public interest tasks, the public RTV house, we have, in fact, chosen double ratings for regional, local, non-profit, student, in short, all those publishers that would operate on a non-commercial, non-profit basis. Because the media law, if we look at it as a whole, gives a lot of credit, but rights, which are also due to certain requirements. This is said to be a slightly lower share, it is said, of a 15% share of advertising in these media, as well as a few more of its own content or the content of European province. But that's why they got some layoffs. These are the ones that mean that radio and television programmes are broadcast free of charge, so it is not necessary for the public good, which frequencies are, of course, significantly higher abroad than in Slovenia, where they are of low value, in short, would be broadcast free of charge or would have been, as of the date of the entry into force of the media law. The fees and frequencies are also significantly lower for these, but they also have a reduced rate, we said, up to 20% of the reduced level of contributions that they have to pay for copyrights, to mention only some and, of course, not to miss the fact that they will have a sure priority in participating in the funds provided by the Audiovisual Media Fund, especially because the consequences imposed by the European Directives will also be eliminated. Today, the Secretary of State has mentioned to us that these funds will not be small, regardless of the fact that we have not allowed them to be collected as voluntarily as planned, we have not yet fully introduced the fee, but it is some of the funds that will be collected into this fund and to which these media will participate. This has also been the case in practice so far, you just need to know that these funds were extremely small; they were presented at the Ministry of Culture under the special heading 'enrichment of programmes', only for 12 million. However, regional and local radio or television programmes have already been involved in these funds if they have proved to be potential or eligible candidates in the public tender. Certainly, if the media law is implemented correctly and the public fund is guided in the way it was established in the previous month by the media law, then, of course, the media at the local, regional and other levels will be better off there today. For this reason, I appeal, for the first time, that we will not have to send the laws that we are enacting, or that others will not need to be sent to constitutional review, or because of the arguments already mentioned to support an amendment that would regulate an irregularly regulated state of return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I wish - I hope it wasn't too much - I just asked the secretariat for a short assessment of appropriateness or beauty, I would say, such a provision. Whoever monitored the vote knows how I defined myself, and I don't speak for a substantive reason. But, I would say, quite directly, a provision of one law that abolishes articles in another with the law - an assessment I would like to ask, I will not say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Secretary of State. Okay? Please, Mrs. Bitenchev, can you say anything about this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A respected choir! I already told my grade at the beginning. I said that, from the legal system's point of view, we never recommend such an amendment, we never support it, nor did we support those amendments in the media law, which were then adopted. This is what I said at the beginning of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Are you saying we can't enforce provisions in other laws with one law?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	It's not nice, but it's already happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you. Please, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Despite the beautiful error of course, I would have taken this amendment, because the government and I have always warned that in the way that it happened in Article 82, this is not the way to regulate it. At least as far as we're concerned, we'd accept some pretty mistakes. For information, the RTV leadership has already sent to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of these articles covered by this amendment and expect this week the Constitutional Court to discuss whether or not it accepts the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Just an additional explanation. I'm not gonna say the empire's hitting back, not at all. But we have reached out to another law in the media law. We are now interfering with this law back into this same law. Actually, it's a pocho.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, do you have a replica, perhaps? Mr. Yuri, too. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Media Act is a general or so-called roof law. The RTV Act is a special law governing a particular area. Although the media law has indirectly led to a discrepancy with the RTV law. We tried to do this with the amendment today, but we didn't make it. Nevertheless, I would point out what was said at the outset and what the discussers found in the debate on the amendment to Article 5 to be a legal dispute. This amendment is also a matter of law and law. It would be much better for those who think that this amendment needs to be supported, thereby repealing the article of the media law, to propose amending the media law. This I think would be the right path in this national council, not with the amendment to the RTV law to repeal the article of the media law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri. I'd go on from here. I also had my time, although I did not decide on the media law at the time, of course I opposed the amendment tabled by my colleague and my friend Kontič. I support the intent of correction, but I'm sure that's not the way. My colleague Kontic himself warned, the only way is to change the law on the media and not get into any more unconstant and disorderly things, I will reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u133	We are now witnessing an alarming sensitivity to the consistency of the law, mainly by those who have caused the media law to be inconsistent at this very point, which is referred to as Article 82. I would understand if someone else were to shed tears, to interfere in an inappropriate way with the media law. What does this amendment say? This amendment states that the two paragraphs of one article are deleted, and that is a two-paragraph paragraph which is definitely not a part of that media law. I would be judging this law eventually, but under the conditions if the public service were otherwise defined and allowed to carry out these programmes and stations that we are talking about all day. This means that by making a decision that has a technical error, we actually change exactly what Mr Juri wants: the media law. We draw out what we know doesn't belong in there. And it is not the case there, and we have had a lot of discussion about this, and Mr Potrč certainly knows this, that 3% of RTV funds are allocated to the preparation of programme content for local and regional and student radio and television programmes. Secondly, for the construction, maintenance and operation of a transmission network for the transmission of programmes referred to in Articles 77, 79, 80, 81, the funds shall be provided from the State budget. This is something that has been done with the same procedure as is now opposed to it. It came into a marriage that doesn't belong. This morning we spoke again about some things that were completely inconsistent, and that did not disturb anyone. I suppose there will be no great drama if this amendment is not adopted at this time. Of course I'll back him up myself. There will be no drama, because simply the 82nd article of the Media Act is not feasible. It's just not feasible. I expect, however, that if this is not accepted, Mr Juri, Mr Kontič, and Mr Potrč, as well as others who are disturbed by the procedure, that we will jointly introduce a law amending the media law, where we will achieve this same objective, as outlined in the two paragraphs of Article 82. If you would give me this assurance at this point that you are willing to respect to this extent the limits that we set ourselves with the rules of procedure, then it would also make sense for me to stop this decision. However, since I will be told the experience of this mandate and, above all, the last two days that I do not draw, teach anything else, it seems to me that it is necessary to keep on guard so that someone does not exercise any partial interest in the general account even when it is not necessary. So it seems to me that this is one of the ways in which we realize that it would not be necessary if these delicate people at the time did not do what we did wrong in the media law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u134	I guess it's a replica, right? Mr. Skull : The Empire is returning the blow, I think. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca. You said it yourself, I just said it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u135	Only an additional explanation, but the replica is more to Mr Kontić in the form of an explanation. However, the logical conclusions of Mr Kontič and the rules do lead to such a conclusion. Let's fix with regular procedure something that's been wrongly accepted back. But without breaking the rules, let us correct this in a different way. Why are we proposing a different way? Because RTV Slovenia cannot implement it at the moment it has to implement the law. She doesn't know how to calculate these 3%, she doesn't know where to pass them, who, why. There is no specific method of special, very precise calculations. It has not yet organised itself to propose to the government an additional 3% increase in the fee, which will certainly happen if the Constitutional Court does not listen to it and delay the implementation of this Article. This proposal is, I will say, a very rational solution, which solves the situation sooner than we can expect to gain in dealing with the correction of what I assume is practical, after the projection, that it certainly cannot happen in such a short time that it deprives the public institution of the damage it is already causing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to remind you that we are at the 13th point, which reads: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. This amendment has nothing to do with this law. Tell me where he's connected to him. This afternoon we rejected the amendment that regulated something on this subterranean, not now. And a second time. Why are you fighting so hard for RTV? This amendment really doesn't belong in this marriage because Pa talks about another marriage. If not, we will bring another time when we talk about agricultural crops, including amendments that will eliminate the supply of ammunition, for example, in other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, I have to say in my apologies that I had just warned you about that a little earlier. We have found that this is not, as a rule, done and that such practice developed in the Slovenian National Assembly leads to the fact that every time we have the same laws on the agenda and, of course, it is not legal-consistent. However, I have no right to restrict any very large debate on this subject. Of course, I'll ask you not to repeat yourself. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u139	I'd only replicate to my colleague at school so much that I don't give any assurances. However, it will certainly not be difficult for me if the government itself does not propose to amend the media law, even in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court or otherwise, I am prepared to participate in such a law. But this is the only way, not the rule, nor should we change legislation with new laws, special ones, of course, to correct previously adopted roof laws. Or if they're roofies or they're special. Look. Today we have adopted and voted on two final amendments giving opinions to representatives of the boards, in the process of running, the right to also give their candidate as responsible editor. If we adopt tomorrow a possible law on journalism that will destroy this article in one provision, this will change the rules of the game again. It doesn't work together. Colleagues, this is not consistent, and I'm not going to cooperate. That's why I'm going to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I, too, have the assurance to Mr Školč that I will not sign his bill if he prepares it. I said that you can propose a change of law to those who are interested in it, and you can probably do so in the National Assembly. But as for the time constraints, Comrade Shircheva, it's similar. We are now in second reading, which means that the law in third reading will be in about a month, two months, even in autumn, if not faster. At the same time, even if you consider that you have support in the National Assembly, you can amend the Media Act by means of a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u142	We have three more replicas if they're really necessary. Mr. Potts, Mr. Skolč and Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I would like to say to Mr Školč that, of course, I cannot convince him how to think about my future course of action, because this is a matter of his approach. As for the evidence, let's see that I have never voted for the solution adopted in the media law and today. Both times not for substantive reasons, but this time I will not vote for formal reasons. Mr Kontic also knows when we were talking about his amendment that I had this, I would say, luckily that my answer was, what does that mean, almost literally identical to Mrs Bitenchev's reply - that it is not nice and systematic at all, but that it has already happened and that I was also of the opinion that it is not right to submit this amendment. I just don't know if we do it once, if it's wise to work many times. However, I came by mainly because Mr Školč is insinuating, but I do not think he has any reason this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u144	Mr. Skull has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u145	Of course, I'm not insinuating anything, but in some way I'm trying to get that law to be also about the media that we're not talking about today, and from this point of view, I'm just taking into account the comments that were made at the beginning, but we're going after, I'll say, everyone through them, and that's evidence of this whole debate today. All I asked was whether there was any agreement on the content, or whether it was just that there was still some chance of getting rid of that 33%, whatever would come to mind, possibly in the third reading, and in some new marriage proposal. That is why, in the same way, I speak in all these debates and there will be no problems later. It is also quite clear to me that there is no special will in the Consolidated List to jointly table a proposal to amend the Media Act, which would also saturate the government in this matter; perhaps the government will persuade them with its proposal, too, I would like to see it. I did, however, mainly because of the question of Mr Christmas. What he's asking is not true that it has nothing to do with this marriage. It has much to do with this law, because this provision speaks of the funds of the RTV contribution. This is primarily the matter governed by this law we are talking about and less by others. According to the contents, this is the substance of this law, which was violated by another law. Now we all act like it's untouchable. This is also possible, but according to the content this is one of the basic things regulated by this law - it speaks of the funds of the RTV contribution, Mr Bozič. Therefore, it would be very good if the basic law and the amendment that we have signed together were read, and we could see that we are talking about a mother that is originally governed by this law, not someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'm guessing we're going around in circles with these replicas and we've got 19 more agendas ahead of us. So please, if possible, you are very short and innovative. Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u147	Yeah, I can't guarantee you that I'll be innovative, given the criteria you set, I guess I have a different one. However, it is certainly necessary to clarify the incorrect indications. Mr Kontic knows that he was here in the previous term, and Mrs Bitenčev also knows who points out that we have indeed made a contribution by amending the ORTV law two years ago. We fixed it with the RTV Act. You allowed - you allowed, the secretariat for legislation and everyone else, and then you didn't warn them - that this is not regulated in that law, and it is wrong and it is too much of a diversion, what you are doing, Mr Kontic. In that marriage, we did something that just doesn't hold up what you're saying. Go to arrange the media law on a regular basis and delete it in this law. That's not right. You took from the RTV Act part of what we arranged in this law two years ago, when we determined instead of the anti-constitutional subscription for radio and television programs, we arranged a contribution. And it's in this marriage. I expect a government representative to tell you what he thinks. It's simply that we just fix what really happened wrong, it's not that we made a precedent there, and now we can't do another one. We with this law, which is a fundamental contribution to RTV, which provides for collection, which also determines the destination, which of course determines everything that is supposed to happen with this contribution. You've simply squandered it in another marriage, a little bit "scrambled" and now you say, yes, go fix that law, not the one that's native to the matter that we're talking about right now. This is simply not right, it is not sustainable for you to teach us what to do, but we are actually doing what we started two years ago, or before it was instead of a contribution, a subscription that was never questionable in the main purpose and also in height and so on. It was intended for RTV programs of the public institution of RTV Slovenia, and this would also make a contribution. I am firmly convinced that by doing so we are correcting a mistake in the media law if there is any consistency in these matters. We are countless laws, and even so, is the principle of enacting laws, simply stating in transitional provisions which things are not applicable if we are cancelling other things. In this work, I believe this is quite correct and it is incorrect that you are now traveling to another law and that we should arrange it there because this law is not concerned. As far as I'm concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Beatenchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I hope that this is not a misunderstanding, but I would just like to explain that the secretariat of the media law, both at the committee and at the assembly, has always pointed out the non-consistentness and legal contention of such a decision. The Chairman of the Home Committee also kept reminding us of our position and, of course, I cannot accept criticism in this work. Of course, the fact that we now say the principle of the amendment is probably our duty, and I probably also said what the relationship is to that solution in the media law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u151	Mr. Skolcz first. Mr. Skolč, the united list is willing to change the law. As far as voting is concerned, go look at the results of the vote on the contested article in the media law, and let us count. Among them are Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, not only the United Nations. The reading here is completely incorrect and it's back to, I'll say, tampering. The next is: I will personally vote the same in all three cases. First, with the RTV Act, and in that case. I will not support such an amendment that will affect this area or that it will take the resources of RTV. You'll be doing a lot of things differently. That's all I wanted to warn you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Yuri? Nothing more. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I felt a lack or at first I wanted to challenge Mrs Tina Bitenc, secretary of our secretariat, so that I could say a few general legal rules on the relations between laws and so on. I think it would be easier for colleagues who stand so hard behind this amendment to understand what this is all about. I don't speak provocatively, but because I really think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? And Mr. Scholch. Then Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u155	I'd just like to ask Mr. Potts a question. Why, then, was not the implementation of Article 82 of the Media Act carried out in the Media Act, but you supported the solution that you supported in Article 82 of the RTV Act in the second and third paragraphs. If you are so consistent that every time you take things away from the beginning to the end in the same marriage, because this is, I will say, a unique solution, which Mr Kontić and his had also brought back then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u157	Since it was a direct question, although this is not a habit, I have to give an answer. Members and Members voted on the amendment. First, second, third and every time. In the United List and also in the Liberal Democracy, there were different definitions for these controversial amendments or solutions between Members and Members. This, Mr Školč, is all the truth that applies to today. On this so-called controversial amendment, two Members of the United Nations voted in favour of the amendment, the others we were present against, and some LDS members voted in favour of the amendment. Now I don't know why you're questioning or asking me, ask your colleagues, because otherwise what you're doing is not normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u158	Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is not a matter of this national assembly to listen to my explanations of how coalition coordination has been carried out with regard to the provision of additional funds for local and regional radio and television stations. But the fact is, in coalition coordination, I tried to propose an alternative solution. I proposed it, along with some colleagues from liberal democracy, to compensate for 3% of the RTV contribution. This proposal by some colleagues from the United List and the LDS has failed in coalition coordination. With these solutions, which I proposed at that coalition coordination at the time, we would have avoided the whole story in both of these laws, both the Media Act and the OrTV Act. Anyway, we cooked this story ourselves here. If anyone disagrees with the resolution in the media law, let him check it in the Constitutional Court, which is responsible for resolving this dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u160	I again say good-bye to the debaters for interfering with their interest in the debate. This debate did not contribute to clarifying this issue for one millimeter. We're going through the same thing, one you repeat history, one you remember how someone voted, the other you demand. I'm sorry, but the plenary is not meant to do this if you look at the rules of procedure. Please see again what a replica is and then replicate in accordance with the rules of procedure. If there is no replica, I will be forced to stop you and ask you to stop the debate. Forgive me for being so rude to you, but the rules of procedure. Mr. Anderlich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u161	While I expect the Prime Minister to be defined, I am sorry, a representative of the government, for perhaps he will. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] However, I ask Mrs Bitenchev to make it clear that, even with Mr Mohet, the chairman of the committee, we are not united now, because he understands that she has warned that it would be legally unconstitutional for this issue to be settled in this law. [[...]] I have said before that only because of the issue of the contribution did we change the law on RTV and this is a fundamental law for this. I understand that it is legally consistent that, just as a contribution was made two years ago, it is now, if it has been amended by another law, etc., that it is simply returned to the state for the purpose of being laid down by the law we adopted two years ago. Is that legally consistent or not? Mr Moze understood that you claim that this is legally inconsistent, that this law regulates it, and of course I think it is legally consistent. Please state in uniform whether this is the case or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The answer is expected, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have to say the following in principle. The position of the Secretariat is always that only if changes, including the repeal of those laws, the same laws, can be made by amending and supplementing the same laws. From this point of view, it would be legal technical and legal system, due to the transparency of the legal system, to make these changes in the amendments to the media law. It would also be right to make any change in the RTV contribution in the RTV Slovenia Act. I said it was as problematic a decision as it was a difficult decision in the media law. Now I will say so, of course, there are also the abolitions of the crosses of thefts over laws, but the secretariat does not actually support them in favour of the purity and visibility of the legal system. At the outset, I also said that the secretariat, given its position, was actually obliged to say this at this point. Of course, it can also be understood that the Secretariat is aware of the situation in which you are Members, and that even if this amendment is adopted, it will not be the first time that a law has intervened in another law. We have large system laws that have entered into 12, 15 laws, such as the Public Funds Act, and have done a great deal of interference with the legal system. [[A question from the bench.]] Yeah, even in public finances. So from this point of view, we can never recommend it. However, the National Assembly, when it considers it necessary, will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, you have a replica, don't you think?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u165	I only have one question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u166	The question is not a replica. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your word. I'd like to ask the secretariat if I'm thinking correctly. If it's us [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u168	Excuse me, Mr Mogue, but the question is - this is not a public scene where we will ask the secretariat about legal technical matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u169	I want to make up my mind. But as chairman, I'm going to ask you to explain to me whether this thing is systematically okay or not. This is where I put my word, and if you tell me it's okay, I'm not voting for this amendment that I signed myself. Interpretations now go from left to right, and I believe I have the right to ask for a legal system solution or the standard of whether it is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Mogue. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u171	Dear Mrs. Bitenchev, if we have adopted solutions in the Media Act, as was the case with those 3%, and if we have not arranged in this law for 3% of these to be realized if someone raises a dispute in the judicial branch, will that article be annulled or not? Or should I now ask: if, now that we have not accepted the amendment to Article 5, if we have now adopted an amendment signed by a colleague of Shirtz, and this has been adopted and adopted by the National Assembly, this is not the basis for this law, which we are adopting today, to be in so much conflict with the rest of the legislation, that this article, which we are supplementing with this amendment, should be outlined?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u172	I just need to find that what you have said does not fall under any chapter and no article of the Rules of Procedure - it is not a replica, not a debate. We have concluded the debate on this matter. I interrupted Mrs. Shirco earlier when she wanted to ask a question. I believe you wanted to ask something similar, like Mr Moge, or not. I'm sorry, but I expected the case to be glassed in accordance with the rules of procedure. But because it doesn't work, and because I can't take your word away from you that you won't tell me what to do, I'll ask and say good-bye because I took your word from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u173	I posed a question as a replica of the implementation of the Secretary of State because I did not have an answer which is fundamentally lacking: how will the government, which is the guardian of the implementation of the Media Law, and at the same time the institution of the Founding Rights of RTV, on the date of entry into force of the Media Law, be able to ensure that these three percentages, which are now required by the current Media Law, will come into practice to the destinations mentioned here. All I need is this answer because I don't see any operational options for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much. What is enshrined in the Media Act in Article 82 is neither operational nor feasible. You just can't do that. We would probably have reacted earlier to these provisions, but we have also waited for today's debate on the RTV law, because, of course, the RTV law would have made those 3% operational, but it is true that not with such an addition that you have rejected today, but with significantly different ways and a little more extensive intervention in the RTV law. Thus, the law on RTV could in principle legalize what was done in the media law. That's why we waited on purpose. Of course, we will also wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court in the light of the institution's complaint about RTV and then react accordingly. Whether it's going to be a change in the law of the media, or if it's going to be another way, we don't know. But we certainly insist on our position that we are against such a way of dividing the subscription. Of course, we must take your will into account in this course and in the final decision, how and what. This will also be expressed with regard to amendments and additions to the RTV Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you. Can we close the debate? Are there any other essential elements to be clarified? Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u177	It's a replica. It was said, by a government representative that it was not possible, the deduction, because it was not possible, had been tabled this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't want to get to the phone, but since colleague Majda is so persistent, I have to take this. I submit that what the Secretary of State says is a questionable question as to the feasibility of that article is no reason to adopt this amendment, especially given the clear position of the Secretariat on the systemic legal dispute of such an amendment, to intervene in the second law. I think that it is not only for solving this problem and the interests here that are different, including between us or through us as individuals in the media, but mainly because of the credibility of this national assembly. Even if we have made such cases in the past that are not the best, we do not need to keep repeating them. That's one thing. The second thing that the Secretary of State says that this article will not be feasible is that the Government should propose a change to this article, or even more so, today's debate, which has already taken place in other amendments, has pointed out that it is necessary and the Secretary of State has confirmed that the Government, in cooperation with RTV and others, will prepare a comprehensive amendment to the law, which will also address these issues, which are not optimally resolved, I agree, neither in that media law nor in that law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you. Whether we can conclude the debate, the replicas and so on and move on to the vote. I think we've already said all about it. Yes, you can. I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. Now, procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u181	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask or propose, or whatever, a half-hour recess to consult before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u182	I'm doing a half-hour break and I'll see you again at this room at 4:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u183	In a few minutes, we'll start to figure out the situation, and if there's no one in the hall, we'll stop the meeting. I demand a 30-minute recess to be in this time, now it's been 40 minutes, I see no reason to sit here and wait for us to be done. I will procedurally make the first determination of presence, if then another time and if we do not conclude at this time I think we must stick to the rules of procedure and what we have agreed. [[...]] So we figure out the conjunctivities for the first time. For the first time, we weren't concluding, and now I think we're getting ahold of each other. Please, if we can find the conclusion again so that we can proceed with the work. We've been through the cards formally, but we weren't actually in there. Ladies and gentlemen, I find that we are concluding and we are 48, 49, 50. So we can move on. I would like to ask Mr Anderlich, if he wishes, on behalf of the parliamentary group that requested a recess before the vote, a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] So we can move on to the vote on the amendment that we have on the special paper sheet, if you remember, to the amendment for the new paragraph 9.a. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote please. Of the 55 present, 19 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment has not been accepted. With this, we have exhausted the second treatment regarding the amendments. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants a word, we are moving on to decisions on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We therefore vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote please. Of the 55 present, 49 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting, please. Of the 55 present, 49 votes in favour, one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've also adopted the title of the law. We also have a proposal for a decision to read: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Aid - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. On behalf of the government, is Mr. Hinko Jenull, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, whom I warmly welcome and at the same time ask if he wants a word? Please, Mr. Jenull. May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The law that you have before you is intended to eliminate the contradiction between two important constitutional principles, namely, that Slovenia is a legal state and that it is a social state at the same time, and that it should enable the constitutional principle that everyone in the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed equal protection of human rights, regardless of, among other things, its property status or material status. Today's judicial procedures are complex, difficult, costly and expensive in accordance with the rule of law and modern standards, which means that certain segments of the population are not accessible, especially because there is a need to pay relatively high fees and representation costs in proceedings. The Republic of Slovenia was not without free legal aid. It is governed by individual procedural laws, the law on criminal proceedings, the law on judicial proceedings, the law on judicial fees, certain substantive rules, for example, the law on mutual and maintenance funds, where the State has also assumed obligations on payment amounts not paid by individual entities, as well as indirect payment of the costs of judicial proceedings. It is new in the proposed law that it fully regulates the area of free legal aid by rounding it into the system. In doing so, it was important to maintain those provisions on free legal aid, which are already covered by the laws in force and which are adapted to the specificities of individual procedures. To these forms of legal aid, the law is subordinately applicable, i.e. to those issues which are not specifically regulated in such regulations. The law is prepared by example of comparable legal arrangements in Europe, particularly the Austrian and German regulations. Free legal aid will be decided by the District Courts, ensuring professional decision-making or assessing the criteria for success and ensuring the decentralisation of decision-making throughout the Republic of Slovenia. Free legal assistance will be provided by legal aid services in district courts under the first legal advice in deciding on this aid, by non-governmental organisations in the framework of the first legal advice and, in particular, by pre-just advice, and by lawyers and notaries in those procedures where it is compulsory to represent lawyers and notaries. The costs of free legal aid for which funds are provided in the budget of the Supreme Court have been determined on the basis of the number of recipients of the minimum wage and on the basis of the extrapolation of data on participants in judicial proceedings to this number, and we find that for 2001 they are adequately foreseen in the budget. I would like to say about one of the issues that have arisen in the public eye that the law has not sufficiently stimulated the pre-justification, that it is also incorporated into the law, to the extent possible. The beneficiaries of free legal aid may, by special condition and by time limit, be obliged to seek an out-of-court settlement before the commencement of the proceedings, I recall the third paragraph of Article 28. By this law, Slovenia fulfils the obligation to which the Constitutional Court has also pointed out that free legal assistance or access to court is provided, not only at the normative level but also at the specific level, and thus fulfils its obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights and in accordance with the instruments and recommendations of the Council of Europe and in accordance with its commitment to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Lavrinc, to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the types of laws that the Committee has considered that will be spoken of now or in that hour. For the introduction, I would say that this law has been dealt with particularly thoroughly in the Committee. This also shows the scope of the report, which you can see from your materials, and of course also that we discussed it at the 5th regular session and then at the 6th regular session. Why? First of all, I must point out that there was no discussion as to whether or not the law should go quickly, but we all agreed on it. However, more discussion was, of course, about the substantive solutions themselves. The considerations concerned in particular whether the law, as originally submitted, adequately met our expectations on this issue or not and what the financial consequences would be in this case, i.e. in the case of the adoption of this law. As is known, there has also been the thesis in the media that such a law would be an expensive burden on our budget. Strong concerns were expressed by the judicial branch about deciding on free legal aid to decide on the courts. The thesis was that this would put an additional burden on the courts already so burdened. Therefore, the proposal to set up a special office at the Ministry of Justice has fallen. On behalf of the interested professional public, a representative of the community of social workers centres and a deputy of the Ombudsman, who stressed the need for such a system law, also took part in the discussion because, as he said, they are already providing this free legal aid in some way. With regard to the concerns of the judiciary, as well as the communities of social work centres with the proposal to set up a special office, the members of the committee cited much more objections. Thus, the view prevailed that we do not need a special office, and we listened to the proposaler who explained in the discussion that this is also a European practice. When we first thoroughly debated that, so to speak, matter, it was found that the law needed some additional treatment, in short, amendments that would, of course, allow the law to really achieve its objective, and this is to simplify the procedure for those who needed and justified it to actually deal with bureaucracy. We have requested that procedures be simplified, we have also proposed to include procedures before administrative courts, pension procedures and so on. In short, the assessment was that it would be the wisest if the proposer prepared one such set of amendments, which I would have to say is that the applicant agreed with our concerns that it was explained that they had already been debated in the government or in the drafting of the law. [[...]] Therefore, the Committee was united to give the possibility to the government, to end this debate and to continue it at the 6th meeting, where the government brought amendments, which essentially followed exactly what was required in our debate. Since it was not in our opinion that the members of the committee were sufficiently simplified in some cases, I will not refer to the articles, because I think it makes no sense, but it is the 25th new article, 51st, 53rd and so on, we have drafted on the committee, virtually unanimously some amendments with which we have supplemented the law. That is why I propose, my fellow Members and colleagues, that you support the amendments that support them, or that you give your own, committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, they would like to discuss first Mr Dusan Vukko, Liberal Democracy, then Mrs Majda Zupan and then Mr Janez Podobnik, Mr Miran Potrč and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The Republic of Slovenia has so far not had a single system of free legal aid. Although this institution has been partly legalized in individual sectoral rules, it has proved in practice that the system was not effective and did not satisfy the constitutional principle of equality before the law. This constitutional principle also means, inter alia, that all people have the same opportunity to judge before the same courts and, of course, by the same rules. In particular, the poorer segments of the population who were denied access to the court were in an unequal position because they were unable to pay for legal services. Therefore, there is still a need for a free legal aid institution which allows individuals who do not have sufficient material resources to be freed from the costs and fees of lawyers they urgently need in order to obtain certain legal advice, in relation to the procedures for exercising their rights and in order to defend them in the courts. The right to judicial protection is one of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Every citizen has the right to decide on his rights and duties independently, impartially and by law a court established. However, today it is not enough that this right is granted only formally. It is also the duty of the State to provide assistance to those disadvantaged, for full equality is not feasible and is only ideal, and the State can, of course, provide at least such assistance that will remove the essential obstacles to the exercise of constitutional rights and the protection of the rights of individuals. The Institute for Free Legal Assistance means clarifying both constitutional and international principles for facilitating access by the poor to courts, promoting legal advice for the poor and covering the most pressing costs and enabling the implementation of the principle of modern social state and ensuring equality of citizens before law. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will therefore support the Law on free legal assistance and also support all those amendments supported by the Committee on Internal Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Government Representative, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. The Law on free legal assistance is a novelty in the Slovenian legal order and it is high time for us Members to have it on parliamentary benches, because it seeks to resolve issues or ways in its entirety and independently that allow access to judicial protection for all, including the people who could not do so because of the poor property and social situation. While we have so far had specific provisions on free legal aid in certain individual laws, the matter has not been fully regulated. By law, we want to realize the constitutional principle of the rule of law and the social state, as has already been said, the right to justice and the principle of equality and the obligation to integrate into the European legal order. The bill has already been drafted by the Bajuk government and the current government has almost fully complied with the proposals of the home committee. The law regulates the availability of legal advice before the initial proceedings to parties who do not have sufficient resources; regulates the system of granting free legal assistance for legal representation and other legal services provided by law in all judicial proceedings; regulates the unification of financial and procedural criteria for authorisation and establishes conditions for, hopefully, the effective functioning of the legal aid institution. It is also important to point out that it introduces the first legal advice which is free of charge for all beneficiaries and does not require the determination of the required legal conditions. The first legal advice is also applicable in matters of health, pension, disability and social insurance and unemployment. Legal aid is therefore to be provided by lawyers and notaries and courts when it comes to the issue of the exemption of the costs of judicial proceedings, as well as by non-profit and non-governmental organisations which will obtain a concession to provide free legal advice, namely for the entire pre-trial procedure. Free legal aid shall be decided by the Presidents of the District Courts and applications may also be made by applicants in 44 District Courts, which will bring this form of assistance closer to the people. We are aware that free legal aid will be sought in particular by people who, in addition to having a poorer wealth and social situation and that ignorance is the right and irregular to open too many offices, we hope that this law will ensure that their rights are effectively protected from a wide variety of institutions. The purpose of the law must not be to give free legal aid to cases that do not have a prospect of success. In deciding whether to be eligible for free legal aid, a lot of common sense will have to be used, as there will be a wide variety of life situations where this aid will be needed. The adoption of the Free Legal Aid Act will not be allowed to result in unnecessary justification. That is why the issue of payment to lawyers and notaries for the provision of these services is also raised, and in this direction we have also tabled an amendment. The law and amendments will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u192	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State! The SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party will support the law on free legal aid. I also fully agree with the introductory opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Mr Lavrinc, that the Committee has done its work very thoroughly and that some practice has been positively combined in this law, which is the best question. The law has already been signed by Mrs Brezigarev with extensive international experience and comparative legal representation. Then came the broad opinion of our secretariat and then two meetings of the Committee, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the political system, the participation of the Supreme Court, other professional institutions, followed by well-prepared amendments of the Government and only two amendments of the Committee, which are substantive and some additional technical amendments. We probably have a very good marriage ahead of us. The procedure is complicated and the content is good. The Republic of Slovenia has not yet had a uniformly regulated system of free legal aid. As my colleagues have already said, this institution has, in various forms, been enacted under individual procedural rules. However, these chapters in the laws did not pay so much attention, nor nor did they in practice, that they could claim that the system was effective and that it works as required by international instruments. Here I would like to stress in particular the Council of Europe resolution and some recommendations. In particular, the Council of Europe resolution on legal aid and advice, which states, inter alia, that the State must ensure that the public is informed of the legal advice available. The question is whether the existing options have already been sufficiently known to our citizens and citizens. And even more crucial: how the content of this law will come between Slovenian citizens and citizens. The State is obliged, following a resolution of the Council of Europe, to ensure that the public is informed of this. The adoption of the law constitutes obligations under the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of the acquis, but it is not a condition for entry into the European Union. It is true, however, that the adoption of a law on free legal aid, that this is the requirement of the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular Article 6 thereof, which has repeatedly stressed, in the case of the European Court of Human Rights, that the human rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights are not merely of a theoretical nature, but that they are also effectively allowed and can be effectively enforced or enforced. The right to judicial protection, after the end of our country, is one of fundamental human rights and freedoms, but it is not sufficient that the right to judicial protection is recognised only theoretically, but it is essential that positive measures of the State ensure the possibility of effective and effective exercise of the right to judicial protection of everyone, irrespective of property or social status. Persons with a poor financial situation shall not be subject to an insurmountable obstacle to access to the court. In legal terms, all citizens are equal before the courts. However, access to justice is in fact not the same for everyone. The legislator also solved this problem of real inequality by introducing free legal aid. I will list some of the reasons why our Group particularly supports the proposed law. The right to free legal aid under the proposed law will apply to proceedings before the courts, in front of all courts of general jurisdiction and specialised courts in the Republic of Slovenia. Before the Constitutional Court, I stress, before the Constitutional Court and all international courts. This information is also very important: also before all international courts. Before the latter, with the exception of only if no free legal aid scheme has been set up before these courts or if, under the rules of the international court, the beneficiary under this law would not be entitled to free legal aid. Moreover, it will also be possible to exercise this right in the procedures for the out-of-court settlement of disputes, as regulated by the law. The proposal stressed in the text that in the Republic of Slovenia we do not have a systematic way of settling disputes outside of the country, but this law is also being prepared. Without a doubt, the National Assembly will be pleased to consider it and also accept it when it comes to the procedure. As has already been pointed out in the presentation by my colleagues, I would particularly like to highlight the Institute of First Legal Advice. The law introduces him. This is free of charge and does not require a procedure for determining the conditions laid down in this Act. Therefore, the first legal advice does not require a rather complicated procedure to determine the conditions of this law. The first legal advice shall be regarded as an explanation to the beneficiary of the legal situation in his case and a brief advice on the possibility of an out-of-court settlement, on the rights and obligations to initiate the procedure, on the jurisdiction of the court, on the procedural rules, costs and method of enforcement of the decision. The solution proposed by the Government in the form of an amendment is also very important. I think it is on the proposal of the State Council, the Commission of the State Council, and also on the recommendation of the Secretariat. Legal advice may also be provided in matters of health, pension, disability, social insurance and unemployment insurance. The additional reasons, which are also the key content of this law and which we support, are the chapter governing the conditions for granting free legal aid. The bill defines or essentially sets two key, two types of conditions. The first is the financial position of the applicant and the so-called procedural condition. In the first proposal, the legislator shall distinguish between the income and income of the applicant and the assets of the applicant with which he has the resources. In determining the financial position of the applicant, the law also includes the financial situation of the applicant's family if the applicant is not a single person. In view of these differences, the proposal for a law in the regular form of free legal aid sets out the so-called income price, which relates to the amount of the minimum wage laid down by the law, and the property price, which represents 20 times the minimum wage. I would also like to highlight here the substantive debate that opened up on the Committee. It was the position of representatives of the community of social work centres. They thought it would overload them. But I think the decision then was right when the government intervened. In any event, social work centres must also participate in the process of identifying this important element for the granting of free legal aid. Nevertheless, the proposal of the law, as an extremely free legal aid, allows persons who receive monetary social assistance under the Social Protection Act to be granted free legal assistance without determining the condition of the financial situation. Of the forms of legal aid which are tactically listed in the law, some are also further defined. These forms of legal aid allow the beneficiary to receive free legal aid for all stages of the procedure pending completion. Including legal advice, for which free legal aid may be invoked before the start of the proceedings, and including notary services, if these are necessary to resolve the dispute, either judicial or extrajudicial. This information would also be good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to know it as soon as possible when this law is adopted. The form of legal aid also includes the exemption from payment of costs of the procedure, which are an important item in the procedure itself, and - not least - arise from the procedure itself. The scope of the approval depends on the assessment of the authority which decides on it. This may be partial or complete and, as a rule, to the extent claimed by the beneficiary or the applicant. One of the important issues was who decided on free legal aid. It has been decided that this is within the competence of the President of the District Court, who is designated by the law as the competent authority for free legal assistance. The transcript of the Internal Policy Committee shows that both the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Judicial Council had doubts about such a decision. But I believe that both the committee and the government have made the right decision when it insisted that the competent authority for deciding on free legal aid is therefore within the jurisdiction of the President of the District Court. However, since free legal aid must also cover free legal aid for the composition of the application, the applicant in the law also pursued this very important circumstance, without which the whole system would not make any real sense. In addition, it is necessary to provide a system that will operate in principle all in one and a well-known place and which will ensure a rapid, high-quality and efficient resolution of claims with appropriate staffing. A solution to these questions is proposed by law in the form of professional legal assistance services organised and installed in each district court and operated in two ways: on the one hand, it means administrative, technical and professional assistance to the competent decision-making body and, on the other hand, it has certain powers to provide assistance to the user or the applicant for free legal assistance As I have already said in this brief debate, in the Committee's debate, there were a number of comments on the account of the overly complicated procedure for obtaining free legal aid. After discussion, the Committee prepared a proposal for an amendment, which provides that the data not available to the applicant shall be obtained by the body which decides on the free legal assistance under the official responsibility. We fully support the Committee's decision. In the Committee's debate, it was also suggested that it should be noted more firmly that, in the case of free legal aid, the out-of-court settlement attempt is binding. The assessment of procedures, the conditions for granting free legal aid, shall take into account the criteria for assessing likely success. In particular, he pointed out this element when he argued why it should not be decided by the Presidents of the District Courts, the President of the Supreme Court. In fact, it was pointed out that in this case the court would not be able to remain impartial if the case had to be decided in advance. But the amendments have resolved the matter very correctly and we will support them in our Group of Members. Our support would draw once again on the Council of Europe resolution, on some recommendations, and I would ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Secretary of State, to consider ways not only through the Internet, because those who know that they have no money and will be using free legal aid, also have no possibility of following legislative solutions online to find a way for the Slovenian State to inform the Slovenian public what law was adopted today in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Potrč will speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on free legal aid. We are convinced that the constitutional right to judicial protection is exercised only if it can be realized as effectively as possible, but not if it is written on paper. I do not argue that so far our legal system has not had many elements that have helped to exercise the right of judicial protection in proceedings, that it has had such rights with regard to the possibility of exemption from court fees and the costs of proceedings, and that such options, in particular with regard to labour and social disputes, have had a special representation of trade unions and lower fees. However, I think that, in spite of this, it is true that the social situation in Slovenia is changing in the way that for many, the payment of the court fee has become unattainable and that many cannot successfully exercise their rights, which are complex, complex, difficult if they are not provided with adequate professional assistance. For I would like to say that our laws are becoming more complex rather than simpler, that more and more rights are being regulated in very different ways in very different laws and that their knowledge requires great specialists, if not, can be expected for free to exercise this right. All of these are reasons why there is no doubt that it is right to adopt a free legal aid bill. I would like to remind you that our colleague Borut Pahor, in the previous term, was the proponent of such a law, which did not come into the House of State, and that after being tabled by the Government, he also withdrew it, although his concept, which, I know, would have said so, was prepared by expert teams, not by himself, was based on a somewhat simpler basis. The second thing I would like to say is that our approach to the examination of the law, in addition to supporting regulation, was based on warnings whether the law was simply not required to deal with the subject matter. We have given these warnings at the first meeting of the parent working body and have reasoned that those seeking legal assistance are, as a rule, genuine ignorant, often also socially, according to the ability of less skilled regulation of things and before the administrative authorities and before the courts and elsewhere and that many, very complicated requirements that have been laid down in the law can, therefore, lead to the fact that the procedure will be so demanding that few people can enforce it and will not achieve their purpose. In particular, we have pointed out this under very difficult conditions for material rights and a lot of difficult procedures which must be completed from the fulfilment of forms, applications, rescues and the like in order to ensure that its right under the law is also effectively guaranteed. That is why we were pleased that, even with our warnings, and especially with the same or very similar warnings from many colleagues and colleagues in the home working body, there have been some solutions that have only made the law slightly - I emphasise a little simpler and more transparent. These cases were mentioned. This is mainly the first free legal advice and to simplify the collection of documentation on property. And that, I think, is the two essential innovations that the law has brought with it, thanks to the debate in the home labour body, which has significantly improved it in this way. We believe it would suggest that we continue to think about whether the free legal aid law has exhausted all paths and opportunities for a better and more effective exercise of the rights to legal protection of all citizens and citizens. We would advise the government and the competent ministry to consider whether the Law on Lawyers would provide, on a model basis, solutions in some other countries - of course also a tax-free, to a limited extent - free of charge for the provision of services to lawyers or as such an obligation in a proportionate part to the extent of traffic, as this would also provide greater assistance to citizens and citizens in the exercise of this right. And in the end. We want the law to realize its purpose and purpose and that those who are needed, ignorant, will receive the necessary free legal assistance. We believe that the government, the departmental ministry, the third branch of government, while having some concerns about some of the solutions in the law, will monitor the implementation of the law and that we will be able to get the first information on its implementation in the home working body in any year or two, so that we can assess together whether it gives the effects that we all want, or whether we are right to point out that, despite progress, it may still be so complex and demanding that all the objectives can not be achieved through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The previous speakers expressed a number of opinions, with which we are also in absolute agreement in the Slovenian National Party Group. So just for a little while. We are pleased that this time we will rightly, even under the rules of the Rules of Procedure - and I hope that we will, by means of a rapid procedure, adopt a law on free legal assistance, because this will finally give us the fundamental human right that has been in force in the State of the Republic of Slovenia for a long time: the right of everyone to have access to the courts and to judicial protection. For many have not had this in practice today. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we estimate that free legal aid must be directed to all those who need assistance both in administrative procedures and in the areas of pension, disability, health insurance and also in cases of unemployment. I also agree with Mr Podobnik, who mentioned that the right must be exercised in all courts, but where it is sought. I would also point out the words of a representative of the Ombudsman at one of the meetings of his mother's working body, where he offered the idea of following up on the case of Great Britain, where the lawyer's legal aid is granted without a major formal procedure. Finally, at the same time, I am pleased that when we adopt the Free Legal Aid Act, we will fulfil another of the many obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, which fall within the framework of the assessment of the political criteria for integration into the European Union. I am particularly pleased that this is one of those areas that is worth a lot of words, actions and legislation more than some of the things we have talked about in connection with the European Union in the past days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Petan has the floor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we believe that this is one of the laws which in practice shows our relationship that the Constitution and other acts of the country contain the content on the social and legal state. It points to our approach with regard to the general and implementation levels. In our case, legal services - we mean the prices of these services - have reached enormous levels and these prices threaten the possibility of exercising the right to equality before the law, exercising the right to judicial protection of everyone, regardless of social status, regardless of their financial possibilities. This, of course, is the area of the exercise of human rights in practice. The country, especially if declared social, and this should be ours and should be, has different tools that can mitigate large social disparities that threaten this equality of citizens before the law due to social components. The right to effective judicial protection cannot be granted only formally. In fact, this right or rights are reflected in accessibility, in the possibility of exercising effective legal protection.The duty of the State - as I have already said - is to enable all citizens, including those who are excluded from the social situation by the use of these rights, due to costs. The Free Legal Aid Act is one of these tools by which the State exercises its rights and at the implementation level it points to an approach with regard to the social and legal state. It must be recognised that certain forms of free legal aid are already known in our country and that this institution has already been enacted in various forms or in individual procedural rules, laws and the like, but of course there was no comprehensive law for this area. And this gap is supposed to fill the law that is ahead of us, like some kind of roof marriage. With regard to individual solutions in the SDS, we believe that the bodies that are best aware of the social picture of the applicants should be included in the process - we are thinking mainly of social work centres - but not of making a large administrative apparatus out of this process and establishing new institutions, which will then primarily take care of themselves, but not of the mission to which they are intended. In the SDS, we think that this law is necessary, necessary, but it's probably a little late. I think it would be best if you showed up on our food earlier. That is why our Group supports this law and will also support all solutions aimed at improving and facilitating the approach of all citizens to the said right of equality before the law. With this law, we will be given the opportunity, and the effectiveness of this use will probably be obtained by law, which will be adopted at the next point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, on behalf of DeSUS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Because a lot of things have been said and not to repeat each other, I'm going to be very brief. Our Group agrees that the country has an appropriate law for free legal aid as soon as possible, because it is also one of the constitutional and social categories that we need to know how to resolve properly. The proposed law satisfies us, including the amendments that have been tabled, although they are extremely large for a relatively short law. For the amendments made by the Government and supported by the mother's working body, we believe they are suitable for adoption, although it is always possible to say where the limit value to which this free legal aid should be: whether it is properly low or not - something needs to be decided - and we support the proposed solution. Therefore, free legal aid will be justified by those who have a proven low social status, and among them - unfortunately - even those who have proof, but their actual standard, as it is officially shown, is quite different; and, unfortunately, these cases too will not be small. We may not often know how to separate grains from weeds, and weeds are also found in each grain, and exploitation will be determined here. In order for the Panas not to interfere with the adoption, it is better to have a marriage and also to hide someone under the social low category and to adopt the law. The proposed amendment law will therefore be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Those were the representatives' words. I'm sorry. I didn't see you. [[...]] I'm asking you to come closer. Mr. Levich, Young People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Legal aid means for someone without funds, but with a legitimate request for judicial protection, the possibility of exercising one fundamental human rights - that is, access to the court and to judicial protection. Therefore, we welcome the proposal of the law that we have before us on the table in the Party of Young Slovenia and consider it wise to support it. However, it would also be wise to take into account the concerns expressed by the judges, particularly in the work relating to the costs of the proceedings and the procedure for granting free aid. Well, consider it and think it over, and then make the best decision. The National Assembly must not again afford the impression that it has not accepted and taken into consideration the proposals of the profession. Another issue we would like to point out in the Party of Young Slovenia is the fact that even with ideally regulated legislation regulating free legal aid, we will not achieve the goal if justice does not work; therefore, if the court drowns in arrears and at the same time threatens to shut down electricity. We need to be aware of this and take action. One of the opportunities to decide on a better part of the judges is already on the agenda for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. But now I really think that we have finished with the presentations on the positions of the groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I do not have written applications for the debate, so I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. Anybody want a word? Nobody? Mr. Lavrinc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. So, I can debate now in the general debate or then in the context of individual amendments, but I was struck by the idea of a colleague from the kind of SMS that there is probably something that needs to be said in principle. I have an amendment before me and, of course, I also have these concerns raised by the judges regarding the level of costs. So there's like some kind of fear that now, because this business is going to be more, so to speak, because even those who didn't hope to go into some kind of justice, into some kind of procedure, etc., will need this help, and of course the country will pay. No, for when it comes to justice, for example, the one who loses is actually paying these costs. That's the first one. Second. We have also decided, consciously and, apart from that, after careful consideration, that in other procedures, this free legal aid must also be provided - that is, in administrative proceedings, in procedures concerning the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights, etc. Of course, there have also been a number of aspirations for this to be reduced in some way. I mean now that some others would try to do this by, for example, giving lawyers and notaries only 60% of the reward. I think it's those solutions that are worth thinking about. In fact, especially because - not now to defend this clan, God forbid; I myself think - for example - in the field of notary profession, this country has not yet said the last word and at least it should not be so. Since the situation is not changing, this is a fact, and until we reach out as the legislative branch of power - in my opinion, more seriously - in this area, there will be no change. This ornament, which has now been offered to the people, but for a few percent, the chamber itself has decided to lower its tariffs, does not mean anything. We need to make a serious profit analysis, gentlemen. I'm telling you, there's gonna be a lot of hell. So, and of course, we can't even all of them again. I've discussed this before. But the other thing I'm worried about is that, for example, if I had lawyers now who still have a different situation than notaries. The interiors are known cases when a number of contract workers stand up to the left, right, not seeing what they actually see, and it would be very good if, in my opinion, the government confirmed the notary tariffs, there was someone who would control them, who was all there in those offices working, how and so on, while in lawyers it is not quite so. Even if someone else prepares a file or reads it and prepares or attacks or defenses to say so, in the end, it is only the lawyer who has to do these things; and in the short, it is certainly a personal engagement. After all, it is also a personal profession. I'm afraid if we do that, these people's lawyers will be afraid in some way. I don't know how to show up. Then there's one more amendment that in such a case, she's supposed to be yelling at a law firm or a notary chamber. But I'm asking you how many lawyers have been expelled from the bar. About as many as the judges of those who, for example, slept in the writings. So these things are good - well, especially as an appeal, understand this debate - that it is good to consider all positive and negative effects and, of course, of course, I am interested in the proposaler's opinion on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We are at first reading, general debate on the reasons, principles and objectives of the law. Who wants another word? No one else. Thank you. I conclude this, this part of the debate, by concluding the general debate. Since there are no more debaters, I am moving to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I take it it would be useful to judge whether we are final. Members and Members who may be in the lobby or nearby, if they can join us, please. I also ask Members of Parliament and Members of the Chamber to check that the cards are in the right places. Please, if we can check the presence and determine the conclusion. Right now it looks like we're 42. I now find that there are 48 Members and Members present, so we are final and we can decide. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote on this, please. Of the 51 present, 45 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a free legal aid law of 23.5.2001 [[It's material on thirteen pages.]] . Two more amendments, as I'm told, are coming. Well, it's about when we're in the right place. We're moving on to Article 1. We have here, as you can see, three amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to Article 1. First, we vote on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 44 Members and Members voted, one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the third amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the third amendment has also been adopted. We are voting on Article 1 as a whole, please. Of the 55 present, 33 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 is adopted. We're moving on to Article 7, here's an amendment. I am opening a debate on Article 7 and the amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 42 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We're moving to Article 8, and we have an amendment here, too. Who wants a word? I'm opening a debate. [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 45 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We move on to article 11, and we have only one amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 11 as a whole. Of the 54 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 11 has been adopted We are now in Article 20, and there is only one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 20. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 40 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Let us vote on the 20th article as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 35 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 20 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 22. We have two amendments here. I am opening a debate on these amendments and Article 22. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote, first of all on the first amendment to Article 22. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 31 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 22. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 38 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. Article 23(3) We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendment to Article 23. We're voting. Of the 53 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 23 as a whole. Of the 53 present, 34 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 23 has been adopted. At Article 24, we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 24. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 24. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 37 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 35 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 24 has been adopted. We are at the new article 25, where we have two amendments, as you can see. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote, first on the amendment to the amendment, that's sequence number one. We're voting, please. Of the 53 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 37 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 25 has been adopted. We're at Article 26, where we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 43 Members and Members voted in favour and no one opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The second amendment was adopted. We still have a full vote on Article 26. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 26 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 28. There are two amendments here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 28. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 28. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] We've accepted the other amendment with this. We still vote on Article 28 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 28 has been adopted. Now we're at Article 30. Here I would like to draw your attention to the two materials that we have received on the bench, namely the amendments to Article 30. Both amendments were tabled by the New Slovenia Group, the date is 30.5.2001. This is what we will do: as the first amendment, we will include the amendment of New Slovenia, which begins with the text - that is, the order number 1 - "The first and second paragraphs of Article 30 are replaced by the new paragraph, which reads: Justification to free legal aid...", and so on. Then the second amendment to Article 30 is also from New Slovenia, on a special paper that begins: "In the fourth paragraph of Article 30, the text shall be read: for legal aid under this law is a lawyer..." and so on. That's the second amendment. The third amendment would then be the one that is back on page 6 under order number 1 and the fourth amendment is the amendment on page 7 under order number 2. We will vote in this order when we vote. But I'm opening the debate first. Who wants a word? Mrs Zupanova, please and then Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain the amendments we have made in our Group. The first concerns that the beneficiary may, at his own discretion, choose a lawyer or notary. We apologize for this because we believe that it must be in the country's interest that beneficiaries of free legal aid receive the best possible legal aid. The adoption of the proposed amendment will lead to an improvement in the quality of legal services and notary services. The experience of assigning a lawyer under official duty in many cases shows that the lawyer does not deal with such parties sufficiently, and because we know that they will in any event be assigned representation by official duty after the rolling system. At the same time, lawyers will be provided 100 per cent - or less, if we decide on this by the budget, in accordance with the applicable legal rate - and when the client freely chooses a lawyer, he will be forced to make an effort and to protect the interests of the client. However, in the second amendment, we would like to ensure that lawyers or notaries are paid for legal aid, not in full, as determined by the notary or the lawyer’s tariff, but only at a rate of up to 60 per cent. The National Assembly must behave rationally when it comes to budgeting, so we propose that these legal tariffs or notary tariffs be reduced in these cases. It must be taken into account that lawyers and notaries will have work provided by the adoption of the law on free legal assistance, which is different from when they seek work themselves, and that it is guaranteed to pay costs and rewards by the budget and that it is to help those in a difficult material and social situation. We would, however, ask if a representative of the government would present his position to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. In fact, the two amendments proposed by my colleague Zupanov on behalf of the New Slovenia Group are both substantive and outposted from the way this law is adopted, although it is quickly followed. We'll have to make a decision about him in no time. The second amendment is explicitly said to be proposed for the proposed amendment to be made by the Government. This means that it is not possible to continue today - the government means government, not a government representative; if you thought the government should go to a government meeting. That's the first one. As for the first amendment, which speaks of a free legal aid beneficiary choosing a lawyer or notary to provide legal aid, in principle, such a solution would be close to me. However, I would like to ask the representative of the government or the secretariat for an answer, what does this mean from a systemic point of view, so that we do not break by such a solution some of the relations that are enshrined in other laws and also in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u209	With a small correction: if I have correctly understood the intention of these amendments, it is not a government as an institution but a government representative who is usually defined for issues in the debate - if I understand correctly, but the proponents will probably say so themselves. Anyone else want a word, please? Nobody else? A representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I must say that such a way of free choice is also one of the options, which we have also discussed in the drafting of the law, but we have decided on a different way. I want to say the following first. The correctness of a lawyer’s conduct cannot be a criterion for who is to be appointed and who is not to be appointed because a lawyer is obliged to represent a client in accordance with ethics, the law on lawyers and procedural laws. And this duty is not controlled by a solicitor, but also controlled by a court which is empowered to inform the Chamber if it is assessed that the lawyer also does not effectively and conscientiously represent such a party, represented by free legal aid. So these cases cover the rules. As for this free choice, I would explain that the reaction of lawyers to this law is likely to vary. Some would be happy to have this free legal aid, but some would not, because they have enough customers. And there was a problem how to assign these clients to individual lawyers, if they choose for themselves, because in some known names, there could be a lot of these customers and they would be forced to reject them because of overload, which means that the free legal aid service would have a lot of work to do, so that they would have to direct them to others. So we have assessed, because it is also the duty of lawyers to accept such representation, that it is appropriate for each lawyer to arrive or belong in a row on the basis of a list submitted by the District Council of Lawyers to the President of the District Court. I must also say that free choice would also not be appropriate for the reasons of costs, because it would mean that a lawyer could choose from any place in the Republic of Slovenia, at least as it is written down, which would of course greatly undermine costs because a lawyer, if he were from Ljubljana and represented in Cyprus, would represent a considerable burden on the budget or the opponent if that party had succeeded. So I believe that this solution, which we are proposing, is the one that will be most easily adopted in the legal order and in the types of notaries, will apply to each and every one. As regards the possibility of substitution, however, it is also reasonably embedded in the existing Article 30 and in the last paragraph in order to achieve a discharge for justified reasons. Maybe another amendment that concerns a proposal to lower the prize immediately. [[...]] [[Dr. Miha Brac's president, please.]] I must say that we have also discussed this and thought about it, but there are several reasons why such a solution is not possible. [[...]] For the first time, the question of payment at a lower rate of something the State is paying would raise the question that it is possible to do so elsewhere. This is a service covered by the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Notariat, and there is no reason for these services to be paid less in the event of free legal aid. In particular for the reason that there would then be a different situation between lawyers who are appointed under other laws - I have initially pointed out that other provisions on legal aid are in force. Thus, for example, a lawyer appointed under an official duty in criminal proceedings would be paid at full tariff under the CAP, the one appointed under this law would be paid at a lower rate, which could also lead to speculation, in which case legal aid would be provided free of charge. However, I must say that Mr Lavrinc's argument is also true that we expect services under free legal aid from those areas which are low tariffs, but lawyers and notaries' tariffs are built on average, so that, in particular, invaluable social matters will be treated fairly low, those which depend on the value of the dispute being quite high. We expect that those who will be beneficiaries will not be in conflict over large assets. Because if there were such assets in the game, it is also likely that they would not be justified. In this way, it could reduce some of the items that are already in place, particularly for labour disputes and social disputes, so low that there is a problem with the implementation of this free legal aid. So I believe that we would remain in this system, which we have, then also complies with legal aid, as is already the case under existing rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to ask the government representative and thank him for this explanation of your position. You have mentioned and reminded us that each party has the option - there is a possibility in the law - to complain if it actually assesses that the lawyer has not acted in accordance with the law and with all the rules and that otherwise the Chamber of Lawyers decides and can decide and must decide. I would ask you if you could tell me: in the last three years, how many such cases have there been, how many have the parties actually complained, how have the bar decided on this, and if there has been any final decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u213	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u214	I could not give more precise information, as a government representative, either, because the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers is under the regime and the powers of the Bar. I am aware, however, that this information was presented last year at one of the press conferences of the Bar Association, that in recent years two licenses have been withdrawn from lawyers for violations of the law and the Code and that a certain number of penalties have been imposed in the disciplinary procedure, but I ask that this be taken only in an informative manner. There's something else I'd like to say. When it comes to the costs of this free legal aid, which Mr Lavrinc also pointed out that these beneficiaries will be tested in terms of the possibility of success and will receive legal aid where there is a likelihood of success, which we also expect to be at least halved. However, because in this case the costs will be paid by the opponent who will truly lose means that the country will, as we expect, receive a substantial part of these costs. We have also incorporated into the law the elements that enable this, paragraphs 46, 47 and 48, into the possibility that a party who has acquired or acquired money in such a justice financed by the State may, in this case, request the customer to reimburse the costs. So I think it's taken care of to deal with funds economically.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Can I finish? Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. I would like to express my support for this amendment tabled by my colleague Zupanov. That is, from the Ombudsman's report on what the Secretary-General said, there is only one sentence that could be read under the heading of the Ineffective Disciplinary Commission of the Bar. Here the Ombudsman notes: "It would be necessary for the Bar to speed up disciplinary procedures and ensure the effective work of disciplinary bodies, in particular the First-Level Disciplinary Commission..." and then to link in this regard certain matters which are obsolete due to inefficiency. For this very reason, as a group of Members, we have proposed this possible solution so that the client can find himself a lawyer and a choice between those who work effectively and those who work less effectively. And since this is the first time we've passed such a law, I think it's worth a try and put it into the law. But if it turns out to be ineffective, sometimes the law in this area can be changed. However, as regards the level of tariffs, it would of course be logical that this level for these tariffs is not the same as that established on the free market. Because, as has been said, work is somehow assigned here. So it doesn't have to be a lawyer or a not-so-so-called lawyer, but it's assigned to him by another instance. Perhaps it is not enough to have the right criteria up to 60%, but it would be worth considering if this work is the same, it must be rewarded the same as the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u217	Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u218	Dear colleagues and colleagues who have proposed these two amendments - at least the first, if we are now talking about this amendment, which we will first vote on and discuss our own judgment on the choice of a lawyer. I think that you are - and in this possibility, so that the client replaces the chosen lawyer - that you have heard all about the costs. In such a case, if someone were to make up his mind to say whether he even tried to make fun of the state, so that he would go somewhere -- I don't know where, as mentioned, I don't know, from Kamnikev Koper to a lawyer -- that it's not possible to prevent this from happening because the dictatorship is bad. That's the first one. Second. I think you've also heard from the Secretary of State, who told you that this matter about ineffective lawyers has already been resolved in the last paragraph of Article 30. And this is not the way it is for lawyers; that is, in this case, it is not the decision of the Bar Association - I fully agree that the crow's eyes will not be excluded, and that is why such a guardian in my opinion would be a bad one - but the competent authority for free legal assistance should, at the request of the beneficiary or his consent, decide to dismiss the lawyer appointed. This I think is a professional person, is a person who can know even more than a lawyer, and therefore - I will say - it will be so much easier then to succeed in those procedures which must then be initiated; of course, in such a case, in my opinion, even within the bar. So I think that this solution, as is now proposed here, is best because it establishes some control mechanism for someone outside this sphere that has been mentioned so far. What's going on is the downsizing of these awards. I, in short, will not support the first amendment of the New Slovenia Group and not the second amendment. But the reasons are what I have just said and what the Secretary of State convinced me to do with his performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate and get to the vote? Yes, you can. So, I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a vote. Once again, so that there is no mistake, I will tell you what order we are voting on. So, first of all, we are voting on the amendment that we first considered - this is the one that is talking about legal aid at its own discretion. This is amendment number one, New Slovenia. Then the second amendment is also from New Slovenia, which speaks of reduced costs or tariffs for lawyers or notaries; the third amendment is on page 6 of Article 30 below - this moment is still under order number one, we have marked it under number 3. Well, and the one on page 7 above under order number 2 has now become number 4. Is it now clear what we will vote on and in what order? [[Yes, it ……]] So we can vote. First we vote on the first amendment, this is the amendment of New Slovenia. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 15 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 14 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the third amendment to Article 30. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the fourth amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 30 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 42 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 30 has been adopted. It's 6:04 p.m., and we're done for today. Allow me only to warn you that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will continue to discuss the amendments in the second reading, in short, we have a law, this agenda item. And, of course, I have a duty to inform you of the order of the future, so we agreed. I also have here a letter from the Secretary-General, Mr Bandl, proposing that the 16th, 17th and 18th agenda items, these are laws on public gatherings, secret data and public servants, so these three laws would be dealt with on Friday, given that the Minister is absent. So, we've adopted the agenda, and now I'm asking you, are we going forward on the agenda or are we going to comply with this request? Can I put it to a vote? Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u220	I think it's completely incorrect because we had quite a mix-up last week because we set at least two different kinds of laws, the law on external matters and the law on librarianism, and I don't think there's any need for us to change the agenda now in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you. Does anyone object to Mr. Anderlich's opinion? Does anyone have a different opinion? Can we vote on this proposal by Mr Bandl? We can put it to a vote. Let us put to the vote Mr Bandl's proposal, please. Who's in favour of Mr. Bandle's proposal? Oh, now it's gonna be a crisis. Yeah, we're inconclusive, and we can't decide that. Thank you very much. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 10:00.
