ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u1	I invite the Members to come to the hall. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following colleagues and colleagues: Franz Pukšič, Jože Tanko after 4 p.m., Yuri Malovrev, Bogomir Vnučec and Villa Trofenik. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! There are 49 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone! Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I ask for peace and attention in the hall. The log is available in the computer network. Does any of your colleagues want a change or a supplement? Does he have any comment on him? I guess not. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 44 voted in favour of the minutes, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the minutes have been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 10 April this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this context, we will first move on to proposals for the withdrawal of matters from the agenda. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. Does anyone have an interest in discussion? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to decision-making. Please. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President! We have been waiting for a year to come to the agenda for a proposal for a law amending the law following the earthquake recovery and development in Posoč. One year. When will that be?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u3	In the next session. That's what my colleague decided today. The government has recently replaced the text. That's why we're gonna decide about him at the next session. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I have the agenda we got with the reference bearing the date, 10. 4. I ask whether there are any extensions in line with the decision of the previous session, i.e. when we concluded the previous meeting. By the way, I was wondering what happened to the veterinary bill. Please, can you give me the information?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u5	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] on the agenda, I would like to remind you that the meeting at its 4th meeting has decided, on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, to forward the following points to the 5th meeting: the proposal for a law on veterinaryity, on the media, on amendments to and additions to the law on auditing, on amendments to the Law on Health Activities, on amendments to and additions to the Law on the Treatment of Infertility, on restrictive measures, on amending the Law on the Triglav National Park, on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, on the substantive duty to supplement the Law on Victims of War Violence. [[...]] Let me inform the assembly that today, at the consultation, the College has decided that we will decide on the items transferred on the agenda for the time being on item 5 of the proposed agenda. Thus, we will first make a withdrawal, a parliamentary question and an initiative, points 3, 4 and 5 and decide on the points transferred and then in order to proceed. Thus, 21 matters would be decided by the National Assembly at this meeting. We have therefore explained this question. In the context of a rapid procedure - The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes, for consideration by the assembly, a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent loans for the financing of the gradual closure of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine in 2001 and for the assembly to adopt it in a rapid procedure. Would you like a representative of the government? The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 75 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 50 votes in favour, 19 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on road transport. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body was not defined until the proposal. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Yeah.]] My colleague Sok on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I propose, on behalf of our Group of Members, that this law should not be dealt with in a swift manner. While the government has stated in its opinion that the emergency needs of the State are at stake and that for this reason we should adopt this law quickly. But we only got married a few days ago. There were Easter vacations and there was little work to be done on this marriage. The law is quite complex. It also regulates one of the very delicate areas, which is the issue of the distribution of these permits in road transport. This is a matter that has been politicized several times in our public. I think that the law, as it is now written, can mainly affect smaller carriers, including carriers with less means of transport. That is why I propose, so let me just say that this law has not yet been addressed by the labour force of the mother, and that the infrastructure committee and the environment are true. [[...]] This one won't do it till tomorrow. I propose on behalf of our parliamentary group that we reject the swift procedure in this law, that we carry out the first hearing and that the law then goes to the next hearing at the next meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Before I give my word to the parliamentary groups, I ask for peace in the Chamber. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We heard a different opinion from the New Slovenia Group. Do government representatives want a word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 43 votes against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for an industrial property law. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur or the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present in the Chamber. This proposal was supported by 50 of them, 18 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] The proposal was adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of the Institute for Mandatory Reserves, Oil and its Derivatives. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur or the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? Representatives of parliamentary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present in the Chamber. Such a proposal was decided to vote in favour of 42, 18 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 18.]] That's how he was accepted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a plant health law. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body was not defined until the proposal. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Neither do I. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 40 votes against 18 in favour of such a proposal. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 18.]] The proposal was adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a shorter procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the law on rail transport for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother’s working body agrees with such a proposal. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Not at all. I conclude the debate and move ahead with the decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 47 votes in favour, 21 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. As it is said, I would like to point out that we will move from the 4th session 10 items of the agenda, based on Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, to this 5th meeting. I've mentioned them before. As it is said, the assembly of this item will treat it as points 5.a to 5.j. I invite Members and Members to adopt the agenda as we have received by reference. We are voting on this. My friend Patch has a word before that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you, sir, the President. Explanation of the vote within the institution of the Slovenian National Party. We will vote against the proposed agenda for several reasons. Let me go in line so it'll be understandable. This was also one of the reasons why we did not advertise in individual withdrawals or confirmations because there would be some kind of delay and we do not want that in any way in the Slovenian National Party. But let me start with, let's say, a business dictatorship. I will quote Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure, just so that the members of this National Assembly, who so vehemently support all your proposals, will know what they have done at this point in the Rules of Procedure. The rapid procedure for the adoption of the law - which we have today after a quick procedure - you have just voted - says: "When it requires the extraordinary needs of the state, the interests of defence, or of natural disasters, it is possible to pass the law on a rapid procedure." None of these three matters are in Slovenia today. Let's say "thank God." But you're not looking at any dictatorship, no legal norm, but you only accept what your client's Februarys tell you. In the Slovenian National Party, I also oppose the draft agenda from the basic principle of rationalisation and performance. Today's agenda has been supplemented by some points from the previous meeting of the National Assembly, which we have not considered. We have not dealt with them because of individual procedural and, more importantly, because of the substantive diversity of political parties in this national assembly. And if we have not been able to deal with them in the previous regular session, you will be putting them into this session today, even though it is before us, so to speak, the most important act of this country, to which all of us should look here, in order to better shape it in the final phase, that is the budget. All you have achieved is that, with today's enlargement, by grading items such as the amendments to the Rules of Procedure required by the Coalition Treaty, all the other acts adopted at today's meeting will be adopted flat-rately or received with too little attention as they earn. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we expected you, as President of the National Assembly, as President of this quorum, to come to terms with opinions and views. And that is that, unless you find the necessary consensus to deal with a particular point, the matter would also be removed from the agenda. You may recall that we proposed the withdrawal of amendments to the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the Youth Party, the Social Democrats and the New Slovenia so that they could be addressed in a substantive and qualitative manner. And not as the government of the Republic of Slovenia dictates, or in other words, liberal democracy, the unified list, SLS and DeSUS. It is in this way that we will meet quite soon in that void when none of the opposition Members will be able to speak at all. We oppose the proposed agenda for all these reasons, and we are convinced that it would be reasonable to devote all this time to the amendments tabled and to the budget meeting, which is clearly the most important for our country at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u9	Anyone else want to explain their voice? If not, then I am obliged, of course, to explain and answer some of your claims. First of all, I am obliged to say that it is not my responsibility to determine whether there is a consensus for the adoption of certain acts, but whether they fulfil the business conditions. All proposals for items on the agenda of these business conditions also meet these conditions. Therefore, these points could be placed on the agenda and now they will be confirmed by vote. In addition, I would like to point out that the state budget will be adopted at an extraordinary meeting starting on Friday, so the state budget does not fall within the framework of the regular 5th meeting. And in the end, the National Assembly held its fourth session for three weeks. Some points were passed on precisely because decisions were not rushed, but that the National Assembly had sufficient time to address individual issues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, some who failed to deal with them were transferred to this point. And if I may also say my assessment, I think we are slowly normalising our work in the sense that we will very soon be in a position where the National Assembly will no longer have such extensive agendas, but we will have monthly meetings after these big debates on committees, which will be shorter because the debate will also be exhausted there. I am therefore concluding the vote and moving on to the vote. We vote on the agenda as a whole!In the Chamber there are 82 Members and Members present. There were 54 for, 24 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the agenda for the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. In accordance with the agreement, before the point of the parliamentary question and the initiative, for which we will take 15 minutes before the start of the agreement, we will proceed to the consideration of the proposal for the withdrawal of the proposal for a law amending the law on public funds. Ambassadors Miran Potrč and Bojan Kontič informed the assembly, as the proposer of that bill by letter of 10 April, that the draft law amending the law on public funds was withdrawn from the legislative procedure. Would you like the proposer's word? [[They don't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] . Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[Neither do I.]] The MPs and the MPs? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of MEPs Mirano Potrča and Bojan Kontič for the withdrawal of the bill amending the law on public funds - a rapid procedure from the legislative process. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present at the Chamber. 53 votes in favour, 12 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Next, or on the 1st item of the agenda, with which we will also conclude the work of the National Assembly today, at the initiative and questions of Members, the assembly will be held 15 minutes before 3 p.m. During this time, I invite representatives of the government, President Drnovsk, to join us so that we can start our work 15 minutes before 3 p.m. the National Assembly will continue its meeting. Until then, I'm breaking it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u10	Fellow Members, fellow Members! We're moving on to one. TIME OF DAY - THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS AND THE RESOURCES OF THE MISSIONS AND THE EMPLOYMENTS. I welcome the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovska, ministers and other government representatives. During the business period one day before the meeting, we received written statements of questions and initiatives sent. We will begin with the question of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, for this purpose New Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party. Members of these three parliamentary groups will raise the question to the Prime Minister, all of them in order, and then to the competent ministers. I invite my colleague, Petr Levič, to ask a question, and before that, I note the presence in the Chamber. 79 Members and Members are present at the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue its work. The first question, as we say, will be asked by Comrade Levich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! There is already a third conclusion of savings contracts at national housing price. More than 50,000 people are saving, and a large majority are aiming to use savings and loans to solve the housing problem. Among them are many young families who for the first time solve the housing problem. So there's a huge amount of money on the market, it's 100 billion tolars, that's almost 10% of this year's budget. These funds will be released at a fairly short interval. I would like to know when the government will take care of and start taking concrete measures to prevent the exposure of prices to the housing market. I know that the government aims to promote partnership between municipalities and the country in the provision of housing, to prepare plans for the acquisition of habitable land and similar measures. We welcome that purpose. But I don't think it's purpose enough. Specific actions are needed. I wonder when the government will start taking these measures, given that the first savers will be able to benefit from the funds in 2004? Can you ensure that there will be enough housing on the market, all over Slovenia, to prevent an abnormal rise in housing prices and thus ensure equal entry into single life for younger generations as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u13	Your Honor! Housing construction, housing scheme, especially for young people, is one of the priorities we have set in previous years. I was the initiator of this program. I think it is very important that we establish some normal funding and the possibility for all citizens, especially young people, to come to housing with some acceptable conditions, i.e. the possibility of buying apartments. So, on the one hand, what you're saying is that maybe there will be too much resources and too much housing demand, that is, a positive result of these measures, in short, the possibility of buying apartments, so they have been created, and this is the result of our efforts over the past period. On the other hand, it depends, of course, on the type of factors involved in housing supply. Some factors may be influenced or partially influenced by the government. Not to many factors. And, of course, we expect the market to work here too, so that more demand will lead, perhaps not completely in the first step, but also in the second step, to a greater supply of apartments. What the government is trying to do is to simplify the various procedures, simplify the possibilities for building permits as well. To this end, we are implementing simplification procedures and initiating a series of activities. After all, this is what our so-called programme to reduce or remove bureaucratic barriers is aimed at. In short, we want to simplify these procedures. Of course, after all, we still need an active and up-to-date construction operation, which then has to play its part. We expect that this should not be a problem because the construction operation needs work. However, if, of course, it wants to maintain some monopolistic relationship in this market, the government will also have to cut into this market with different anti-monopoly measures in order to establish some normal competition, including between construction providers and pressure on price cuts, housing prices. All together, it is a process that we have encouraged, which we will monitor and, of course, less respond further with the necessary measures, if necessary. Certainly a passport in this welcome proposal, including your suggestions, and a common activity where it is necessary to really reach our common goal: as many apartments as possible at the most favourable price for our citizens, and especially for young families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Would you like to ask an additional question? No, no, no. Then I invite you to the word mag. Janez Drobnič asked a question. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u15	Welcome to Mr. President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Drnovsku! Nice greetings to the other government representatives and colleagues and colleagues in the hall! For the fifth year, we have been facing a budgetary deficit that continues to grow steadily. There's an increase in external debt at a dangerous rate. This year's 37%. In 1994, it amounted to 52 billion tolars, and at the end of last year it was 508 billion tolars. Some call it Yugoslav syndrome. Inflation has begun to rise. We had 1.1% in March. By the way, Bulgaria has 0.1%. Prices have risen sharply over the last period, especially the basic needs of life. Municipal services also up to 60%, post office 19%, telephone services, petrol, compulsory car insurance, rail passenger transport, gas, remote heating, child care in kindergartens, urban passenger transport, food products and so on, not to mention. These changes are still felt by our citizens in their pockets, at least for their unchanged incomes, either pensions, cash aid or wages, they get less and less in trade. But to make matters worse, rising prices did not affect all social strata the same way. It is quite clear that the basic necessities of life, which each Slovenian family must have, are above average. Luxury goods are being auctioned more slowly and inflation has been officially published very misleading. It is clear that the government does not control key economic and financial levers. With such a financial card, which is now being drawn, we are increasingly moving away from Europe and, in fact, we are cancelling our candidacy for the European Union. This year's draft budget is full of secrets. It is clear, however, that last year he was unrealistic and politically oriented. Now, however, key gaps that were unknown to the public have emerged. It is not known how much overload has already been accepted, how many public sector salaries will you book this year at all. Mr. Drnovšek! You're running a big coalition. You have 3/4 of all votes in Parliament. It is obvious that this coalition brings you only great problems and not quality for decisions. The fact that the situation is not simple also shows the opinions of institutions far from being guided by the right option. It is not to ignore the opinions expressed by Dr. Drinovac, Dr. Križanič, and others. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! As long as I get to know these numbers, this can beat the edge of the bell. What do you think, Mr. Drnovšek? What will you do as Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr Member, for a very large question. I'll try to answer some of your assessments in a row. First of all, the public debt of Slovenia is by no means a Yugoslav syndrome. Rather, it is Western countries' syndrome, perhaps the European Union, including the United States of America, which in most cases have a higher public debt in relation to a social product than Slovenia has. Slovenia, with a 30% share of public debt in the social product, deviates positively from most countries. We know that some countries, Belgium or Italy are in debt for about 100 per cent according to their social product. The mastrich criterion for entry into the euro area is in fact 60 per cent of the social product, i.e. the share of public debt in the social product. Slovenia is far below these limits and, of course, far below being critical. The fact is that all these countries, at a certain stage of their development, financed either infrastructure or other projects, financed simply by borrowing and that only recently, for the last two years, when the European Monetary Union was established, began to harmonise and reduce their public financial deficits and stabilise their public debts so that they would no longer grow at a point that is on average more critical or higher than Slovenia. We are aware that this issue should not be underestimated in the long run and that, of course, it would be too easy to reject it if we were better than most and this question is not relevant. We are aware that, despite all of this, public finances must be monitored and balanced as soon as possible, despite objective needs, despite objective development needs. Nevertheless, our goal and our desire to stabilize them are ours. We have also said this in this budget and in our plans for the future. In preparing the 2001 budget, we have largely come from existing trends, simply from the existing situation. In this short period - we had to begin practically at the time of the government's appearance - in fact, more than some way of maintaining these trends and their certain dimensions is not possible, consolidation is not possible this year. For us all, not only for the government, for the national assembly and for everyone in Slovenia, but the question of how to proceed. We need to ask ourselves some questions, of course, about wage movements. In fact, I do not agree with them to start with us, or to be left behind, to have a greater poverty. On the contrary. The data show that we are better than the European Union, that the spread in Slovenia is not increasing to the detriment of poverty, but that the situation is even improving in relation to the European Union and that real wages are increasing all the time. The problem is, they're probably growing too fast and not growing too fast. So our problem today is how to slightly stifle wage growth, and not how to raise them in order to make the standard higher. The standard is relatively favourable compared to other countries. This shows, after all, the index of human development recently published by the United Nations and where Slovenia stands firmly and is highly placed. A number of indicators show that our comparative position is good. This study notes, however, a particular feature which, of course, we see in Parliament and in the public as well, that our perception, our view of how we actually live, is worse than reality, than those real indicators and than international comparisons. Well, Slovenians always underestimate our achievements, as they are if I make it easier. Well, no matter what, things are never good enough or good enough, and I'm taking this position on my own. Now we have the question of how to proceed. Limiting certain trends, especially wage increases in the public sector. I'll admit it. This is one of the fundamental issues of the coming years. The question is how to proceed because this is also a question of the developed world, how, given the rise in the average age of the population, to deal with pension relations. This is a question that threatens the whole of the European Union in some way and for which there are no real solutions at the table for once. So, despite all that we have taken some steps, this issue is not definitively resolved and is open to further discussion. The question of which projects, which important infrastructure projects, and to what extent to which extent to continue to lead. All this is what I intend to open and we have already begun the debate, but we will definitely deepen it with this, as soon as it is adopted. Let us hope that these days with the 2001 budget. We are about to begin the preparation and discussions on the budget for 2002 and 2003, when we are actually trying to answer some of these questions together with you and to set priorities, and also in our country to agree on what sustainable wage growth is, after all, so that the competitiveness of our economy will not be compromised and how to ensure that the trends so far go forward. The trends so far, the movements so far, are positive, and growth is good. Last year's annual growth of the social product is 4.8%, which is even more than the long-term average when we have 4.2% of average economic growth in the previous 8 years. So it was even higher in 2000. These are good results and even the full macroeconomic position of Slovenia is still good. But we need to answer some questions for the future, some questions for the next few years. The moves we're going to draw now will probably reflect in a few years. I think this is also an important moment of some common thinking about Slovenia, to answer some questions. We are constantly looking for the optimal relationship: on the one hand, between the competitiveness of the economy, on the other hand between real income, wages and the quality of life that we can afford at this level of competitiveness. So if one goes faster than the other, then there can be imbalances, tensions, pressures and unoptimal developments. So I repeat, the development so far from this point of view has been, I think, balanced enough. We will try to answer these questions and deal with them mainly in the 2002 budget and in the 2003 debate, first in the government. I think it's very soon in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Anybody want to ask me an extra question? [[Yeah.]] Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u19	An additional question, Mr President: do you still insist that this year's inflation will be within 4 to 5%, given that we have used practically half of it in the first quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u20	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u21	Inflation has its legitimacy. Although my insistence may have a minor influence, it may not be essential. She insists, and I want her to be as low as possible. According to my assessment, we've been talking a little too much about inflation in Slovenia lately. And in some ways, we are already generating one part of inflationary expectations, because inflation is also psychology. Inflation expectations then affect business decisions. Everyone's talking about inflation. Everyone's saying that boinflation is higher this year. Then it is better to place our prices slightly higher than slightly lower. It's a famous phenomenon in the world. We have brought inflation quite successfully to a single level. We know that then there has been a stalemate or a slight rise in last year, mainly due to the external causes, prices, especially energy, oil and also the impact of the value added tax introduced last year. Some of these effects are being carried away by now. Well, some price alignments with Europeans, with some normal, long-term sustainable prices, have contributed little. But our firm aim is, of course, to reduce inflation from now on by various measures. On the one hand, fiscal policy, on the other hand, exactly what I was saying, with a sustainable wage policy. If we can agree and maintain a sustainable wage policy, then much will be done. The Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, will share its policy with income and fiscal policy, so monetary policy is likely to play its part. And I repeat, our intention is not to erase inflation in this way; that this would then mean a significant decline in growth, some general constraint in the economy and in the country; but in a way where we would still be able to maintain relatively high growth and, of course, re-establish a trend of falling inflation. But if you look at inflationary movements in Europe, because of these external shocks, for example. Ireland or Spain, as inflation has doubled in the last year as well as in some other countries of the European Union. It's getting bigger everywhere. Of course from different levels, from lower levels, but if we look relatively, all these external shocks have played their part. From now on, I think, therefore, if there are no negative external shocks, all the conditions for inflation in Slovenia to gradually decline and to re-establish this trend of gradual decline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Comrade Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor. Can you rule out yourself, Mr. Prime Minister? Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would ask you, Prime Minister, if you are sure that Slovenia is still a sovereign country. Mr Farhat is signing petitions that no longer allow Slovenians to have an anti-fascist monument. And that's why no one in the country, no one in the government, is protesting. Flags are blessed where the president of the National Assembly may also be present because of coalition coordination. The state doesn't say anything. The Americans, the embassy, send instructions to the MPs of the National Assembly before they go to Cuba to do what they should do, who they should meet, what they should say and what they should spy on. And the Slovenian state does nothing. On the other hand, we are like Ukraine when we still do not find the Major, the Officer, the Lost Officer, and we are not looking for him very much. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia for religious communities spends 22 million tolls of budget money per month for seven religious communities, irrespective of the 31. On the other hand, we do not want to do what we can to prove our sovereignty. The Ministry of Economy, in particular its two successful workers, Drago Bitenc and Igor Krašovec, have been unable for more than 10 years to draw up a law that could be classified by Slovenia as European countries, since all members of the European Union are members of the Cyprus, so-called the Commission of International Permanence pour éprover les arms a fen portif, in short those organisations that legalise and regulate the branding of weapons. Members of this organization are already the Soviet Union as a whole, the former Soviet Union, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Preparations are under way this year for the reception of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Slovenia has done almost nothing in 10 years. Mr. President, what do you make of this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u25	In fact, it's different, given what you said. As far as this law is concerned, I would leave the matter to the Minister of the Interior. As far as this marriage is concerned, let it tell you what the situation is. I would try, although it is very difficult to answer your question about the sovereignty of Slovenia, whether Slovenia is a sovereign state almost 10 years after its creation. I think it is. As much as a state can be sovereign in a world that is quite interdependent. Practically perfect, absolute sovereignty in this world is gone. Perfect sovereignty would also mean some perfect great isolation. Of all the others and in some ways North Korea may be the most sovereign country, or maybe Cuba. And if we look at it from this point of view, we may not really be the most sovereign. However, we are comparable to many countries, especially in Europe, where, at least so far, we have wanted to compare and try to establish some kind of relationship and life that people in these countries, different countries of the European Union or wider Europe have. And I think we're doing what we're doing. Slovenia has a relatively small weighting, given its size and the number of people in the world, but given its small weighting according to these objective criteria, I think it has a relatively good impact, or perhaps even greater impact than it would have on our size alone. And I also think it's a relatively good reputation in the world. And our sovereignty, after all, if we ask ourselves what it is. To a large extent, I also associate it with this, that is, that we are safe, that is, a safe country and that we live just as we think we can and must live. Our sovereignty is greatly strengthened by our having some reputation for having good relations with our neighbors. Let's say they have as much relationship as possible that we have a normal relationship with the international community, that we have no conflicts, that we have no extreme situations. I think we're on our way. In recent times, we have been dealing with some issues, including neighbouring Austria, I think quite positively. We're with Italy, too. With Croatia, we have some open questions that we are also trying to resolve. This all means in some way strengthening the international situation of Slovenia and, in some sense, also its sovereignty. The European Union is at the door, or you are not a great supporter of it, but for once we have decided. We have such political decisions in Slovenia so far. It is clear, however, that the European Union is a denial of a certain part of sovereignty, in order for Europe to co-ordinate its objectives together, to live together in some way and in this way also to prevent conflicts and the tensions that have emerged throughout history among the very sovereign European countries - when they were absolutely sovereign - have been constantly coming together in constant wars and European history is full of war between these sovereign countries. Thus, Europe is establishing a link that is supposed to grow beyond such intensity and conflict, and this is also at the cost of derogating from a certain part of the sovereignty of all European countries. Such ones are much larger than Slovenia, such as France, Great Britain or Germany and so on. As far as the question is concerned, if you have alluded to the question, that is, the Vatican Agreement or some way of political access to religions or churches: the difference between us is that I simply, for example, do not want to make policy out of this, but to establish some balance, a balance, in the country. Somehow we'll just forget that we're not going to deal with churches, with religions, but everyone will do what's right and we'll feel that way, because I think we feel sovereign enough, I'll use that expression so that we can even be generous or tolerant, in some cases, and that we're not trying to sharpen these relationships at all costs and make a policy out of it Based on the knowledge that this in no way harms our real sovereignty or in no way threatens some principles, our life, our country, our constitutionality. We're trying to do this. Above all, we do not want to make policies out of these issues, and perhaps also from the differences between us. That's the key difference. Such policies always lead to tension, can lead to such and different conflicts, after all, to wars - Slovenian history is full of it. If we are trying to bridge this conflict and this division of Slovenia on such grounds that it has dragged on over the last 50 years, but not in a way that we can build on one thing or another, but simply try to move on and try to grow it. This is what we want to achieve, including with these moves, even with such an agreement. I don't think that's too bad. It is true, then, that the basis for making such a policy is lost from these differences and ultimately from the past. That's it. But I probably didn't answer, of course, in your expectation of your answer, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u26	You're right about that. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. First, Mr Prime Minister, the part of the question that you have not answered will be answered by the Ministry of the Economy, because this is the sector that concerns this matter. Otherwise, you are talking about our sovereignty and comparability with European countries. What kind of country donated a spy van to a neighbor and then acted so senselessly and foolishly forward? What country in Europe can we compare with when we do not want to find Major Troche and when we hide information on these matters? What country in Europe can we compare with because of the problem of arms trafficking? What country can we compare with in Europe when we do not know where the weapons from Postojna are yet? And there's a whole bunch of these things. What European country can we compare with under such a Vatican agreement as you are preparing? Actually, after all, I only agree with you here when you say we should be generous to the church. We're generous to the church, too. Slovenia has an institute called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is what must be respected. And let's not replace politics with religion with politics to church. We're talking about the Roman Catholic Church, which is absolutely privileged here, against religion, against all other religions. And that's why I don't agree to saying, let's go over some of the frameworks. If we want to grow these frameworks, then we will grow them so that they will all be equal in Slovenia. And in Slovenia the Roman Catholic Church is not equal, because it does not pay taxes and does not intend to pay them in the future. So the comparability with, as you said, South Korea or South Korea or Cuba does not stand. Nor is comparability with other European countries, but I did not compare Slovenia, not with Cuba, nor with Korea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Would you like to further explain your views, Mr President, given the additional question? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u29	I don't want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. This concludes the part of this agenda item, where opposition Members and Members ask questions directly to the Prime Minister and continue to ask questions to the government's representatives in the following order: Janez Janša, Bojan Kontic, Maria Possonec, Davorin Terčon and Franci Rokavec. First of all, he has the word of a colleague, Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u31	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. This year, a few days ago, 11th year since the first free elections in Slovenia. During all this time, the Slovenian state has not settled the issue of ownership of former sociopolitical organisations. The rest of the former Yugoslavia or Serbia held elections at the end of last year. In January, the Serbian Parliament passed a law regulating this issue. Thus, Slovenia remains not only the only country in the territory of the former Yugoslavia that has not yet settled this issue, but also the only country between all the transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe, where this issue is still unresolved. On the basis of this issue, the key issue of union property is. Free trade unions are informal, not claiming it, but actually owning the co-ownership of the former association of Socialist Unions of Slovenia. It's property that's measured, which weighs a few billion tolars. When we first proposed a law to settle this union property issue by dividing it into all trade unions, the government, I think, in 1994, replied that it was necessary to give trade unions an opportunity to agree first. They had conversations that lasted a few years, and then they stopped. Now it's been seven years and no deal has been made. Despite the fact that all unions, except one, are interested in such an arrangement. Of course, for such an agreement, it is not an interested union that now has all this billion-dollar property. In the previous term, because the agreements had stalled, a Member law had been introduced to try to resolve the issue. The coalition agreement, which was signed before the appointment of the government, now states that the coalition will withdraw it from the agenda. I ask the Minister for Labour, the Government or the Minister for Labour what he intends to do to finally settle this issue so that it does not remain open. This open issue will not solve certain property transit matters, which are also a condition for entry into the European Union. It is also a question of the free organisation of trade unions and the provision of conditions for their work. I am asking the government, after seven years ago, that there was an agreement that it was necessary to give the unions some time to agree on their own - this did not happen - what will they do now, given that for a law already in the procedure, the coalition is proposing to reject it. Is he going to propose his own marriage? Is he going to do something else? What will the government do to finally resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. You've been asking questions to the Ministry of Labour. Do you want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u33	So, as has already been said, we have been working for a long time to come up with an agreement between the unions. We're still trying to do this eventually. We'll give you a longer answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Bojan Kontic, his colleague Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, other government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi area. Janez the Ripper. For some time, storage problems have been known in Slovenia, as well as the anticipated thermal treatment or processing of meat-bone and feathered flour. I ask the Minister whether a decision has already been made regarding the disposal of these wastes, or, rather, where, when, and in what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Comrade Kotnic. Mr. Secretary Digacz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. As you all know, we inform the public about this and organize press conferences. We've got a pilot burn planned at the Chestnut power plant, if we're lucky, next week. Unfortunately, it didn't work because this requires a specific technique for inflating bone-meat flour. Special care should be taken in this regard, since, if we were to run this through the bars for normal coal dust or wood dust, these nozzles could somehow be glued to or shut down and then, of course, even the plant would be damaged. Well, this is right now the only open option in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. All other industrial hotspots where this could be incinerated also need doinstalation of the appropriate technology. This applies to Termoelectric Trbovlje II as is the case with Salonit Anhovo, as is the case with Cementary Trbovlje. Other options in Slovenia, at least to a greater extent I do not know. We have tried, as you know, in Clay Nazorje, where this has behaved quite well, but Glin Nazarje has too much dust emissions, not because of the incineration of bone flour, but because of its existing technology. So that, according to our legislation, it is not possible to conclude more permanent contracts, we could do another test there, but to permanently solve the problem of incineration in Clay Nazarje would not be possible, because earlier this company or this factory should bring into life the rehabilitation program that we require of them, due to these emissions of dust. Incinerator Lek in Lendava, or it can smoke without problem, but it has very low capacity and does not solve the problem of daily production in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, there is only one possibility of temporary storage or a potential export agreement, and exports are not possible overnight, but because they are not dangerous waste exports, but still waste, in accordance with the Basel Convention, requires the consent of the countries through which transit is carried out and the countries in which this incineration would take place. As you know, as we have informed the public at large, we are talking with Ecoles from Ptuj about the transport of these quantities, which are now stored in our house, to the incinerator in Belgium, but such transport takes at least three to four weeks, because all the relevant permits need to be obtained. Therefore, in short, there is no other solution, and we also continue to store this instant of daily production and are, of course, looking for solutions, more lasting solutions. If everything is lucky and the attempt at the Šostanj thermal power plant succeeds, of course, the process itself and all the results will be made available to the public, then perhaps in the Šostanj thermal power plant we could arrange it, otherwise there will still be a unresolved problem with the already stored flour, because the Šostanj thermal power plant with the technology installed at this moment cannot smoke flour that is already broken. The one that is stored, however, is crushed, can only roast a plentiful flour, which is fresh flour, so we are talking about daily or casual production or in a few days of old flour. That's what this is all about. Otherwise, we are preparing a very comprehensive response, which, after all, was requested from us by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances on the basis of a citizen's request or initiative after Miha Jazbinšek's last name, and we will, of course, describe and describe all of this very extensively and accurately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please, if colleagues and colleagues, as well as government representatives, do not disturb Members and Ministers when answering questions. A colleague of Maria Pozsonec, a colleague of Davorin Terchón, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! I'd like to ask you some questions! First, I ask the Director of VURS, Mr Kovac or the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Booth. There is so much talk about being as concerned with human health as possible that we are safe from animal infectious diseases. Unfortunately, though, I was given a different experience at the collection center of the fallen animals in Murska Sobota. In the center of the city, in the shadow of marble palaces and in the immediate vicinity of the processing industry of Pomurka, I reiterate, in the immediate vicinity of the processing industry collect dead animals under the warm sky. All I saw on this spot were huge amounts of brown iron, but I couldn't tell if that iron had any functional function, or if it was just because of the decoration. In this place they collect as many as 1/4 of all animals killed in Slovenia. I want to know where the percentage of animals in this area is so high that it is not justified either by the size of the area or by the number of animals in this area. To build a hygienic facility, you'd need 114 million SIT. Therefore, I propose that the Ministry of Agriculture for these purposes find the necessary resources in its 2001 budget, as every competent inspector should close such an facility because it is dangerous for the environment. I am also asking the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a second question. It refers to a provision of a law that deals with farm pensions that require pension beneficiaries to pay or even sell land, since otherwise they do not get those fights for 20,000 dollars as much as that pension. On the basis of our constitution, everyone can have a land and why it should not be logical to have a farmer who has usually inherited it from his parents. I believe that this provision of the law is unconstitutional, illegal, inhuman, because people are bound to the earth. I therefore propose that the Ministry of Agriculture initiate a procedure to amend this article of the law. Or at least let him get away with some sort of order. However, I refer the third question to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The unemployment rate in the Land administration is very high. In the mixed area of Gorička it is even higher. I am interested in the exact number of the unemployment rate in these areas. Furthermore, how much money has been allocated to reduce unemployment there and how many jobs have been opened in these areas. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Ministers Booth and Dimovski were summoned. First Minister for Agriculture, Mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u41	The hall is beautiful. The landfill in Murska Sobota is actually problematic and should have been repaired by last year. Because of some unencumbered construction documents and so on or before, I apologize, but the investment has not been made. This means that appropriate procedures must be carried out. And in this case, if that is the case, it is possible to start with parts in 2001. As far as the question of the farmer's pension is concerned, I think this issue is practically addressed to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs. Because this refers to the law in the field of the Second Ministry. I'd add two things on my own. One is that the basic purpose is certainly not wrong and is correct and is the same as everywhere in Europe, or at least in the developed world. In fact, the promotion of the transfer of ownership of farms to younger ones, to descendants, to daughters, to sons, or to those who are handed over to them by the farm. This means that the main problem why agriculture in Slovenia is so far behind is that ownership of land is acquired only after 50 years, or even later, when, in fact, they do not really have any big ideas about any major changes and about any necessary adjustments to the needs of the market. So the years when they hope and actually the most productive, or I'll say, productive, of course, can be a lifetime, but when he hopes to start a different way of doing it than his ancestors did, it's just too late. This means that the purpose of this law is, in fact, good and proper: to encourage the transfer of land to younger generations, when ownership is considered not only a burden but also an excellent potential to be made out of it. We have too many cases where in the Slovenian countryside people simply can't do anything because they can't do anything when they want to, because the owner, even if it's their father, may be opposed to new investments, but the changes that are generally necessary, but when the offspring gets their own land, they usually don't have any special interest. It is true, though, whether it may be a procession that should be necessary here and whether it does not indicate a second thought, in spite of everything. If that is the goal, it will certainly be right after all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u42	Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u43	Perhaps if we complement it from the point of view of the law itself and, of course, these provisions, which constitute an implementing provision for the implementation of Article 156 of the law on pension and disability insurance. You should say maybe two. For the first time, some land is left to the farmer in these cases. It is a hectare that can remain in case of surrender or surrender to the farmer himself. Secondly, in the event that this transfer cannot be carried out, it shall be considered as if the transfer had actually been carried out. So it is possible that if the transfer of agricultural land was not possible, then the pension could still be obtained so as not to interfere with someone's rights. With regard to the very purpose of the law, Mr. Minister, you have quite clearly explained. But there are problems, and we have been warned about them. And it is possible, to the extent that such a decision would also be taken by the legislator, i.e. the national assembly, to either supplement that provision, or to actually provide for a longer transitional period for its implementation. By thinking about the changes that we are also preparing at the Ministry to amend this provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Dimovski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. It is true that the unemployment rate in the region covered by the District Community or the Murska Sobota District Unit is one of the highest in Slovenia, representing exactly 16.6%, while the share for Slovenia as a whole is 11.9%. When you asked me very specifically about the number that is actually included in individual programmes, I also have before me this precise calculation, so that I can specifically serve you with this data. On the creation of new jobs in the Murska Sobota District Unit, in particular for Lendava, during the last period there were 160 and precisely 162 of them, following the so-called Article 48a, reimbursement, which means the reimbursement of contributions 120 and the promotion of self-employment 42. Almost 800 people have been involved to obtain full integration into the active employment policy, as a whole range of measures taken by the Ministry together with the Employment Office. In particular, it was spent or spent from the budget through the employment agency of SIT 200 million or more than 196 million from the total of 12 billion used in 2000 for the whole of Slovenia. There's also this information to get some kind of comparative image. For the area of the Murska Sobota District Unit, approximately 1 billion of these funds were allocated to active employment policy. I would like to say this in the end, as regards the planned changes in the field of active employment policy, that we are focused on giving greater attention to those regions with higher unemployment or unemployment rates in relation to the average of Slovenia. This will be reflected in the various rules that we are preparing or specific instruments for active employment policy. This information, because they were mentioned orally, we will also send you, so you will also have the whole picture, because it's just numbers, sometimes it's a little hard to remember them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. As colleagues Terčon and Ašič have changed the order, he has the word of his colleague Ašić, a colleague of Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Just say hello. My question concerns the whole government, because as far as I know, the problem that I'm asking is the problem of multiple departments. The theme is the Schengen border or the establishment of an external border of the European Community at our southern border. Since April 1998, intensive preparations have been under way within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate activities to establish security customs and inspection controls at our southern border or the future external borders of the European Community. I am also aware that, already this year, the government has taken a number of measures to accelerate these activities and, of course, there is also a fact that is not exactly encouraging, and this is that in the ten years following the independence of Slovenia, nothing has actually happened on our southern border, that the situation is as practical as it was when the independence was, that we are faced with weak infrastructure-equipped international and also interstate border crossings, that communications between the two countries take place at the same time as we expected certain areas in Slovenia and certain parts of Slovenian settlements to be still unavailable on Slovenian roads, both from Haloz through the Obstetel, Gorjanci, to the Occult and to the Loška Valley. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how the project is being implemented to establish security, customs and inspection controls at the external borders of the European Community. I would like to know whether this project also takes into account the rehabilitation of the situation, which is also evident today and should have been resolved long ago without this project. And I would also like to know, of course, whether the project also takes into account the necessary investments in other infrastructure, which will need to be developed in parallel with the border control points themselves and the entire border regime, and this is infrastructure in the area of housing, education, kindergartens and, of course, all that will be necessary for the new people of the police and customs, who are expected to arrive at this border in the near future, to have adequate housing and other conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. You asked the government a question. I think you're a decent couple of ministers. Minister Bavcar wants to answer, and also Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, Mr Auschwitz, I am in charge of coordination in the government, ministerial coordination for the establishment and establishment of the Schengen border. Let me say that the Committee on the Economy, the Government Committee on the Economy, today approved or considered a regulation on the location plan of the motorway section of Krška Vas - Obrežje, which we have succeeded in three months since we started doing this, what we were unable to do in four years before. In this way, the first border checkpoint is before we begin to prepare everything necessary for the preparation of the documentation and then, of course, also the construction of this border crossing, which will be one of the key, one of the three roads and four, if I include the border crossing, the railway border crossing of the Age. Pears and Jelshanes have recently identified the problem or problems of the microlocation of these passages in coordination or meeting with the Croatian side. At the same time, we are also preparing all the relevant material for us to be able to make these transitions, which are, of course, passages through which people will enter, not only in Slovenia, but also practically in all the countries of the European Union, in a way that we can control goods and people. This means a substantial investment contribution, part of the preparation of this extremely important investment stock already contained in this year's budget. The environment that has made it possible for us to deal with these issues more quickly is that we have decided in the government that the common investor will be serving the common services of the government. This would reduce the type of meeting with different investors. But of course we have some problems; for after a recent tour of the border crossings of neighbouring Austria, where it is carrying out Schengen control, we have, of course, found a series of things that show consideration for us. Above all, the fact that we are probably already making these border crossings for a limited period of time, so that this investment and the construction method and the like cannot follow all the usual standards in this area. Let me say that I expect the adoption of this location regulation by the government, this week, to establish conditions on Thursday, also thanks to the extremely transportable part of the municipal authorities in Brežice, so that we can continue to implement the plan relatively quickly in this area. Our plan is to train these border crossings by the end of 2002, although of course it is known that we are entering Schengen for a while or at least a short period of time. [[year, two]] After full membership in the European Union. At least so far, the usual practice has been for all countries that have entered the European Union. Some Scandinavian countries have recently joined this system or this mode of control. This plan, which you are talking about by the government, also covers all other border crossings and the green border. True, you say that during the ten years of transitions that were literally made overnight, we have not arranged. The problem with the eleven international border crossings is that they need to be legalised, literally legalised. They were set up in a way that could only be set by a country under conditions of retreat or departure, independence from the Federation. And at that time, it was less done to settle all these issues. At the same time, we will also address other issues, particularly the issue I think 34 other border crossings and, of course, a comprehensive green border protection plan. The Schengen Plan, the so-called Schengen Action Plan, is being prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. My colleague Bohinc can tell you more about this. At the same time, it is drawing up a special plan to protect the green border, because we want to revive some ideas on special treatments, particularly with regard to development in this area, infrastructure and so on, because we are trying to come from a starting point, that it is necessary to retain vital territory, which is, of course, largely started by negative demographic trends and so on. The border crossing points of Brnik and Luka are not particularly difficult in terms of compliance with Schengen standards and we estimate that we will not have any major problems in this area. Whereas, as regards the transfer of a number of officials, police officers, customs officers, veterinarians, persons who will carry out medical, phytosanitary protection, a final decision on the number has not yet been taken at this time. We are waiting for the Ministry of the Interior action plan. This was aimed at some so-called closer cooperation projects, or in the police jargon of "twinings", which we had with neighbouring countries, Austria and also Germany in this area, because we have tried to gain some experience from the German and Austrian administrations in this area. By counting on this and on the basis of our own assessments, of course, we will be able to establish full control over our external borders as we enter the European Union. This project, which deals with the resettlement of a certain number of people, entails some additional problems affecting their family members. For the number of these people must be multiplied by a certain number. We also believe that the experience of Austria, where, say, workers drive from 50 to 70 km to one side to work on such border crossings, with the experience of sharing working time, maintenance and so on, can partially compensate inputs to infrastructure that would be necessary for this. We will therefore try to use as flexible solutions as possible in this area, and we hope that in a relatively short period of time we will be able to draw up this special plan before the government, where all the elements you are asking me will be included. I think it is important to say that at this point we are so far away that at all these exclusive border crossings, including Dobo's, for example, which brings along a series of changes in infrastructure, including easier traffic and so on, we are studying this. In particular, we are trying to partially compensate in this area for the relatively high costs involved. So I am counting on such a programme to move on to other questions, which we do not have an answer to today, in a relatively short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Minister Bavcar. Minister Dr. Rado Bohinc. Please. Can you turn it off, Minister Bavčar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I can only attach to what my friend Bavčar has already said. And I add that there is a detailed plan in the Ministry of the Interior to introduce demanding Schengen standards of protection. The security aspect is the responsibility and responsibility of our ministry. These standards were designed or introduced to us in the context of two so-called "twining" projects, training projects for border control. These projects are based on some of the findings which concern, in particular, the necessary measures. Among these most urgent measures, I consider it important to raise a particular human resources issue. By 2004, the number of police officers should be increased in accordance with these standards for the number 2100 or between 2100 and 2500, depending on the extent to which we will satisfy the full systematisation envisaged by the Schengen standards. In this account or within this plan, after a government decision last December, the number of employees increased by 480 and in the coming years by about that much annually. The human resources part is one of the standards, which, of course, is far from the only one, but brings with it many accompanying consequences in other areas. I would mention a very demanding project of the Schengen Information System, which is related to additional information equipment and additional training of police officers to handle this system. There's work on that, too. I would mention the number of training programmes that are also running in other areas related to the introduction of Schengen standards. The police also have a detailed plan for the necessary investments in facilities and equipment, especially after years. For this year too, such a plan, very detailed, exists. I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members and Members to the fact that we are somehow in agreement with the mayors of all municipalities bordering or at the southern border or the future southern European border to present these plans to them, so that they can base and formulate development plans specifically in the spatial sense of building neighbourhoods and so on. In short, we will try to encourage with accurate information on the consequences of the local authorities, too, in order to include them in the changes that will take place on this basis. I would also say that a specific project of the Green Borders project is being created in the ministries of transport and communications and home affairs. This is a very important issue of many border communications with neighbouring Croatia, which are currently not protected or regulated. And I promise myself that the government will take concrete steps to deal with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The position is that Minister Kopač, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u53	I just want to let you know, honourable Member of the Union and all other Members or Members of Parliament, something that may not be directly related to your question, but is still in some kind of a direct relationship. On Friday last week, we met with our Croatian colleague, Boža Kovacevic, and managed to agree on a number of concrete things, but unfortunately this agreement did not find any special reflection in the media, so perhaps only briefly on road links. It was agreed on Friday, and this is now, I understand that a fixed and final agreement that, in short, a categorisation of road links between countries has been agreed, which has been a major problem so far, because there was no idea where a road or road of any order would run. It is now agreed that there will be a highway connection across the border crossing of Gruškovje, a highway connection across the Jelšana border crossing, a motorway connection across the border crossing of the Obrežje. It is agreed that the main road will go, I am sorry, I think that the main road across the border crossing of Dragoj and not across the border crossing of Sečovlje, which was a long-standing problem for Slovenia and here we managed to establish our interest. It is agreed that a fast road from Varaždin will go through Ormož to Ptuj, which was primarily Croatian interest, but I understand, or I am sure that Member Trofenik will also be satisfied with such a solution. The only point remaining open is the status of the link between Karlovac and Novi Metlika, where Croatia insists that this link be treated as a fast road, and we are more in favour of this being treated as a main road, which is one order lower. Well, I think it is also important that the motorway that will cross the Jelshana border is the link, especially the written part of the agreement that we have concluded on Friday, which will end the Adriatic-Ionian highway by joining the existing highway between Ljubljana and Kopro somewhere near Postojna, which will in fact also represent the completion of the motorway towards Ljubljana or against Trieste. Well, in this way, this agreement, which I think is extremely important to me, so that we can all draw the same categories of roads now, both on our side and on the Croatian side of the border, and also coordinate specific border crossings, their micro-locations and so on, this has been achieved in Friday, and of course I am pleased to inform Members and Members of the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Does he want an additional question with three comprehensive answers? Please, Comrade Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u55	In fact, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the very comprehensive answers of the three ministers. However, since he is obviously here, some other ministers, probably Mr Preseknik, could say something else, and perhaps another one - this is a broad area - I am taking the initiative to come to Parliament, once the government finally adopts it, on the competent working bodies and to discuss them thoroughly and to get to know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The government also deserves praise. The next question will be asked by colleague Franci Rokavec, a colleague of Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! First, I refer my question to the Minister for Information Society, Dr Paulet Gantar. In March, we read from the media that the Post Slovenia Supervisory Board adopted a financial plan for this year, which foresees a loss of SIT 500 million. Of course, the amount of loss is in some way the amount of loss of last year's production loss Post Slovenia, although this loss was significantly lower than planned. But despite all of this, because it was also one of the reasons, or the only other tangible, partially entrenched herbs of Mr. Minister, for insisting and defending the exchange at the head of Post Slovenia at that time, I am, in fact, interested in your opinion on the proposed financial plan adopted by the Supervisory Board? And if you agree with the proposed financial plan? If not, then the question arises further, which measures will you take as minister or as government, as in some way a representative of the owner, to the Supervisory Board of Post Slovenia? Will she propose a possible replacement of the Supervisory Board? I'd like an answer to that. And the second question, or this is more of an initiative, is for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Indeed, there has already been a few speeches today by Mrs Pozsoncheva, a fellow Member of Parliament, regarding the difficulties in pensioning farmers. In December, Parliament adopted an amendment to the Disability Pension Insurance Act, and in some ways also committed the government and the competent ministry to draw up appropriate solutions by the end of March, in particular in two segments, that is, on the segment, how to eliminate illogicality in the higher contributions shown to independent entrepreneurs? And second. How can the issue of the retirement of farmers be mitigated in some way through a transitional period? In addition, we have recently adopted an amendment to the Social Protection Act, which foresees a new level of social assistance for the most needy, which is now set at the level set out in Law 34 000 or in full application of almost 38 000. Now, in a way, there's an emerging biology against the other two, social transfers by the pension law. By the way, the current height of a farmer's pension is about 30,000. And the current height of the so-called state pension is about 23,000. I propose that this imbalance, which has taken place with regard to the implementation of the amendments and the completion of the Social Protection Act, be brought into line as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u58	Question and initiative. First question to the competent minister. Dr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, I can answer that my opinion on this adopted financial plan for mail is bad or negative and that we have already met with some representatives of the Supervisory Board, where I have informed them that we cannot accept such a plan, of course, and that some of the items are in here, but of course I am referring to the so-called second pension pillar, which is supposed to be the promise of even the previous Director, but these are no longer excuses, cannot be included in this project and increase the loss. By rejecting this plan and already, of course, imposing it on the supervisory board to draw up a new, realistic plan, where it is likely that all loss will not be avoided. But it can be reliably reduced by more than half or, as I say, by about 2/3. This, of course, will have to be done. But it is true, as you said, that if this is not respected, certain measures can also be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your answer. Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs want to be defined for the initiative? Mrs. Belopavlovič, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u61	We will certainly, as has already been said, look at the scale for the assessment of contributions to self-employed persons, as well as this 156th Article, which has previously asked or given a similar initiative to that of the Member, Mrs Possonce. I must say that the analysis of the implementation of the law has been quite difficult work. We have an analysis somehow in that last phase so that we can send it to Parliament as soon as possible. And the next step would be to prepare changes and to supplement the law. I must say, this is not such a huge change. I think that these changes or interventions into marriage, perhaps some more technical nature, will be much more extensive and that this is more extensive work than we have probably all imagined together in the beginning. With regard only to the initiative to harmonise these benefits with social security benefits. I must say that in this sense, in the way that was given today, we have not yet thought. Of course, this is a matter of debate in Parliament about the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is given by a colleague Pavel Rupar, a colleague of Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, members of the government, Mr President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! I have a few questions for the Minister, Mr. Copac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u64	Minister Kopač is asked this question and I invite him to listen to the question. Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u65	As we know, in 1999 the National Environmental Protection Programme was adopted by the National Assembly. In this national programme, which was quite extensive, approximately EUR 263 billion of funding was foreseen within five years of adoption. As we know in 1999 and 2000 this money was completely gone, but it is about 53 billion tolars per year. I therefore ask the Minister, how is the implementation of the national environmental protection programme, or is it sufficient in this year and in the future to achieve the objectives of the financial envelope? Since we know that there are significant deviations from the implementation of the program, I want to know where you see these derogations or where they are found and where they are justified. Furthermore, what measures are planned to begin implementation and improve the programme itself. The next set of issues concerns you in part, and especially the Minister of the Presecnik, for transport. We know that one of the agenda items at this meeting is also the proposal for a road transport law. Well, and in one of these articles also transitional provisions in which all car carriers must provide parking spaces and laundry facilities for means of transport. Given that we have given the parliamentary group the initiative to extend this period until 2004 and we have not received an answer, I would like to know if the Minister and the Ministry or the Government insists on the target date, which is the end of this year. And given that the law provides that licences are granted only on the basis of regulated parking spaces, i.e. with the building permit or even those who have applied for construction permits in a timely manner, I am interested, but this is also a connection with the gentleman or the Ministry of the Environment and the space where you see even the possibility for these smaller companies to secure such parking spaces. Given that an abnormally large number of consents are needed to obtain a building permit for such parking lots, how much do you expect from these unemployed motorists and how many standing vehicles and I am interested in what you will do with these people or with all this fleet that will not be mobile, because of course it will not have a license and no parking spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. At this point, of course, I can't tell you exactly how much funding has been made every year now or how much has already been realized under the envisaged funding for the national environmental programme, but I can say that, after a very harsh estimate, it would be about as much as the annual average, given the programme's adoption. This does not mean, of course, that only resources from the State budget are allocated for this purpose, but also funds from municipal budgets, funds collected for water loading, funds collected for carbon dioxide emissions, water reimbursements, etc. I can, of course, promise you more accurate information in writing if you predict the question, but I would have prepared it by today's meeting. As far as the parking lot is concerned. In the part that the question was addressed to me, I can say that according to my available data, approximately 1/3 of the car carriers have no parking spaces and 2/3 have arranged parking spaces. That these 2/3s, in particular, represent more serious or larger companies that have systematically prepared for the entry into force of the Regulation. However, that some who did not or did not pay any attention to the entry into force of the parking rules did not take any steps to resolve the problem. Some did so, but they could not objectively, or because the municipal spatial plan had not been adopted and some land could not be converted into a building to arrange the parking lot or for any other objective reason. For the Ministry of Environment and Space there is either a problem or; we regret that the regulation will not enter into force because you probably know that the government has proposed a new road transport law which foresees a further half-year delay in implementing the provisions on how parking should be regulated. The Ministry of Environment and Space is not interested in other arrangements that actually belong to other sectors within the government. We are particularly interested in oil hunters or adequate protection against the spillage of dangerous groundwater fluids. In fact, we are facing the problem of unregulated parking lots where groundwater poisoning is occurring due to waste oils, perhaps you have already heard that, say one of the major parking spaces in the country of Gornji Radgona, there is no such protection. There, many carriers from Eastern European and Asian countries are peacefully changing oil, and in fact, in the immediate vicinity, the main mineral water pump is working, as well as a water supply for Radenci and for Gornja Radgona. Well, if there was a disaster and it is entirely possible that there would be, then of course we could write off the normal functioning of that region of Slovenia. It's not like he's playing with things. What I'm saying is that soil protection is more important than any of the jobs between motorists, although of course it sounds ugly at first sight. The government is in the novel, so the new Road Transport Act provided for a half-year transitional period, but only for those who have shown some truth so far. The seriousness of starting to regulate your parking problem within the meaning of a regulation which will not now enter into force. The seriousness in this sense of showing some intention, but for objective reasons they could not come to an end, as I have already mentioned, or because the municipal spatial plan or the like has not been changed. I feel, however, that among motorists perhaps the loudest ones who didn't even have a serious intention to start handling this problem and which, of course, parking them all in the opposite direction, even through some meadows, somehow answers. This also represents a competitive advantage for them. To us, the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, poses a threat to what will happen if dangerous liquids run out into the groundwater. Perhaps my colleague Presecnik will help me to draw up a response to another part of this set that you have set up, honourable Member Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob Presecnik, Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Rupar. Most of the answers have already been given by a fellow digger. I must say that this Regulation entered into force or was already adopted in 1996 in certain provisions, and in particular as regards parking spaces and parking conditions, it was a five-year transitional period or postponement of that period. And this deadline, as you've also established, would have expired on 1.7 this year. Unfortunately, we are only discussing these problems this year, instead of talking about them in 1997 at least. So we have, as my colleague Kopač has already explained, or the government has submitted a bill on road transport for parliamentary discussion. It is precisely because of the problems that arise, which are objectively in the Slovenian space, that we are also trying to address the problem of parking with a new transitional period. In doing so, I must point out that we are already cross-cutting what would be the possible amendments to this Regulation. And above all, there will be no change in the part already stressed by Mr Kopač. However, we foresee some other changes such as: providing some other conditions in these parking lots from, I don't know, sanitation, lighting, I don't know any more. This is the case in Article 4 of this Regulation, and the ten paragraphs also contain specific conditions. About parking spaces as a condition for licences obtained by individual carriers. This is, of course, clearly reflected in the proposal for a law. The desire and request of carriers or chambers, in particular the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is that this should not be a condition for the issue of a licence, but should otherwise be governed by a stricter criminal policy. However, I do not think there is any particular difference here. If we have an extremely strict penal policy, if someone has a regulated parking lot, then probably there is no problem in this case, if this parking lot is already a condition for the licence itself. So much for the answer. However, I think that the debate on this subject will begin tomorrow in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which will begin as a parent committee with the consideration of this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Just about the parking lot, maybe that's all. If you look at the absolute number of companies involved in transport, then more than half of them have no parking spaces. But you can't watch the number of trucks. In fact, it is a major problem that smaller transport companies see and try on their skin that large carriers have had things arranged in the past. And you didn't have to do absolutely anything for the I don't know, an oil hunter or a truck wash. But it's these little entrepreneurs, from 3 to 10 truck drivers. But for them, it's a very big problem. The error of the work of all ministries so far may be that it was not able to unite them and to organize them with the congregations, perhaps, or with those with land to connect and arrange such parking places. Of course, it is understandable that everyone wants to avoid as long as possible. That's why it's obvious that if they didn't do anything, nothing happened, it's out of place. Otherwise, the problem should be solved, and otherwise this matter should be organised and brought to this end. Actually, these things are very expensive. According to the calculations, the square metre of such a parking lot would cost about 800 to 1000 German marks, which is of course a pretty big deal in relation to large trucks. Of course, I am taking another parliamentary initiative, I have already given it in writing, to extend this deadline, however, by the end of 2004 and to take a serious approach to rescue also for smaller entrepreneurs, not only for those who inherited it from previous systems, when it was done to them by a completely different financial sphere, not themselves. I have in mind companies like Intereuropa, Integrated and so on. So they didn't invest anything in these things. However, the parliamentary initiative is in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much. To Mr Rupar's supplementary question, both ministers, Mr Kopač and then Mr Preseknik would like to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u73	Mr. Rupar! For example, it is interesting that in the area of Gorenjska, Mr Azman as, I think, the president of the trade association, the Chamber of Commerce or trades, the Association of craftsmen, I do not know exactly, particularly strongly engaged in dealing with this problem in cooperation with the Ministry, which I have read from old papers or archives in this regard. So I am sure that, in the Gorenjsky area, some of these problems have been resolved. But I would like to, because of the special commitment of this team that did this in Gorenjska. Mr. Azman, if I'm not mistaken, he's a self-transportor. Well, I'd like to draw attention to another aspect of what you're starting here. In particular, in smaller vehicles this difference is noticeable, and some went into parking arrangements, but some did not go. Of course, those who went into parking arrangements spent quite a bit of money on this. However, those who did not go did not spend anything, but with their potential danger they endanger all others, us, the inhabitants of Slovenia with potential spills of dangerous substances into the groundwater, but of course they achieve a competitive advantage. But think about how those car carriers, including the small ones who had settled the parking problem in 1996, 1997, 1998 because they knew that in 2001 the flag would fall, but what they would think about the country that suddenly comes just before the present, so that there would be peace in the house, to all those who have not thought about it all these years, just to rediscover it by 2004. The Ministry of Environment and Space will strongly oppose the issue if such a proposal comes under the government procedure. We believe that an additional half year of forgiveness is more than enough, and that is only for those who have so far shown some seriousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Minister Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u75	Two more things I'd like to point out. As far as the price is concerned, of course it is also important that we re-analyse, I think that Article 2 or 2 of this Regulation, where the number of parking spaces required is determined according to the number of vehicles each has, i.e. an entrepreneur or a craftsman. Here we check, of course, what is this frequency of parking in the home yard or what is the frequency of absence of these vehicles from the home yard if I simplify. And there is, of course, a milder condition for the number of parking spaces according to the number of vehicles that an individual or individual company has. That's one. Secondly, I think that if we harmonise the less favourable conditions in Article 4 of this Regulation, the construction or unit price or the price per square metre will be lower. And maybe a third thing. My colleague Kopač has already touched on this, we receive a number of notifications or letters from those who have provided such parking facilities on the basis of an existing regulation, threatening to sue the country which issued this Regulation and which, after five years, deletes or departs into a new uncertain future for the following years, probably with the expectation that from 2004 - such as your proposal - this will move again until 2008 etc. I assure you that we have where I come from, that one of these carriers has provided parking spaces for close to 100 parking spaces. However, to date there is no offer or demand for this parking space, because it is not necessary and the user of this space or the tenant of this space should pay a monthly rent - I do not know, I will invent - 20,000 tolars. I don't know, but this information is made up and the rest isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go. And then Mr. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I am asking the Health Minister, Dr Dusan Kebra, a question concerning reinforcements to prevent hospital infections in health institutions in the country. It is certainly shocking that every 10 patients get an additional infection in the hospital, so we rightly wonder how safe or how dangerous Slovenian hospitals are because of bacterial infections. The bacteria, which is on a tour of hospitals around the world and also in Slovenia, are marked by MRSA. Patients usually only receive MRSA in a hospital. Therefore, patients today are not aware of or aware of these dangers. It is undeniable that hospitals are dangerous because of its staff, which is often populated with the most resistant bacteria that can be transmitted from one patient to another with their own hands. This is particularly true in our situation when lack of nurses and lack of hygiene are probably the main factors requiring the unrestrained spread of resistant bacteria. MRSA is the main indicator for the hygiene or safety of a hospital. A high percentage of MRSE means a dangerous hospital, a low percentage means a safe and quality hospital with careful hygiene. Indeed, the percentage of MRSA has become one of the three criteria for the quality of the hospital. Slovenia unquestionably belongs to the very top by the frequency of resistant bacteria. In Scandinavian countries, 0.3% of staphlyoccals are resistant to medicilin. In Switzerland 2%, in Germany 6%, in Spain 30%, in Italy and in France 34% and in Slovenia even 40%. This means that Slovenia is one of the hyper-endemic areas with MRSA, so it is not surprising that Switzerland, for example, advises admission to our and Mediterranean hospitals and recommends repatriation as quickly as possible. In Slovenia, according to some claims, this time there is no hospital that would not have an MRSA epidemic. By changing hygiene doctrines in hospitals, if, instead of washing the deadlines, medical personnel have consistently applied the disinfection of the deadlines, as well as other measures, of course, it would be possible to reduce the frequency of MRSA in Slovenia within five years from the current 40% to less than 5%. This would significantly reduce the costs of extending the hospitalisation of patients and significantly reduce the mortality of patients due to persistent hospital infections. Minister, Dr Dusan Kebra, I ask what the Ministry of Health can do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Mr Bevk. In fact, I fully agree with the basis for your question, including the interpretation of the importance of infections with resistant bacteria and bacteria in general, including the definition that this is one of the quality elements of the hospital, if we are talking about prevalence, in short, the presence of bacteria between patients or staff. Perhaps in any case I would just correct the data a little bit, at least the data available to the Ministry, which is the result of accurate verifications based on the data we have also heard in the media. First, of course, we also need to talk about the carrier of the bacteria and not the infection that already means the disease. This facility is a safety criterion for the hospital. And after this carrier, according to recent estimates, the percentage in Slovenian hospitals should be below 20% and not approximately 40%, as we have heard from some, according to our opinions or professional services, unreasonably based or under-verified rumors. Nevertheless, the percentage is high. We should want to get close to a percentage of 3.5 as some developed countries do. In fact, it's relatively easy to get to that percentage. This is also well known, and we must also be grateful for the public debate which, at the initiative of individual driven enthusiasts, appeared in the public media and has done a good thing to make people wonder whether our hospitals are safe enough and whether hospitals are doing everything they can to address the individual phenomena of new threats. Since it is really a new and new occurrence of new risks, the one we are talking about right now is meticillins resistant to MRSA, the result is excessive or, of course, the use of antibiotics and bacteria that have adapted to these antibiotics. It is clear that there is a struggle in hospitals against infection at all times. I'm not going back to history, I'm going to go back to the last period to control these new phenomena. It can probably be said that over the last 10, 15 years, it has given attention to controlling infections and transmissions precisely because of the success of antibiotics and all the other aids in hospitals and that it is actually coming, I'll say, a retributive blow to the empire, if I say so. But this time there is already a rule adopted in the mandate of the former Minister on procedures for the management of hospital infections. All hospitals have commissions in place to control hospital infections. The Special Commission of the Ministry, which also has the same name as the Commission for the Prevention of Hospital Infections, has just drawn up extensive guidelines, in fact, from Group 11 of the Guidelines, with detailed instructions, which does not mean that the hospitals have done nothing so far. It only means that we now have in our hands a standardised approach to controlling these infections, which were approved by the Health Council at the last meeting 14 days ago, so in the first week of April and the Ministry is actually waiting only for a formal way, minutes and all other formal conditions, that we will send these instructions to all Slovenian hospitals, which, of course and in addition, of course, are not only affecting the disinfection of the deadlines, which we agree, in particular with MRSI, is an important or most important measure, but we are dealing with the control of the quality of drinking water. Let me remind you of the Legion, which is also a concern in Slovenia, and for epidemiological monitoring of infections, and for preventing the spread of MRSE, the way in which patients are isolated, the minimum technical conditions for microbiological services, sterilization and waste, in short, the condition of hygiene of the hands with a detailed description. I'd say this. All three regulations or guidelines have been known for some time, but we are among those countries, which unfortunately need to be said to be less respected by laws than in the quoted Scandinavian countries. We can pass a law on alcohol in traffic, and we have our own view of how we stick to it. We can pass a law on non-violence in certain areas, including hospitals. And we can see how we're holding up. And also the rules themselves that it is such a simple procedure that every healthcare professional has to contact the patient without exception to disinfect his hands, depending on not so much on the number of workers, because the procedure is short, takes a minute and you can do it when you talk to the next patient. It's just whether we're willing to do it or not. That is why we think it is fundamental, and therefore we have these commissions, the fundamental way to establish this is, of course, internal control, and we are prepared to keep an eye on the functioning of this internal control, and that, if necessary, it will also call off people who will not establish something as simple as that of a health worker in every workplace having this disinfection. According to one very simple survey, we believe that in fact the technical basis for this is carried out everywhere. Today there is no place, no research, no rooms with patients where a simple device would not be available where you can inject an disinfectant like liquid soap. And this opportunity, if you allow me, I also take advantage of the extent to which this debate will come to the public, so that patients themselves can help control healthcare professionals or have their hands disinfected in contact with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Satisfied? Thank you. Mr Sašo Pece has the next question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u81	The distinguished remain present by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other Members of the National Assembly! I must admit that a few moments ago, when there was still a mandate-holder present in this Chamber, I was just wondering whether to ask a question, or especially after the mandate-holder had not shown excessive concern for the Slovenian economy. After also showing unemployment rates in our country as not something alarming, he has actually shown our country as a success story. It's the same story that we've been repeating somehow since 1992, and everyone thinks of it. However, regardless of whether or not it binds me, let's say party discipline on the mandate holder or on the other representatives sitting in the government today, I would just like to talk a little bit about the Slovenian Development Society, the equity society. So, about the area that, according to the opinion of the social partners that are excluded from this story, is excluded from the story of negotiation and determination of a general consensus that is supposed to somehow fill the privatisation gap in this country and, on the other hand, give new impetus to those companies that are so far, say in the terms "animals" below, say the Slovenian Development Agency or the SRD. The political parties that are today forming the government, that is, all the great heads that you are trying to save the SRD, have spoken different approaches before the elections. Before the elections, you promised different models to fill the privatisation gap. Thus, none of the political parties sitting in the government today spoke of this way of filling the privatisation gap. You've all missed the deadline you promised before the elections. You've all promised different, man-friendly measures to fill the privatisation gap. Today or at this time, you have adopted or accepted a programme that will privatize this large Slovenian company, which carries approximately 9,500 employees in its ranks, in such a way as to manage and sell it to PIDs. What the PIDs actually did, we all know here. They created this privatisation gap. And despite the fact that the social partners who unfortunately do not find an accomplice in you, in government representatives, in ministries, especially the Ministry of the Economy, point out that unemployment will increase by 2,000 jobs, at the expense of your methodology of filling the privatisation gap, you will not be able to listen to their discussions. I'm not going to ask no questions not to give an initiative. I just want to remind you, you're not here for yourself, talk to the social partners. And if you are urgently looking for money to fill the privatisation gap, let's all find it together where it's actually on the palm or something above the palm of your hand. On that so-called plane that the Slovenian government is in such a hurry [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u82	Mr Sašo Peče, in fact, you have misused your right to the question of the Member in order to tell you at the end of three minutes, as far as you are concerned, that you do not intend to set it up or intend to give a parliamentary initiative, so I remind you that this is an abuse of the right to ask the question of a Member. Thank you very much for your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u83	Madam Vice-President, as opposition Member, I would like to point out that you are taking our word, so there is nothing new. Just one more time. Think about your work, you'll get 2,000 people to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Sok applied for the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Member and Members. I will ask the next question concerning the functioning of local self-government. Local self-government, says the municipalities, is undoubtedly one of the foundations in all the developed countries of the European Union. The European Union countries are committed to the functioning of local self-government in a variety of ways. Here, in this House we have been able to hear that those who strengthen local self-government most, even up to 30 per cent, for example Sweden. For us, look, this year's budget is increasing by a index of 117,8 means a previous last year's realisation. The budget will increase by 17.8 per cent, while for the functioning of local self-government as complementary funds, we increase the funding for index 104.1 or, in other words, 4.1 per cent. This means that we are dedicating relatively less resources to the functioning of local self-government than we did last year. So we don't even follow inflationary movements, let alone increase these funds and thus get close to these trends that are taking place in the countries of the European Union. The local self-government is getting significantly less through this purpose, and on the other hand, we can all see that our organisation is moving away at the level of the regions and that the country is constantly increasing centralisation as such. In this corner, I would like to know how the representatives of the government, especially the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, represent Slovenia's involvement in the European Union, in the fact that we spend less resources per year on local self-government to centralise matters more and more. This leads to major problems, particularly in the area of demographic threats, in an area where the rural population is the main population where young people move away, where they leave their homes for elderly parents who can no longer cultivate agricultural land, which is why it is only growing, while in cities there is one major problem with housing policy, housing and employment. If Slovenia wanted to follow these trends in the European Union, I believe it should increase funds for local self-government, for the functioning of the municipalities, but not lower than we do. Please give me a nice answer as to how you imagine these things in the government and how Slovenia can participate equally in the European Union with such financial trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Which one of the government representatives? Minister of the Interior. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u87	I thank you for that part of the question concerning the Ministry of the Interior. This is not a financial issue. Unfortunately, I must attach this to the honourable Member as regards the information he provides here. European comparisons show exactly what you say. We are in the lower part of the countries after the percentage of public finances belonging to local self-government, of course because of the specific system of local government funding. With regard to the Ministry of the Interior's view on this issue, I would say that, in the framework of public administration reform, we will also have to re-examine or re-create the issue of the local government's funding system, taking into account the European Charter of Local Self-Government and some other documents of the Council of Europe and the European Union, and probably also on the basis of an analysis of our not-too-encouraging experience in this area. These European documents, however, focus mainly on the principle of self-financing autonomy, also on visible revenues. And our proposal is that next month the government will adopt a strategy or a starting point and a direction for the further development of local self-government that will cover both funding issues and issues of internal order and the situation of municipalities and landscapes. This document is already an expert document to be dealt with by the Executive Board of the Ministry of the Interior this month, we will present this document to the government, and this document will be the basis for the gradual transformation of systemic solutions in this area. In particular, we have in mind that, in the last quarter of this year, we will propose a new law on municipalities and the law on the provinces, and that the law on local self-government should remain only as a system regulation to deal with the fundamental issues of local self-government units in the country, both in matters relating to municipalities and the provinces. Of course, it will also be necessary to complete the implementation of new systemic solutions in order to complete the process of adapting the Constitution, not only Article 143, but also certain others, particularly those relating to the constitutional position of the municipality. As part of this and on the basis of the starting points I have mentioned, we expect a new law on the financing of municipalities to be submitted, because, as I say, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to deal with these issues on the amended systemic basis and in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. We can promise that these changes, which cannot be made in this year, may not be definitively in the following year, but it is a process of upgrading or further development of local government that will, however, lead to such a situation of Slovenian municipalities and landscapes, so that this will be comparable to the European countries you are also referring to. So much could be done on my part, perhaps it would be good for us to hear from our colleagues from the Finance Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Here you are, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Končan Darko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u89	On the basis of the Member's initiative or question and the opinion that funding for local communities is being reduced from year to year, I think the answer is very complex and will therefore be prepared and forwarded by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Can I help you? You don't want to. Thank you very much. Next up is Igor Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. I would ask the Ministry of the Economy my question. The State which owns certain shares in major Slovenian companies will this year have announced the sale of certain shares. On the list of companies where the country wants to sell the whole share, Illyrian Bistriski Lesonit was also listed. One Italian buyer intends to buy, or has bought, all 12% of the shares owned by the State during the days. I welcome the flow of foreign capital to Slovenia, as the Italian company Phantomi has already started certain investments in Lesotho. There's one thing that bothers me. I think the state share was overpriced. At the original price, the country demanded some more than 3,000 tolls for the stock and the Italians themselves raised the price and offered more, although they were the only interested buyer. I think we don't appreciate the wealth we have, because at a time when the country is looking at every tolar that runs into the state treasury, it would be kind of a different path. To set as high a starting price as possible and then to reduce it accordingly if there was no market response. This way, I think we can make more money, which goes directly to the state treasury. I want to know how the appreciation of our societies goes and by whom and by what key it sets the price. Since some sales of state property have been announced this year, I'm afraid we're not going to sell it out too cheap. I would be very happy if you could give me a concrete answer, it is said how the price was set and who set the price in the case of Illyrian Bistro Lesonite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Vitez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u93	I thank you for the question and we will give these explanations in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Digach is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u95	By the way, I've been monitoring this, like all the other members of the government. The price was raised by the government, not by the company that bought the shares. This, of course, wanted to buy at as low a price as possible. After a discussion at the Committee on the Economy, which I myself attended, the government demanded a higher price because we felt that they would still buy what they were interested in, even at a higher price.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Davorin Targeton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I refer my question to the representative of the Ministry of Finance. And I ask, how does the Ministry of Finance represent the regulation of gambling activities, from which the state budget receives large sums of money to charge the budget? I think that things should be regulated to make this form of budget implementation even bigger. Now there's stagnation, and the casinos are going down. Years ago, the laws adopted are, in my opinion, numerous and numberable laws and regulations under law, obsolete and no longer correspond to time. The way in which regulations are implemented and supervision is carried out raises the development of the whole sector under question. Slovenia has been the leader of this part of Europe for many years in the gambling business, and now we are all overtaken, both in areas that have been legalised and organised. For this reason, I ask, when can we expect in Parliament a new law on gambling and appropriate regulations that will fully regulate and stimulate the way and conditions of investment in this activity? How will the government respond to the upcoming competition, especially in neighbouring countries, and how will it reduce the negative effects of this competition, both for our gambling players and our economy as a whole? What will the government or ministry do to reduce tax burdens on gambling operators, since only these are more competitive and do not stimulate investment and modernisation in casinos, which is an essential condition for the prosperity of this activity? How many regulations and other regulations have been issued relating to the adaptation of gambling? How many times have they been changed? How many times have they been dismissed by the Constitutional Court and how many proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court? What is the epilogue of the media-high-pitched closure of the Tolmin casino, where the gambling control office became very involved in the closure of the casino and the process ended with a discharge decision and a compensation claim against the Ministry of Justice of 500 million? Why are only two state employees available for the whole of Slovenia who are obviously unable to do all the work and thus cause great damage, loss of income, for the purpose of verifying compliance with the regulations and so-called type-approval of slot machines? And in the end. Why did the Ministry, the organizer of gambling, still prescribe manual production of accounting statements, the counters of each slot machine, despite the fact that there are already two types of controls; the so-called "on line" control and a single control device from which all data can be understood?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Representative of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Končan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u99	Your Honor! The questions you have raised require at least an hour of explanation of everything you want to answer. In view of the fact that I have been covering this area since recently, I will try to answer a few things at least, of course we will prepare the rest in a longer written form or as you have already asked a question in the form of a bill, which we will also put into procedure as soon as possible. The fact is that the government adopted a strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia three years ago. It is undeniable that Slovenian gaming is specific throughout the world after more than 90 even sometimes 95 percent of the total "incam", so income is essentially generated by the influx of foreign players when we talk about casinos. And lately this share of foreign players and the income from this title has been relatively reduced. However, in addition to the classic casinos that have been in the past years, we know from Slovenia's independence and from all the problems related to Hit and others, this activity has actually been stagnating due to a series of measures. However, I can say that after we have abnormally increased their tax burdens as a country, there has been a significant stagnation in the last two or three years. At the same time, however, besides classical casinos, we have, of course, so-called gaming salons with gaming machines, where there is a lot of question, who brings income, who plays and so on. And there is a mixture of foreign guests as well as domestic guests. You mentioned the "on line" system. Indeed, for part of these by number of playrooms, they are essentially included in the "on line" system. The large, remaining part is not included in the "on line" system at all, because the existing regulations and the law do not dictate to them literally, but they must decide for themselves on these matters, which is, of course, also related to the high investment costs, the technical refinement of equipment and the like. Because of all this and because this government strategy of gambling, which says that, of course, the burden of gambling as such, these direct taxes, is a direct tax, that, of course, by the time gambling starts to grow, especially because foreign guests bring this income into the gaming sphere, it also develops the whole infrastructure, the whole of tourism. For this reason, a comprehensive analysis and a study is being prepared first, which will, for example, be the basis for the drafting of a new law or amendment to the law on gambling, we anticipate that in the next six months this could be brought so far as to be put into the procedure. There was also talk about the rules. I say that, on the one hand, the rules only concern gambling activities, the other rules also apply to all other types of gambling. However, the fact is that when you essentially want to satisfy one side on short notice, bring, for example, results on a particular segment, of course, you unwittingly cause negative effects to the other. Because in Slovenia we will not be able to simply say tax burdens on casinos, so that in the next two, three years they can develop quickly, especially compared to competition in Italy, Austria, Hungary, but, of course, we will have to give up at the same time if such a decision is made by the government and then by parliament, much of the fiscal revenues in this medium-term period. So that all of this is in a certain interaction and, of course, because of any interference, changing laws without checking and analysing and studying what synergies will bring at the final stage, of course, we cannot afford to essentially satisfy individual interests unilaterally. So we are counting, as I said, in the coming weeks we are preparing a consultation with all actors in this area, with all those who are experts in knowledge. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] activities to prepare common ground and then to prepare a new law that will go into procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Tercheon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u101	Just for a little while. I am pleased that you are aware of the problem, but I must say that with some emphasis from your answer I am not satisfied. I'm not satisfied with the dynamics you've been predicting, because I think the situation is such that we need to act more quickly. We know about the promises of the right-centre coalition in Italy, in case it wins the elections, because it is also possible how things will take place there. And that's why I don't think this dynamic is fast enough. I also do not agree with you that reducing tax burdens necessarily means lower revenue in the budget, as this could be reduced in the larger traffic account [[Op.: Indeterminate!]] or possibly further increased. Of course, you did not exactly answer me why we must have three types of inefficient control instead of one type of effective. As I said, given the vastness of the question, I also expect a detailed written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question also relates to fleshy flour, which we have already heard about today. However, from a completely different point of view, these two questions can be complementary. This meat loaf, of course, is a problem, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe, but in Slovenia two facts have emerged. The first is that it feels terribly great resistance and, of course, the fear of landscape harm burns fleshy flour in combustion plants in the home. On the other hand, there was a single-circuit fire in the storage room of the flour mentioned in Kočev, which put the problem completely on the head. Directly in the warehouse there was an incendiary and smoke gas, which were also unburned, which of course is normal, dissipated to the surrounding area and, according to the experts, there was no harmful effect on the environment. That's the first one. And second. The same experts swore that without harmful consequences, the spread of flour from these bags could be deposited at a municipal depot. Those remains that were there, not the whole, but what was scattered. These two aren't getting along somehow. And logically, the question is why the expensive combustion of bone marrow was mentioned in Belgium, probably also which other country is included, but if we have several large hens in Slovenia, where we could achieve the total combustion of this flour, which could even be the fuel and savings of the basic energy, it is certainly incineration in large combustion plants where the containment process is completely controlled, significantly more manageable and less harmful than the self-burning and removal to the municipal landfill, which is, of course, harmless after the confirmation of the public officials of the relevant authorities. How can it be argued that this is harmless if, on the other hand, such care in controlled combustion in large combustion plants. These two don't go together. And then why are we even thinking about burning in Belgium, if the thing is harmless, even if the smoke gases don't burn, what was in Kočev, even if it's not much. And I want to know what's real now, whether it's harmful what's burning under control, like in large incinerators, or whether that self-inflicted burner was really harmless. Then the concern about this is a little too severe and it could be easier to resolve the matter and it would not be necessary to think about burning this flour in Belgium. And I'd like to ask the government to respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u105	For most of your statements, I cannot say otherwise that I cannot agree with them more than I can. Indeed, in the discussions on meaty flour, there has been an entirely incomprehensible euphoria, I can say even hysteria, which is simply not explained logically. Meat meal is an organic substance. This organic substance, of course, represents harmless waste, like household waste, for example. It's a similar level of danger. Of course, this was used in the food chain and is still used in the food chain for domestic animals, I mean cats and dogs. It is no longer used in the food chain for those animals that are then eaten by humans. That is why, of course, every fear about this in my opinion is completely unjustifiable. Self-ignition in Kočev occurred and, of course, there were no particularly dangerous emissions. Just like there are none, especially dangerous, if a sawdust is started, or if another organic substance is started. Of course, it's not a controlled incineration. As a country, however, we are, of course, obliged to carry out controlled processes. This means that things need to be incinerated in combustion plants where emissions of harmful substances can be measured. In the open, of course, that's not possible. That's why we're looking for an appropriate incinerator. I've already explained why she can't be found like this. There are some that are potentially usable, but none of them are useful overnight, but they must pre-install the appropriate technology to inflate the bulk of bone marrow. If you want to burn what is already in the warehouse and it shriveled, the stored flour becomes shallow, imagine a damp cement bag, thick, and you need to crush it first. And it is again another infusing technique and also one of these, of course, none of the existing combustion plants in Slovenia. To throw, for example. In cement, in a hen all the bags, which now have 1 ton, but not go either, because then of course there is no good burning at once. Because it'd be a big deal. Well, anyway, these are technical problems. As regards the risk and risk analysis, I can only say that the Institute of Chemistry in Ljubljana, which specifically commissioned the public company Strength at the request of the municipality of Ljubljana, has found what has been reported to be a non-hazardous waste, which is, of course, clear to every average or average logical observer that the only thing worth mentioning is that it has to be stabilised before the disposal. Which means, if it were to be exposed to a luscious test, for example, that meat meal is put into a container, a little water is poured into it and then it is mixed and mixed to extract the substances from meat meal, this luscious test shows that one of the emissions, one of the wastes in this regard is too much in relation to the emissions allowed. This does not mean, of course, that there are no such things in normal household messes, much more. It only means that this should be handled in a more cautious way, which means doing so. The Chemical Institute said to stabilize before delay. This also happened when this burnt, eight - year - old bone meal from Kočev was deposited at the Barje dump. Stabilization occurred with electro-filter ash. This was a mix-up, and that's what the stabilisation was all about. Now, whether it was mixed enough of electro-filter ash or not, we don't know yet, because this will be further studied by the Chemical Institute, but anyway, I can assure you that this hazardous waste has been handled as carefully as possible. Well, whatever. Your question was, why burn it if it can be delayed? One ton of municipal waste or the disposal of one ton of municipal waste is more expensive than incinerating one ton of organic waste - that's the first reason. The second reason, however, is the resistance of potential environmental residents, who now suddenly see something in this completely hazardous organic waste that is actually almost like radioactive waste with this euphoria that has happened. This I hope is a satisfactory answer to your question. Once again, as far as incineration is concerned, it seems a shame not to burn it, but to dump it on landfills. Not only because it is cheaper than dumping municipal waste, but also because it is a very high-quality energy that can replace either oil or coal or some other fuel that is used by the combustion plants that I talked about before, that is two cement plants and two thermoelectric plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. My question didn't go that way. I think I've made myself quite clear. I even claimed that we have a lot of these devices in Slovenia, where we can control that we can burn because he is a good energetic. But the additional question goes this way; so I could say that I fully agree with you. That's why I have another question. This meaty flour is not from yesterday, and it will probably not be saved tomorrow, but it will drag on for quite some time, because what is happening to this mad cow problem is more complicated than a foot-and-mouth disease, because it is a genetic change and will continue for a long time. So I'm surprised the Slovenian government didn't remember, but if it did, I apologize and ask you to say it because I didn't read it anywhere. Given that this problem will last for a long time, this combustion of bone marrow will be still up to date, because we know that these wastes are and must somehow be disposed of, that the Slovenian government has not prepared, I don't know, a call for an idea of how to get this meat meal to be roasted or otherwise destroyed, or to produce some equipment that would be qualified to burn this flour in large devices as a supplement. I didn't see that coming. But I think it would be real because this problem won't be solved tomorrow. And that's where I'm asking the government. Has such an invitation been made? And that's what I'd like to ask. Why the Slovenian government is not a little clearer, a little more energetically said that if these wastes burn, I mean, burn well, it is true that there is no harmful emissions into the atmosphere. There was something, but it was very scary. It seems to me that we tended to suit ourselves, that these great demonstrations or resistances to smoking in our own place and finding a variant to burn it abroad. By the way, I'm not meant to be incinerated abroad, but at home, because it can be energetic. I think the burning value of this flour is very high because there's a lot of fat in it. And I know it's got a lot of burning value. The question is whether the government has made any calls for this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u109	Of course, the Government has adopted a regulation on the processing of slaughterhouse waste, declared it a public service and, on this basis, has also launched an international public invitation to tender for the thermal treatment of this product resulting from the thermal treatment of slaughterhouse waste. Only two companies took part in the tender. Unfortunately, there was no thermal power plant in Šostjanje, yet, but none of these two, of course, met the tendering conditions. One not because of the price, but because of the technology. That's how we ran out of suitable bidders. We will, of course, repeat the invitation to tender and sincerely hope that after the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj will install the necessary technology, because we hope, of course, that the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj will also come forward. Otherwise, it was a call. I know, of course. The record is publicly available. And there is no problem and we will report all of this in Parliament as part of the already mentioned response to the Commission's request for budgetary control. You asked me one more question, or maybe I overheard something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u110	If you have also made any calls for a domestic company to produce all the combustion equipment. This is called accepted particles and, of course, also as dust, let's say this freshly made.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u111	No, we did not make such an invitation to tender because we do not own any such place as a country. Of course, we expect those who have such hotspots, both thermal power plants and both cement plants, to find the best bidder for appropriate technology. It would be a little embarrassing if the state of the technology seller chose and then asked the one who would sign up for the incineration call to install it precisely, because, of course, we are not technology specialists, if anything, then we are for procedures. But the answer is no, but it would actually be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam President. I have a parliamentary initiative and a question. The e-mail initiative shall apply to the Minister of Telecommunications. In Trbów, the situation in the area of cable distribution systems is unsustainable, anarchic, unjust and absolutely unacceptable for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. It's Ariadne's platypus, which, if you know it, rarely happens. A good three years ago, the PAP Telematics company was awarded a concession for the construction of cable-splitting system by the PAP municipality. PAP Telematics has already taken over a partially built cable-splitting system, built or built and built by individuals, private individuals, without proper permission, I guess. But also PAP Telematics continued as individuals before it. No proper permits. So they did one and the other without permission, each by their own accord. The administrative unit did not give permission from the marketing service, as they say, for justified reasons. The municipality of Trbovlje was silent and was waiting for what would happen. People, and citizens have been paying for the investment in construction, connectivity, subscription, now one, now the other. Now even the municipality of Trbovlje, which granted the concession years ago, does not know who drinks, who pays, the administrative unit of appropriate permits still has not given either one or the other. The first private individuals to lay the groundwork for the system are alleged to be suing everyone and apparently in all possible courts. However, PAP Telematics broke out at the bottom of the court when it sent users a contract on the contracting relationship these days. For users, it is already someone who knows which contract with which quasi-owner and operator of the cable-splitting system. In this Treaty, PAP Telematics states that, if not users, the recipients of the contract will only sign these contracts, recharge the connection fee to all or disconnect the cable-split system from them, even though it is not itss, even though it has not been fully built and created by its predecessors in the same way as it does by its predecessors, unjustly and without appropriate permission. Such anarchy is, you probably agree with me, shameful for the rule of law. Therefore, the next initiative. I ask the Minister to analyse the situation of the construction of the cable-splitting system in the municipality of Trbovlje and to act in the interests of the rule of law and the necessary order immediately under the new Ministry and the Telecommunications Act. That people will know who the owners, whom and what to pay and what to have. By the way, if you check who else is supposed to have an Ariadne bench in their hands and, of course, to make it unjustifiably rich, you will do yourself and the country a huge favor. Thank you very much. And also a question sent to the Ministry of Health. If you don't mind, I'll be very brief. The Minister of Finance has adopted an order a day ago to increase the value added tax rate, and we will say as much about health care from 8% to 19%. According to informal data received from some health professionals, the increase in VAT in health means an additional billion costs in one year. And this billion is not in the Treasury Department of Health Insurance. This means that treatment is directly stimulated. I have three questions. Why did the Ministry of Health not react to the order of the Minister of Finance? What does such an increase in VAT in health care really mean? And why, in all the difficult approximation of Slovenia, the European Union's VAT rate is not the same as in health care in the countries of the European Union, and that is, according to my data, between 2% and 4%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much for the initiative and the question addressed. Mr. Concan. Here you go. Can you turn it off, Mr. Barovich? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u115	Dear Mr. Barovic! I've been holding my head for a while. By the way, the data and the numbers you've put up, I have to say, they're practically not holding. Nowhere in Europe is a reduced rate in the Member States of the European Union following a reduction in the rate between 2 and 4. Is 0 or minimum prescribed 5. Therefore, our legislation also provides that we cannot introduce new duties by means of sub-laws. Therefore, by amending the rules on the implementation of value added tax, we do not introduce new taxes. And we never did, and we never will, because there is no legal basis for it. The Regulation, the amendments to the Regulation that were published days ago, are a consequence of the fact that the grey area has in fact been drawn up a little later. It is true, however, that this has had unloving consequences, for it is precisely in the field of medical, orthopaedic and other devices used to increase the functionality of a specific disabled person, as the European Sixth Directive and all other acts do, of course, allow for different treatments. For example, let us invent a computer with certain signs, of course it can also help in the functional life of a disabled person, but of course it does not help, as the European Directive says, in the very functioning of a disabled person and similar matters. However, this is an extreme problem. In short, for over a year we've been in coordination with the Ministry of Health, with the Department of Medicine, then with our customs administration. For this area is governed by at least these three areas or these three institutions. For the first time, medicinal products are classified under a uniform or combined nomenclature, a tariff that is practically applicable throughout the world. Then, of course, this is also coordinated with the previous rules on medicines and medical devices, now replaced by a law that has brought some novelties and eventually comes as a tax consequence, of course, what the tax law says. Our VAT law, which has been in force since 1.7.1999, has made it very easy to say that a reduced rate, which is an exception to the exception, since this is not a general rate, is a general rate of 19 - as is the minimum prescribed everywhere in Europe 15 - says that only for those - besides medicines - but for those medical and orthopaedic devices that help the disabled person to function can be prescribed a reduced rate in national legislation. But not that it's easy to do everything in order. See, that's the problem. With this in mind, of course, the Ministry of Finance, in the tax system sector, without wanting to see in any way the great need, the great sensitivity of this issue, but as we have always warned in coordination, it is a matter of providing funds on the site where such aids are financed, as far as they are not possible with tax legislation which must be harmonised and is already in line with European regulation, to make new exemptions with tax legislation. I believe that it came to the public because there was a lot of talk in the media, and so, of course, did you, of course, transferred from this, would say the opinion that with the rule on new taxation of such aids - of course, as I said at the outset - I regret that I have to explicitly deny it. Only this grey area was wanted because so far it had not been taxed and that the law or regulation had been in force that this was possible, but because it had not been further broken down, and since the case had been coordinated between these three departments, there was now that we wanted to make matters clear with the regulation, there were these inconsistencies. In the preceding days, we had several coordination meetings with the Ministry of Health, the Department of Health Insurance and the Customs Administration. The fruit of this is already ready to change the rule that will come out at the end of the week. Indeed, for a few days such a rule will come into force in its entirety, which was also published last week. Later, and so the following week, the new provisions, which will in part be very precise, will essentially define those medical and orthopaedic devices that are possible when it comes to very, I would like to state in detail what is directly possible or in line with the European Directive and all other acts, so that they can continue to be subject to a reduced tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much for explaining. First, if you had said the European Union from nothing to five; that is to say, I was, if Mr. Mogue, who is a mathematician, would have told me that I was somewhere in this crowd Secondly, I didn't happen to do this, but really not, I learned from the media, but they called me - I'll just say - three gentlemen, health workers and the one who told me the most and made the most of the comments is even of the kind of government coalition. I understand your clarifications about how the computer can also help affected people with disabilities because they are medical devices. However, I would ask, because I am, thank you once again, but I would ask, because I have asked the question of health care if health care can answer me how they view whether they are coordinated. I understand that without any coordination the Minister of Finance can give an order, i.e. how health care looks at this and, of course, less than the money it is, and we cannot challenge it or it will be created in the Department of Health Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you also, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, honourable Member Barovic, for the question raised. Greetings also to all other Members and Members. I can't exactly repeat here after the representative from the Ministry of Finance. We were aware of what this matter meant, so we immediately made contact with the Ministry of Finance and also immediately approached such amendments to this Regulation, which would not have the effect that you have mentioned. Indeed, the Institute of Health Insurance calculated that such a change would have an impact on the annual level of a billion additional costs in the health treasury. I assure you that this effect will not be achieved because the amendments to this Regulation are already being prepared. However, we have also communicated through the Health Insurance Office to health service providers to adapt their procurement processes to the existing state and to these regulatory revisions. However, your additional question was about how we view the taxation of health care or at these levels of VAT, which burden health care or, in particular, health care providers. Here I would like to confirm your thesis that according to our information we have, there are different rates of health services tax elsewhere in the world. I would not now know exactly how these tax rates are designed in the European Union countries. In any case, however, our interest in health is in order to relieve health care providers from paying the tax. I must say this that in health care or for contractors, VAT is burdensome in some special way. And here we will probably talk to the Ministry of Finance and also to the interested public about what would be the appropriate taxation of the healthcare system or health services. Is this now a zero rate, because health services are now exempt from value added tax. Which means all the entrance taxes are paid, of course. So, is the solution in some zero, or is the solution in a reduced rate of value added tax. This is what we expect to bring a solution, an answer to this question to some reasoned debate within the government and within the public concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u121	Unlike the second time. I'm going to thank you so much for the exhilarating conversation. I wanted to say further, thank you very much, and also to the Ministry of Culture, which answered my written question and in its last part made it clear that we Members are also sometimes right. I'm glad they agreed with me. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. For the third time, such a fine thank you is also the power to express. Mrs. Danica Simšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovska and Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupl, how the Republic of Slovenia reacted and how it responded to the recent interference of the foreign country in the very internal affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. I am thinking of the act of the Vatican or the holy seat, which, through the intervention of his ambassador to the highest representatives of our country, tried to prevent and, in fact, temporarily retain, the return of the monument to the Ljubljana capital, which was placed in memory of women's demonstrations during World War II. Let me remind you. It was a unique demonstration in Europe at the time when women in occupied Ljubljana gathered courage with a wire surrounded by a hero, and at multiple demonstrations demanded human treatment of their husbands, sons and brothers imprisoned in fascist and Nazi prisons. The important clergy, therefore, the Vatican Ambassador, Mr Edmund Farhat and the Ljubljana Archbishop Rode, intervened in the very internal affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, not to say in the very local affairs of a local community. That in this case it is the capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana, is, of course, just a coincidence. The next time the Vatican doesn't like anything again in some other place or place in the country, it's going to be another local community. I would like to know how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or on its behalf, the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister, reacted. Has she officially informed the Vatican or its ambassador that it is within the autonomous jurisdiction of the State of Slovenia to act on its land in accordance with its legal order, therefore, with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution? I would also like to know whether she has also introduced the members of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Slovenia, since Mr Farhat is, in addition to being the Ambassador of the Vatican in Slovenia, also the dojonie of the diplomatic assembly in our country. I was going to ask the Foreign Minister for an oral answer. Because I can see he's not here, I'm asking for an oral response from the Foreign Ministry. I also expect a written reply from the Prime Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Samo Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. Because of the complexity of the issue, and in order to comply with the Prime Minister's office, I would ask the Member to answer this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Simsich, please. Can you turn it off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Thank you, I expect a written answer, and I will also be pleased with it. At the same time, I am giving you an initiative if the Republic of Slovenia has not officially reacted to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The next question is Mrs Maja Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, ladies ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I am referring the question to the Minister for the Environment and the Space, who is now also responsible for energy. As a public electricity distribution company, the Elektro requires municipalities to conclude contracts for the construction and co-financing of transformer stations and connecting lines. I'm asking the next question. Are the municipalities in the countryside still obliged to co-finance the construction of a low-voltage network or trapho-posts? What legal provisions are the basis for co-financing transformer stations? With a 10% co-financing share of the electricity network, do municipalities co-owner these facilities? And the final question. Will the cost of electricity supply also be reduced as a result of co-financing of the electricity network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. You want to answer the question, mag. Janez the Digger?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u131	I'm sorry. Thank you for asking. I'm sorry I didn't hear everything, but if I understand correctly, it's a question of whether investing in the electricity system should help reduce the price of electricity. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u132	It is a question of co-financing a low voltage network or trafo-posts. As to whether rural municipalities still have a responsibility to co-finance the construction of a low-voltage network. What legal provisions are the basis for co-financing? Is this co-financing stake invested by the municipalities the only way to become co-owners of these facilities? And then that question you heard. Will the investment or co-financing of the electricity network also reduce the price of the electricity age?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u134	If I understand correctly, it's a new telecom, a new story about investing in telecommunications. I apologize for, of course, not being able to give you an accurate answer, and I will provide the answer in writing. However, I do not think that co-financing is mandatory, I believe that the data is available and that it is probably more based on the free will of the local community, which probably wants to have a new transformer station in a certain environment, and that is why something draws itself. But as I say, the answer will follow in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable ministers, government representatives and government representatives, distinguished fellow Members. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Defence. The Republic of Croatia returned Slovenia years ago to respond to the van, this famous van from Zavrč. I am interested in the condition of the vehicle and, above all, the continued fate of the vehicle and equipment. So I'm wondering if it's still useful. I would also like to know if it was some kind of "related trade", if Slovenia has eliminated or promised Croatia perhaps something we do not know? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Milan Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u138	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the question, Mr Member. As far as I know, it wasn't any kind of tied-up trade. Of course, but I don't know if it's familiar to me, but from the information I have, it wasn't any kind of tied-up trade. What's the condition of the van? Of course, this is a technical question and I really can't tell you, orally answer the question. So we'll deliver the written information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, we can ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u140	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question concerns the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour. According to the Human Development Report, the 2000/2001 period follows that the Posav region, the region with the lowest quality of life or that it is not even any more, but actually gives the lowest. Let me warn you this is about Posavia. As the statistical region of the lower Posavje, such as three Posavnica municipalities: Sevnica, Krško and Brežice, so that no one would trade it for Zasavje or similar. Given that the unemployment rate in this region is also above average, given the alarming data of economic trends, where Posavje is all through the last third, if not in the last quarter of the regions, given the very poor structure of the industry, it is mainly a non-prespective industry such as the textile industry; here we have strong companies such as Jutranjka, Lisca, Labod and part of Beta, it is also a wood processing and metal industry, I ask the following questions. Do you, or representatives of the Ministry of the Economy, believe that certain investments can be expected with State aid or with regional state aid structures in terms of raising quality of life and, of course, correcting these trends in this area? For we know that in the European Community, regional state aid schemes prevail in terms of increasing the development potential of a region and thus increasing the perspective of life and of course the quality of life. I am therefore specifically asking about State aid. My second question, however, is to the Ministry of Finance, to the Secretary of State of Končan, which is the basis for my last Trader number, in which the following article follows: "It happens more and more frequently, that in tax control procedures the position is taken that a single entrepreneur is entitled only to half the cost of depreciation if the business space has been purchased or acquired during the duration of the marriage. As a result, a single undertaking shall also be recognised as a half of the amount of investment relief if it invests in such an facility. However, the news represented by the tax authority requires that the half amount of investment in this procedure be considered as the payment of the rent to the spouse. Therefore, a spouse who is not an independent entrepreneur, according to the tax authority, must report a proportionate amount of investment in his income forecast. Indeed, and this is the problem that only some tax authorities and tax inspectors represent such a position, so I ask whether and where is the legal basis for such action by the tax authorities. And whether it is in some context of an anti-biurocratic programme and an incentive programme for family entrepreneurship and businesses to say that this is how investment is dealt with and, of course, amortisation with independent entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. From the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mrs Renata Vitez, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much for the question, although it is from an area that I do not personally cover, I will try to answer it as best as possible. As far as regional development is concerned, you are right, of course, that there are a lot of so-called structural aid in Europe right in the context of regional development. At the Ministry of Economy, we are also preparing so-called regional schemes. I would only try to say in concrete terms, I think Mr Strumčnik has already tried to explain it here. It is a matter of structural policy, or structural policy, by which, to put it this way, the Ministry of the Economy will carry out, but in particular it will be reflected in one rather complex programme for the development of the business sector and competitiveness. And it is possible just to quickly summarize what the basic elements of this are. This is about the development of entrepreneurship, as I have already said, for an important component of technological development, the promotion of investment, but I point out that it is both domestic and foreign investment, not just foreign investment, as is often understood by this programme, and the internationalisation of enterprises, which means that I say, exports in the broader sense of this word. All these so-called horizontal measures will be weighted by regional schemes in accordance with the development of municipalities or regions, which means that in some cases this will be an integral part of the criterion. Again, it is quite simple to say that an undertaking from a particular region will already be weighted differently in terms of criteria, everything with a goal, the removal of structural problems in that region. In some other cases, depending on the instrumentation, I would not like to go here in detail, but the percentage of aid will be added, once again in line with the 'rank' in the claims of a particular region. In such a way that the Ministry of the Economy will certainly take into account the regional aspect of its instruments this year and implement the so-called regional schemes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Do you still want government representatives? I think they were addressed. The Ministry of Finance, Mr Končan and the Ministry of Labour, Mr Franc Žnidaršič or Minister Vlado Dimovski, are both preparing. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u144	Your Honor, Mr Visjak. I think it is quite understandable that when it comes to a certain property that both spouses have in the marriage union in essence, until, of course, they divide it and both co-owners, it is clear that then they are ideally viewed 50:50 percent by both owners, unless of course there is a different arrangement. And if someone now gives such an asset, for example, as an operator, gives as a basic asset and gets from the country a complete relief to the whole value, he is the one as a sole entrepreneur, he is a taxable person who enforces a complete relief, of course, says a relief also for the part whose property is not his. Therefore, in this part, I see purely from a professional point of view, the conduct of the tax authority in assessing this is entirely justified and this is based on the discretionary right of the tax authority, the cinema based on the evidence collected, the arguments presented by the taxable person can essentially be decided. The solutions in this context are as follows. Finally, in half the amount you could apply such a relief or give in, say, in a tax forecast or otherwise, amortisation costs. For if he enforces, it is in fact primarily his procedure, he enforces the whole; then it is clear that there must not be a double relief on some property. However, I am more surprised or amazed, and of course we will prepare a written reply, mainly prepared by the Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, or really comes to what you have stated, by unequal treatment by individual tax offices. In this part, I can't guarantee, you haven't even mentioned it at any tax office, you've said quite a bit about the tax authority on which the tax office is coming, and of course we're going to check it out, and we're going to intervene if this is really happening. If you have any specific information, I would ask you to provide it, for it will also make it easier for us to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, too, Member Visiak, for the question. This is, of course, an answer that relates to the previous two answers and to the question of unemployment and the reduction of the unemployment rate. Earlier, in one of the answers to Mrs Pozsonchev, we said that the answer was that one of the criteria that the government will follow would be a special attention to those regions that have higher levels of unemployment than the Sava region. As a result, several instruments have already emerged in the past, with which the government has also tried to reduce unemployment rates in this area. Like the "job club" in the region of Zasavje, which is becoming a central part of this so-called regional development. In the future, it will also be with similar instruments, and it is likely by sharpening the criteria that will define between individual regions that individual instruments from so-called active employment policies as well as some normal or classical measures will be intended for those regions with a higher unemployment rate. These are also instruments that concern public works and other instruments in this context to ensure the implementation of an active employment policy. Sooner or later, it will be one of the instruments for which we will develop the infrastructure at the Ministry of Economic Social Fund this year, which will also allow the removal of the so-called structural and structural funds and will then be included in the so-called regional aid schemes. So this would be a more general answer, and of course a more concrete answer would require a more precise response, if you would like to put it also, I will say this more concrete scheme for the area of unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The representative of the Ministry of Economy would like to ask exactly when these regional state aid schemes will be drawn up and when we can expect a call to be issued on how it intends to bring this matter out. That's one thing. Mr. Koncan would have it this way. I focused mainly on the fact that the novelty, that the half amount, is that the other amount from a spouse who is not a sole entrepreneur is considered to be the payment of the rent to the spouse and that this is even necessary to register in the income forecast. That's, I'd say actually, it's illogical that this matter is considered only real estate. [[...]] If a craftsman buys a machine, that's no problem. The only problem is in real estate. I would say that the tax authority is very selective here and I find it completely illogical because it is a craftsman, it is a family matter, and then it is considered that if both spouses are enrolled in the land book, there can only be half of them. I think that this is a senseless act and from this point of view that only that craftsman is half-owner, that his spouse is the other owner and that only half amortisation can apply and, of course, also facilitate investments, I think that is non-lifelike. It's a formal stand. Although these are not measures aimed at an anti-biocratic angle, light and direction. In particular, they are a naked formalisation and hampering of development and investment in the small sector. If there's a trade union problem, I'd say it's inappropriate. But I would ask the Ministry of Finance for a written answer, because I also have a whole bunch of documentation and I would like to respond to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I think that the specific supplementary question has been raised by the Secretary of State, Renata Vitez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u150	Our goal is certainly to go out on our website at least another week at the latest, as we say, because we want all those eligible for the invitation to tender to be able to prepare as much as possible. But the fact is, we have to wait for the budget to be adopted. But we certainly want to go out with an announcement no later than next week just so that the beneficiaries can apply qualitatively to the invitation to tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next question raises the question of Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the representatives of the government, ministers, honourable Members and Members. I have a question for you. I would like to know, like all in the Slovenian National Party, why the Republic Centre for Civil Protection, headed by Mr Bogataj with a special letter bearing the code of confidentiality, has banned the alarm of the siren in the event of a fire. In the opinion of Mr Bogotaj, this is the reason why the public should not be disturbed. I wonder if it's not right for the public to get upset in the event of a fire. In particular, the public which is directly or indirectly at risk of a fire and the public which is in charge of putting the fire out. That the matter is even stranger, Mr Bogataj has not consulted a particular expert at all. I am interested in how voluntary fire companies, which are large in Slovenia, now that the use of sirens is banned, are informed of the fire and I am interested in how many fires have been improperly extinguished due to this ban. I think it's another big mistake that could lead to a disaster, just like what happened in Logo under Mangart. I would only add this opinion; I suppose we do not want such a disaster to happen again elsewhere. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u154	Madam Vice President, Madam Ambassador! Thank you so much for asking. The issue comes from one of the many areas which are substantively, organisationally, directly linked to the Ministry of Defence. Of course, this is very widespread in the areas we are dealing with and I have to apologize to you because it is actually difficult to have an overview of all of this. We will prepare the answer in writing, in detail - do not worry. Of course, I would say that certainly no one has any such and similar letters, which must have some sense of their own - which I do not know in this case - that if there is no intention, of course, to influence that, I don't know, in this case, various such disasters and disasters would increase. Of course not. I don't know how many fires have been extinguished in later times or not at all. The question is also whether this has such a direct connection. I am sure that in modern times these societies also need to develop communication links so that they can be informed, but as we say, I will not guess and speak. We'll prepare the answer in writing. Thank you so much again for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Next up is Mrs. Silva Crnugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'm giving up the question because I've already got the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Ana Maria Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I have a question for the Ministry of Education and Sport. At the end of November 2000, all kindergartens, primary schools with adapted programmes, branch schools, music schools, youth institutions with special needs, secondary schools, student homes, higher and higher education schools adopted a letter from the Ministry of Education and Sport inviting the Ministry to sign a contract with which these public institutions, which the Ministry of Education and Sport is concerned, will be entitled to free access to the Internet. The Ministry has thus made it possible for each institution to be entitled to a telecommunications connection through which the institution will connect to entry for the provider's online point. According to our information, some 100 schools or public institutions have failed to fulfil their application for access to an internet service provider. In recent years, I have been approached by some representatives of schools in Styria who have completed their application for access to the internet service provider but up to 30.11. 2000 did not yet have ISDN and AESL connections. The Ministry has given priority to institutions with existing connections. All those who didn't have them and fulfilled their roles have started their work. They told me that this, both Internet access and ISDN connectivity for their institution, was a very large financial resource. Now, four months after the first schools are already eligible for free access, some who have rejoined do not yet have this option. Children also do not have access to the Internet due to excessive financial burden in some schools. I believe that both the Ministry and the Government must ensure that all children have equal conditions for education. I therefore ask the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport when it will be possible to ensure that schools and institutions that have completed or completed their infrastructure for connections will also have an equivalent, free access to the Internet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Stan Plevnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u160	Nicely greeted! Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament! Undoubtedly, one of the basics of this government is that we will allow all students and students free access to the Internet. There's no doubt here. But of course there are some problems in the performance itself. You have certainly been informed that the contract signed with Telekom contained a type of ambiguity. Not mainly about payment, but about ISDN connections and so on. Therefore, according to the government's decision, this sub-option is now in the revision or the Ministry of Information Society and our ministry jointly preparing the starting points for a better contract than it is. Maybe for repairs, maybe even for a change of contract. In addition, there have been some problems in the last year's budget that we were unable to obtain all the computers for primary schools, especially the so-called computer literacy project, for which we have provided funds this year and will be fully operational this year. In addition, these problems arose because some of these funds were directed by the former government to Telekom. This is also a problem we need to solve. If I finish the story, the Ministry of Information Society and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports have done everything possible to meet the basic requirement, free access to the internet for students and students. But I'm talking about access. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar would like to give an explanation, then yes. [[...]] Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u162	I would also like to add that in providing free Internet access for schools, not only the question of ISDN, I would like to limit myself not only to ISDN, but also to other forms of connection, depending on local circumstances such as cable access or other possible access. In particular, we are also preparing specific calls for the co-financing of similar networks. [[academic, school networks]] which will enable access to be faster and, of course, cheaper.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u164	No, no, no. Thank you very much. Only schools are interested in when will this be done? They also want to know if this can be answered, but if not, at least roughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Plevnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u166	It's two problems. One problem is the establishment of a physical link between these schools and adequate computer equipment. This problem, of course, requires a certain amount of money and a certain amount of time. While the network is different, as you know Arnes has been operating and the Internet has been free for some time now. The fact that all schools will be connected to this network certainly requires a certain period of time. A priority has been prepared here and at the maximum speed possible and in line with existing budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the complementary question is exhausted. Thank you very much. The next is Mr. Bogomir Zammernik, who is not. That's why I give the floor to Dr. Bernick Joseph. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable members of the government! I have two questions. The first is about road safety. We got a report saying road safety is always getting worse. That in Slovenia you are almost 100% more likely to die on the road or to get serious and easier injuries than in other countries of the European Union. Now we have quite a few repressive measures as well. In our national road safety programme, there are countless suggestions on how to deal with this. However, although this programme is extremely good, it is not implemented for lack of money, so the Minister of Home Affairs would ask this question to the Minister of the Interior. Has the budget allocated to preventive measures increased this year? What share do we have in Slovenia in comparison with other European Union countries? And how much money is there to arrange roads or where they are truly dangerous? Is it in the program - it's likely someone else will say that? Finally, what happened to the so-called Republic Transportation Police, which reportedly was very successful and also knew the problems so that they could be solved. Second question for the Minister of Health. On Saturday, I read an article he addressed, and I think Dr. Matija Horvat is wondering when things are going to be settled at the Clinical Center, because people are waiting as he says, at neglected bus stations after World War II. And in fact, from my own experience, I know if a person goes to some places of the Clinical Center, there are people being pushed and they have no dates or dates and, among other things, you don't see a lot of people wearing ties or better-dressed clothes. It is said that those who are better dressed are certainly somewhere else looking for medical help. Finally, I don't know exactly who to address this question to, because it's a celebration of the three holidays mentioned in the budget, on page 703, and it says that the three holidays, which are four, will all be in Cankar's home. Because there's no money to be in the Republic Square. One wonders how it is possible that the three holidays are on the same level and what message the government wants to give to the Slovenes. In fact, I do not think that all three holidays are at the same level and it seems to me that we are going back to Mr Thaler, the ministry that banned the celebration of this Statehood Day after the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia. As I read on the next page that there will be a celebration, I now say to you: because of the two round anniversary, I do not know which of these which require a wider scope of honour and their preparation in the Market of the Republic will be significantly higher costs of the programme. We also envisage the establishment of a special committee to honor the 10th anniversary of Slovenia's independence. I have some experience with this preparatory committee, because for the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II, the President of the Republic convened such a consultation or meeting, but nothing has happened, because the programme has already been prepared and those who wanted the programme to change into a more Slovenian and more national direction, we have learned that everything is already set and that there is no need for any change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much to the honourable Member for the issue of transport safety or safety on our roads. Unfortunately, this issue is valid and it is true that we have been slightly better in terms of traffic safety over the past few years or that it is increasing, but still with data on the number of deaths, the number of injuries on our roads, unfortunately, much below the comparable European average. Security on our roads is not yet at European level. There's more to it than that. And what the Ministry of the Interior has done is two. For the first time, we have submitted a national transport safety programme to the government for admission or in a proposal to the national assembly. Slovenia currently does not have a national programme, but is in the procedure before Parliament. The government has set a proposal for a national programme some two or three weeks ago and you will have the opportunity of parliamentarians to discuss it, form additions, proposals, in short, improve it. This national programme provides that different institutions, from civil society, the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council, will prepare their programmes or more operational plans of activities, which will include a financial aspect, necessary legislative changes and completely direct measures in terms of investments in road networks, sidewalks, cycling routes, including educational programmes, special campaigns, propaganda and the like. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior are particularly exposed to this proposed national programme. The establishment of specific national transport safety organisations is also envisaged. How much funding is available for this year, I cannot give you an answer to this moment, we can study this in particular by the ministries and prepare you a written reply, and in particular what you are asking, the comparability of investment in greater transport security in Slovenia with European countries. Such a response must only be formulated on the basis of a specific comparative analysis. However, I am convinced that this initiative to draw up operational plans within ministries will lead precisely to ministries, not this year, but to specific programmes for the 2002 budget that will address the causes of the problem of transport safety. This is also one of the purposes of going to the national programme at all. In addition, the ministries, as they now assess, will also have to make legal changes, specifically with regard to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which only has to enforce its control right in the law over roads in settlements of urban importance, cities, sidewalks, unprotected crossings and so on. This is one of the problems we will overcome by implementing this national programme. This is one course of action. With regard to the police or that part of the security we can provide along the path of repression, I would like to assess that the police are doing everything that they can and do well and effectively. Where it ends, it is the continuation of the proceedings following the application to the judges for offences. The efficiency here is unfortunately too small, a lot of procedures are outdated, procedures are too long and proposals for legislative changes of two types are being prepared here. One thing is that colleague Bizjak would be able to say more about this, a new law on offences, which I think will help to speed up the resolution of such offences in front of judges for offences. [[...]] The second is the issue related to the Road Safety Act. The Ministry of the Interior has set up a group, which is also a cross-cutting group, which is already working on amendments to the Road Safety Act. Several years of experience have shown that there will be a need to change a lot of things in this law, also to tighten penal policy and also to contribute to increased safety on Slovenian roads along this repressive route. That's all I can say. However, we will prepare an analytical basis for the numerical answers to your comparative questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u172	I apologize, honourable Member, for not being in the Chamber at all times and after telling others about it, I think that the question of the inadequacy of the current intensive therapy department in the clinical centre is still an issue. Maybe even the whole situation in Slovenia. I'd like to say this. The current section of intensive therapy, led by the writer of the letter in the Saturday annex of Dela, was opened in 1972 with a new building of the Clinical Center and was then the most modern department, not only in Slovenia, in the country and also wider. At the time when this was the most modern department, there was still today's oncology, today's pediatrics, today's neurology, traumatology. The maternity ward was new in the middle. I want to say that in the 30 years that some professions have already gained new, modern activities, we have not been able to invest those things that were needed at the time and have not received a home at the new clinical centre. It is logical that in 30 years there was distress for those institutions that were then hyper-modern. In addition, it must be acknowledged that there has been a new perspective on medicine, that intensive medicine is developing, and that it is indeed true that this department needs a thorough overhaul. This is aware of the management of the Clinical Center. It has already proposed some solutions in the past, in previous years, four, five years ago, to which the department has not agreed. Its requirements are essentially almost a new building within the clinical centre and with the latest solutions, some sales, resettlements create the conditions for us to approach the adaptation of this section. I would just like to say that in this country it is on the list of investments of 60 billion, according to the law adopted by this Parliament in the previous session and we have 4 billion budgets this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary! However, it seems to me that there is something to be done in the present situation as well. Because it's not just about changing space, it's about mentality, changing mentality, including doctors. I'm sorry, if there's one here between you, but let's just say that, like elsewhere in the world, people would come. Mommies from Dolenjska arrive at 5:00 in the morning and wait all day. I think you should think about that, too. You probably think, but I'd like to know if it's feasible, so people will suffer a little less, and that department will be more patient-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u176	I can't agree with you any more, and I almost don't know whether to say that I'm powerless at this or in previous positions. In this health sector, many of us are trying, through decrees, friendly prevention, incentives and to establish this, in the public sector, which the private doctor will know as soon as he opens his office. That basic kindness, ordering for an hour and everything. So if I'm talking about the Clinical Center, we've just set up some sample cases, there's an increasing number of outpatients where health workers are acting that way. This means that these extreme cases are being reduced. However, it must be said that for some, in part, only human reasons, which cannot be called otherwise than the weakness of the public system, simply, some things obviously take longer. If you ask me as a minister, yes, we want and have mechanisms of encouragement and also of supervision to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Sorry, Dr. Bernick, is the possibility of further questions exhausted? Not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u178	a question that no one has answered. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u179	Oh, yeah, that's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u180	at the celebrations, and I think the Secretary-General of the Government should be here because it belongs to his intervention. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick. I think the answer will be yes. Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u182	The answer that the honourable Member is likely to expect is that the members of the government that we are present cannot give an answer to this question, but the government will send you the answer in writing as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr. Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President. My question concerns the organisation and implementation of primary rescue and secondary medical services with helicopters and is intended for Mr Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health. In Slovenia, the introduction of primary rescue and secondary medical transport by helicopters has been under discussion since 1993. During that time, there was a lot of writing, several presentations, resources and equipment were made, and substantial funding from the State was allocated, with a view to the establishment of this service, and the actual implementation of rescue and helicopter transport was limited. On the other hand, we note that it is the State or the competent ministry that opposes and directly impedes any initiative of citizens who wish to establish this service. Since the beginning of the 1980s, part of these tasks, such as mountain rescue and secondary transport, have been carried out by the Air Force of the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the laws of the day, and after the independence of the Slovenian military, again on the same legal basis. The new Aviation Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 28 February 2001, prohibits the use of military, police and customs aircraft for civil purposes. In the fact that the Air Force of the Ministry of the Interior does not have a civil air carrier AOC registration, this unit does not have a HEMS certificate, does not have a valid operational manual for carrying out these activities, does not have helicopters equipped with certified medical equipment, nor does the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Slovenia have a permit for transport, for air navigation, for the use of medical equipment in helicopters. According to most of these regulations, the former Civil Aviation Act has been violated and, by all accounts, the new Aviation Act of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted and approved in February of this year. In addition to the legal barriers to such an organisation as it is, the question of the price of services is also raised. State helicopters, both military and police, were purchased by taxpayers, depreciation, fuel, servicing, salaries of pilots and aircraft technicians and all other costs are covered by the state budget. Finally, the billing price of the flight hour, which is particularly paid, is significantly higher than the price of flight hours for the civilian providers of these services. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health does not take these legal arguments into account and intends to carry out a 'pilot project' as it is called, in cooperation with the police and the military. In the context of the law, however, it rejects the primary solution with helicopters, since Slovenia does not need it. Where the responsibility of our health care for accidents such as the poisoning of Acroni Jesenica workers is more severe accidents when it was not possible to get to the scene of an accident in time and so on. The previous implementation of the Minister of Home Affairs only confirms this fact when he explicitly stated that security on Slovenian roads also deteriorates year after year. The reasonable question is whether we really do not appreciate human life in Slovenia. Despite the promises made by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health to open an international tender for the award of the primary rescue concession with helicopters and secondary helicopter medical transport, this has not happened until now. The potential providers of these services are sufficient in Slovenia for the moment. The introduction of helicopter medical services is in the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia and is also one of the requirements of the European Community. Sooner or later, this project will have to come to life, but according to the model of other European countries, not the old ones. And now it's the essential thing. At the end of last year, a three-month concession contract was awarded to the private provider of primary rescue services by helicopters and helicopter medical transport. At the time of award, it was said that an important step had been taken in the implementation of this project. After the change of government, the Ministry's response is that it is not possible to identify the actual needs for primary helicopter rescue in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore ask how it is possible for the same ministry, led by one minister, to grant concessions and under the guidance of another minister, to believe that Slovenia does not need this. Any and whose requirements are not met by the civilian provider of helicopter medical services, so that the concession contract already awarded to him cannot be renewed if he fulfils all the legal conditions laid down and has all the necessary certificates and permits to do so. How can this activity be attributed to national authorities despite the grave violation of the laws of that State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Dr. Keber, please. You can turn yourself off, Mr. Sušnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u186	So, I will try to partly answer this question, and I would like to announce that this ministry is proposing a solution by mid-May, because it is now in the capacity of this country to fully address this problem. First of all, of course, we do not oppose any operators who, under the same professional conditions, and, of course, in compliance with legislation, meet the conditions for the transport of patients who are helicopter victims, so that we have not eliminated any existing or any other provider on this basis. It is true, however, that we are considering the idea of taking into account all possible legal constraints, whether this country, which has modest resources, can provide, within a certain resource, in this case, the Ministry of Defence, Infrastructure, Pilots, Technology, Services under this budget, which is intended to train and train these people, but not as a special account, and that health care can provide the health personnel needed for helicopters. If this project were to prove viable, it would be a cost savings for taxpayers and not an increase in costs, because it would actually be two sources that each assumes its own costs. In the case of an existing contractor who has been working for three months, allow me to apologize for possible deficiencies, because I did not expect this issue to be fully, it has been shown that only to grant a transport concession does not answer the question of how this private concessionaire can attract the entire healthcare service necessary for the transport of difficult patients. And in fact, this private person, as he reports, has the greatest difficulty in attracting health workers, doctors who carried out transportation. In short, if I can, at this level, explain in writing the answer in advance and with the promise that we will explain it in more detail. This time we do not exclude anyone, we are considering the country's most favourable option, in particular for healthcare, the cheapest option and, of course, taking into account that on equal terms, everyone has the same right to run for this praiseworthy or necessary activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the next question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Just a few weeks ago, in the National Assembly, after six years of coordination of interests and professional concepts, we adopted a maritime code from the European package, which clearly prohibits the inclusion in our sea of nuclear power or nuclear weapons. The definition, which is in the maritime code, was not proposed by any of the Members or Members, but by the government itself, I suppose with full awareness and responsibility, also a higher definition of Slovenia's entry into NATO. Nevertheless, on a recent visit to the US nuclear submarine, Norfolk agreed that the maritime code had not yet been in force. In doing so, the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs expressed their surprise, even appalled Article 8 and announced an initiative to correct this Article, allowing such visits. Let me immediately say that I will personally oppose such novelties for moral and ecological reasons. However, I am asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence or the fulfilment of standards. It also assumes that the nuclear policy of the individual members of this organisation, the policy of nuclear use for military purposes, and also assumes the obligation of Slovenia to logistically support it. As far as I know, not all members of NATO don't fit in. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much to Ambassador Yuri for the question. First, I would say that NATO also has its nuclear strategy and doctrine in addition to the national one. Membership in NATO means accepting all obligations and thus the doctrines and strategies of NATO. This was a partial question if we had to agree to the nuclear policy of the Alliance. It is impossible to choose selectively which of the obligations of NATO membership we can accept or not, because we must accept everything. As regards the use of nuclear energy for military purposes, Slovenia will continue to remain a non-nuclear state. This will not change anything in this context, even after being a member of NATO and our future membership. Next I'd say nuclear weapons had a special meaning during the Cold War. After the end of the Cold War, the nuclear dimension also decreased significantly. The nuclear states have reached a series of agreements and agreements among themselves to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons with a view to reducing and destroying stockpiled nuclear weapons, as well as to strengthen various confidence-building measures that would prevent a nuclear conflict. In the spirit of these agreements and because there are no military strategic reasons for the deployment of nuclear weapons, he then committed himself, at the time of the admission of the three-thirds of the members, not to place nuclear weapons on their territory. We expect that NATO's policy of further deployment of nuclear weapons will remain the same in the future rounds of enlargement and that nuclear weapons will not be installed in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Aurelio Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u192	The next question is what happens if this strategy changes and a total adherence to nuclear policy is also required for the new Member States. That's the first one. Secondly, I had previously warned that certain members of NATO had not agreed to visit nuclear-powered ships. I've been so notified. If the members of NATO themselves have not agreed to this, why should we. Third point. I also asked this question as an advocate of our integration into NATO, but of course, I think that the answer depends on many things about defining our people and our public towards this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much. For once, it's what I said. In the new Member States, NATO is not supposed to install its weapons because there is no need for them, there are no geostrategic reasons, including nuclear weapons, they are reducing the nuclear forces themselves, so they have no intention of moving them from their current positions to new positions, because this is related to costs but not to needs. In the case - although this is now a very speculative question - what if NATO decides to deploy forces in Slovenia? The current policy of the government and this National Assembly was to join Slovenia in NATO. Membership in NATO in the final instance means accepting all obligations. If then hypothetically asked Slovenia to install nuclear weapons, Slovenia would probably have no reason to oppose it as a member of NATO. But this, as I said, is a very hypothetical and very incredible scenario, because the development of international relations is going in a different direction. The development of international relations is related to the reduction of nuclear weapons, the destruction of nuclear weapons by others in their proliferation. In current international relations, it is kind of hard to imagine that then he would spread nuclear weapons to new countries and put them in new countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. You wish to complete your response, Mr Secretary of State Dr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u196	Madam President! I'd just maybe two more, three more words to that. The Member asked how he would further inform the public about all or a variety of dimensions of the integration into NATO and the process that we are taking in Slovenia in this direction. Last week, at a meeting of the NATO Interdepartmental Working Group, which has been in operation for some time, we discussed on Friday an information communication strategy that foresees a type of activity, methods, how to make the public aware in the widest sense of what NATO membership means, what kind of obligations it brings, what kind of positive matters, etc. Here we are on one path where these activities will slowly begin to expand and increase. I'm talking about public information, not some campaign, but information. This is what is meant at this stage. This would broaden the behaviour of these processes and in this way extend the behaviour of such matters that may seem questionable and controversial, but it is not said that they are and, for example, of matters where enough information is needed to make them look normal and acceptable, if I may say so. On this issue, I might add that Nate's standards are not directly related to nuclear policy and organisation. So there is no conditional link here, there is a set of standards that relate to a wide variety of areas, not just to a narrow military and so on. During the period after the end of the government war, that is, in the 1990s, Nata’s nuclear policy was one of those that was first changed or changed by Nnato, according to colleague Žbogar. All I would add is that the strategic concept of NATO during the post-cold war period, which was particularly the subject of debate at the 1999 Washington Summit, highlights conventional armed forces, not nuclear forces. The only nuclear potential that NATO intends to retain after the Cold War, i.e. in Europe today, aircraft are bombers, but they are also decreasing, and the number of other nuclear weapons is also decreasing. It applies to both types of weapons, both conventional and nuclear, that there is a marked trend in their reduction on the basis of a number of mechanisms for international control, reduction, data exchange and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone who's left. I've been asking the question since January 23rd about the gas toll. I set it up for the government, and I wouldn't care who answered it. And they transferred it, I don't know who, to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Transport. I was immersed in the previous session, but I didn't get the answer again, or I got half the answer. Now I expect to get at least a written answer. On 20 February, I asked the Minister of Transport again. Through the Vipava Valley was made a partly fast road, which means through Ajdovščina. Those owners who did not agree with the price for that land then, after the plantation procedure, that thing stalled, but so much so that after three years they still did not get paid. It's about 12 cases. One man asked me this question, and I am obliged to answer it, so please answer that question. Best written, because it's also promised. The third question was raised last month, i.e. 20.3. As with the subsidies, from the Italian side for the highway or the fast road Razdrto Podnanos. I was talking about Italian affection, and I also mentioned the tunnel through Predel in Bohinjsk, a pardon in Tolminsk, or Bovské. I was promised to get the answer in writing, but I still haven't got it. I can't ask the main question for today, and I'm withdrawing it. I'm thinking of putting it on Mr. Digger. I had two questions, and since it's specific in nature, I have to ask it to him, and I can't ask anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Mamićm, I apologize for having already answered some of your questions, but I think the mail went either Friday or even this morning. So if there's any of them that you've put up now, we're going to answer further, but I think it's already in your mail that there's already answers. However, there is no answer for the first one, this is about the use of petrol tolar funds, the question or answer has already been prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on the Economy. However, due to certain information or ambiguity in our response, we have proposed another correction. I am sure that the answer will be answered very soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, who is absent, and last but not least, Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your word. Respectable all together. I can't help but say that my personal conviction and thinking in this direction is that the Institute of Parliament's question in the National Assembly is very misused. This can also be justified by the presence of Members themselves, the interest in these issues, for this institution. Now, I cannot say by the government, it is quite present, and the question is how many of these things are being monitored at some other level. He is also abused because the government does not actually answer individual questions. I asked some questions in January. I've already triggered a request, or I've embittered, as procedurally, that something should be done in this direction. There's nothing to be done. I don't know why we even have this institute, why we have the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, why it says there is a need to respond to the next meeting of the National Assembly, and that is correct if we are going to abuse this institution and get some irrelevant answers. I imagine that the question of emissary issues is triggered by an initiative, including to resolve a question, some clarifications and so on, but not by some dead explanations that no one is interested in. In short, I'm extremely disappointed. I have asked a number of important questions, which simply do not have some smart answers. They're very flattened, unrealistic, inaccurate and so on. I don't know if it makes any sense to keep asking questions. I think that the ruling coalition needs to be told, and let's imagine, please, also Mr Anderlich, as leader of this team, let us imagine if the institution of the question in the form we now have is even meaningful, if it makes any sense. From the protest today, no matter how long I've waited until the last, I'm not going to ask the question. However, I will analyse this even more in detail, and secondly, I will also transmit to the President of the National Assembly in writing, what has not been answered, and how he responds to these questions in a flat-rate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-17-SDZ3-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much. That's what we're dealing with. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government. However, with respect to the work of the National Assembly at 10 a.m. tomorrow, I would like to inform my fellow Members and colleagues that they will be considering 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. tomorrow at 8.30 p.m. If they are ready, tomorrow's session will begin with their consideration. Otherwise, the meeting will begin with the consideration of item 5, and the meeting will continue with item 5a and in the order in which it will proceed. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Have a nice evening. Good night.
