ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	I ask the leaders of the groups of Members to ensure the participation of Members and Members at the meeting, because we are still inconclusive. In five minutes, at the latest, I will begin to determine the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Good day, good morning, maybe, for some. I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Victory Jelinčič, Bogdan Barovič, Zoran Gračner, Dusan Vučko, Feri Horvat, Maximilian Lavrinc, Jaša Zlobec Lukič, Villa Trofenik, Leopold Grošelj, Bogomir Zamernik, Majda Zupan, Dorian Marshič for the afternoon work, Jože Ašič, Jože Spindler for the beginning of the session, Ivan Kebrič from 15.00 p.m., Alojz Peterle, Janez Janša. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. The cards are inserted and the quorum, please, if you press. There are 45 of us present. So now we've got another one, I see. I'm moving on to the conclusion two times. Now, the quorum. The third reading will be at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	We begin the third determination of attendance at the sitting. Please be careful because the current technical means require a little more attention than they have so far. Can I ask Members and Members to find out somehow that we are in our common hall where we are trying to do something today? Let's say ma'am and gentleman over there. I mean, why am I so grumpy - because you have to press. I'm the reason you can talk to each other. That we'll be done with it, you know. We're picking up the conundrum. Quorum, please press. Third time. Now I hope it works because we've had enough. I'm guessing we're 58. Praised. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Nice to meet you! Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of yesterday's closed agenda item 6 - the proposal for strategic objectives for the development of the labour market by 2006, employment policy and programmes for their implementation. The assembly will then come to the hearing of the 7th item, this is the bill on money laundering prevention, and then on the agenda, except for points 8 and 15, which we have already agreed to do on Wednesday 27.6. starting at 10 a.m. We're at 6 yesterday. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S RED remained in the presentation of the views of the members of the groups. I ask whether any of the members of the Group wishes to present their position. Here we have Mr. Visionak first from SDS. Then Mr. Delak is from Dessus. Anyone else? Yes, Mrs. Shirca. Please, Mr. Visac. SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the strategic document ahead of us, as well as the comprehensive systematic approach to one of the most pressing problems in Slovenia, this is to solve the long-term problem of unemployment, as the problems of recent years show that solving this problem is not a single, simple and short-term task, that it is a process that takes many years to solve problems that are long-term and not short-term. I therefore reiterate that in the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia we welcome such a systematic strategic approach and we will also support the document. At the same time, we also have some concerns, as well as some questions and some opinions on this document. The first thing I would say is that among those traditional problems in Slovenia that cause as much unemployment as long-term unemployment, such as youth unemployment, as well as low levels of education, low levels of education and consequently unemployment, we consider that one important segment of this unemployment and also the problem of the unemployment of parents with small families or parents who care for young preschool children and, of course, especially those children up to three years of age. In this particular regard we think of mothers, that is to say the female part of the population. Because this problem is more pressing from year to year. We know that we are in the market economy system, we know that the employer is looking at the worker primarily from this profit perspective and significantly less from a social or a human point of view, and therefore he behaves recalculated and, of course, employs the one who, at work, can no longer do so, which is certainly not the case for parents with small children, because they are often absent from work due to the care of the child, and this has a negative impact on the employment of these parents with small children. Therefore, we believe that it is very important, very important, that measures and intentions be included between activities and objectives, and of course the intention to reduce the unemployment of these parents with young children and, of course, the incentives to employ these parents. Furthermore, the strategic objectives are very well set, optimistic and welcome this approach, while we are somewhat skeptical that these goals can also be achieved. We know that, in order to implement this programme or these strategic objectives, action programmes will be written and written, of course, whose implementation depends heavily on the provision of budgetary resources. We are already witnessing the adoption of this year's budget, and I hope that in the future this will not happen again, that insufficient resources are provided for employment or for the provision of employment instruments. Here I am not just thinking about the Ministry of Labour, because this is just one of the pillars that affects employment. Above all, here I am referring to the Ministry of the Economy, in terms of opening up new jobs, in terms of providing more favourable and more inviting conditions for the entry of foreign capital and, of course, foreign investment in Slovenia, which consequently means opening up new quality jobs. Finally, there is the Ministry of Education, which has an important segment, in particular as regards retraining, as regards education and raising the educational level of the unemployed. We believe that it is necessary to ensure, in a very systematic and very coordinated manner, the means of ensuring that these strategic objectives are attainable and, of course, that these desires, which are written here, will then be feasible. This in particular in this segment, the long-term unemployed problem-solving segment, addressing the problem of unemployed young people with a low education structure. The Ministry of Labour or representatives of the Ministry of Labour would also ask, or we are interested in, this dilemma that we have witnessed in recent times. This is the dilemma of the transitional period for the free movement of labour, which has somehow been put on us by the European Union. For as long as we face a transitional period regarding the free movement of labour, we believe that this can be very strongly reflected in order to achieve these strategic objectives by 2006 in the field of employment. This document is probably written for the situation, as if we would not be in the European Union by 2006 or as if we would not be receiving the free movement of labour by 2006, which means that some of the unemployed from the border areas will be able to migrate daily to work abroad and, of course, to relieve the institution as well as budgetary resources. This is of interest to me how the Ministry of Labour looks at this transitional period of free movement of labour, whether this will have positive, negative consequences or how this will also affect this document. For we believe that if the free movement is relaxed and that Slovenia will have a strong impact on this document under this optimistic option in 2004 in the European Union and somehow free movement of labour will be released. I want to know how it affects this document and how we will fix it then. In short, we support the Social Democratic Party's proposal for these strategic objectives for the development of the labour market by 2006, employment policy and programmes for its implementation. However, I would ask that these proposals, which we have outlined here, also include the Ministry of Labour in its programmes, in particular the fact that at this meeting we will have a proposal for a law at the 10th point from which, under the amendments of the Government, subsidies for the employment of parents of young families should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Delak, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! We agree with the speakers that the problem of unemployment is a serious economic and social problem. We don't really have anything to add here. According to the methodology of the international organisation of labour, the unemployment rate is expected to be 7%. This is written in the introduction to this law. Of course, we're asking the question whether that's true. According to our estimate, these unemployed are less. Of course, we have a gray economy in mind. This raises a question, past this programme and beyond, if we are sufficiently determined to solve these problems under the current legislation. I would like to draw attention to another aspect in which we will absolutely support this national programme. In fact, employees pay contributions, which means that more employees would be employed in pension and disability insurance and in health insurance. This is certainly very important because it will facilitate the financial situation and, on the other hand, improve the relationship between pensioners and active, employees, etc. If we put aside that this is indeed an economic and social problem - as I said - and that is, of course, the main one - we should support this programme because of this financial aspect. In DeSUS this programme, we support the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The strategy for the development of the labour market and employment until 2000 is certainly one of the more optimistic points of this session. Since this is about solving the problem of eliminating and reducing unemployment, it is a global problem that is even more pressing around Europe than we are, and it is no wonder that Europe has literally mobilised in recent years to find solutions to this issue. It is clear that we will support the LDS program - who wouldn't? Perhaps the problem arises or will arise later in its implementation. In short, on the way to implementing these strategies and implementing the applications brought by this programme. The promises he makes are binding. This is about increasing the level of resources for active employment policy, providing work for young people no later than six months after the start of unemployment - very responsible tasks - it is about creating jobs, creating risk funds for the redundant, tax burdens, short-term subsidies, disseminating educational systems, etc. In short, for a strategy that affects not only one ministry, but the entire scar of Slovenian politics. In short, this strategy will only make sense if it is actually implemented. Already in this mandate, we have encountered solutions to these problems or the beginning of these problems in various laws. Nor can we deny that the practice already exists. Let us mention, for example, the question of youth employment, already a programme of the Ministry of Culture, which gives priority to employment or youth employment and the status of self-employed workers with a high priority over others, immediately for those who finish studies. If these government and other institutions truly cooperate and implement certain measures, this programme makes sense. In 2001, I should point out that Phare will be involved in the programme and the remaining European Structural Funds will be later. However, by 2003 we are expected to provide sufficient domestic resources for the implementation of development programmes. Resources in the strategy are not defined. What they are, they're not written down, they're just enough. They are expected to move closer to the EU average later. We don't know what the strategy is either. As you can see in the last chapter on resources, it is said, "it will be necessary to provide the necessary public and private means to invest in human resources". Only the possibility of introducing a tax on various solutions, such as the introduction of a property tax, the restructuring of current state aid - which we do not know - loans and so on. In short, it is understandable that it is difficult at this point to define the abstract mass because the programme deals with strategic objectives rather than measures, or primarily. We only hope that this abstract mass will not remain abstract even when the strategy has to turn into practice. The government provides and promises control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations of Mr Štemberger, SMS. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal for strategic objectives of the labour market by 2006, employment policy and programmes for its implementation. Arguments such as raising educational levels, updating education programmes, improving the situation of young people in the labour market, developing the entrepreneurial creativity of young people and many others have convinced us. At the same time, we would like to point out that we are somewhat concerned about the implementation of the objectives, which depend largely on inter-ministerial coordination between several ministries. The target of 5% unemployment by international methodology or registered unemployment rate to about 8% by the end of 2006 is optimism. However, we fear that this will not mean 1% unemployment in central Slovenia and 15% unemployment on the periphery. We would therefore like to draw particular attention to the fourth strategic objective, which is to reduce regional imbalances. Trends such as moving jobs from smaller places to larger centres, especially in the area of services provided by the State for its citizens, are just a reminder of the direct link between the 4th and 5th strategic objectives of developing the labour market. So, to reduce regional disparities and 5% average unemployment. This is where we are facing the border between an active structural employment policy, which means decentralisation of jobs, and a passive structural policy, which on the one hand means concentration of jobs and, on the other hand, the elimination of social fires in areas with increased unemployment. We'll support the program. We hope, however, that our warnings will help to achieve the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on individual chapters and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the proposal for strategic objectives for the development of the labour market by 2006 of 30.5.2001. I am putting to the debate chapter 1 and the amendment to chapter 1. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the amendment to chapter 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 34 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on chapter 1 as a whole. Please, let's vote. Of the 52 present, 46 voted in favour, three opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that chapter 1 has been adopted. We're going to chapter two. We have four amendments here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment, which is the amendment to Chapter 2.3. So we vote first on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 52 voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment to Chapter 2.4.1. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment to section 2.1.4.2.8. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 46 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the last amendment to this chapter 2 is 2.4.2.11. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 46 voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on chapter 2 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 47 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it Chapter 2 has been adopted. We're going to chapter three. Chapter 3 has only one amendment. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Please, let's vote. Of the 52 present, 50 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on chapter 3 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 51 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that Chapter 3 has been fully adopted. We move on to chapter four, where we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First, on the first amendment to Chapter 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Other amendments to Chapter 4. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 45 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a vote on the entire chapter 4. Let's vote, please. Let's vote on the whole chapter four. Of the 50 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it Chapter 4 has been adopted. We've got chapter five here now, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to chapter 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the entire Chapter 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Chapter 5 has been adopted. As you can see, we also have an amendment to amend the title of this act. Anybody want to talk about it? Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask: Does the change of title, the right government, somehow want to stress that programmes to achieve these ambitious goals are not part of the programme, or does it also want to indicate that they are rather unrealistic or that they will be more difficult to achieve? As we see that there are also programmes in the original title to achieve these strategic objectives, the revised title is "the development strategy of the labour market". Does this mean that both the objectives and the programmes are covered under the "labour market development strategy"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. In view of some of the questions raised, I would like to be able to answer them briefly, but in particular this last question. In fact, there has been a lot of talk about the implementation of this strategy, both from a financial point of view and from the perspective of the possibility or the ability of Slovenia in general to implement this strategy. We proposed a change of name for two reasons. First, to make the title of the document clear what should be in the document and, secondly, to shorten the title of the document itself, so that it is somewhere closer to what the document should actually bring. Your conclusion as to what the document brings is correct. Indeed, in this case we are talking about strategic objectives and we are talking about measures. The document, which will be submitted to this document, is already in the final stage of preparation, this is a state development programme. This document, however, includes proposals up to the level of programmes and even up to the level of projects, which are already financially evaluated and timely defined by 2006. This document, however, will be subject to action programmes of employment, which will normally be adopted every two years and annual employment policies, within or within the framework of budgetary options. Well, and the answer to this question, or even some earlier, is that this state development programme, which is in fact already an implementing document of the objectives set out in the strategy, also identifies the resources that Slovenia is expected to draw after 2004, when it is supposed to become a member, for this area; the source of this in Europe is, as a rule, the European Social Fund. Therefore, this document only includes the necessary definition of where the necessary structure is established. We estimate that this structure is likely to have to be set up this year and the following year; that some pilot projects could already be launched in 2003 in the sense that, after 2004, everything must actually be done in order to do so. Well, and given that there has also been some background to the dilemmas surrounding resources coming from Europe, I must stress that the area of human resource development, or some of our actions included in this strategy, are already being implemented through the Phar programmes in 2001, 2002 and 2003. So some of the measures that are written in are not only the letter on paper, but they are implemented. Of course, depending on the size of the funds, to what extent and for what period they can actually be implemented. So those more specific programming documents follow this strategic document. Thank you. Perhaps only the answer to a question concerning the issue of labour funds. Given that it was, somewhere, a day as a proposal, an initiative. We did not include the funds of work in this document because they are included in the Employment Act, and this is already cited as a legal basis. Of course, the labour funds remain even the only or the most effective instrument for restructuring our economy in terms of solving these potential or actual surpluses in companies. So this is certainly an instrument that we keep and even develop slightly in terms of solving the problems already being pointed out this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	I would warn you that now is the debate on the title. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There's only one question I'd have to ask you about. So whether this state development programme is supposed to be this implementation part, if I understand exactly what you are preparing and will prepare, whether it will be accepted by the national assembly or accepted by the government. Because now we see that from the strategic objectives, somehow these implementation issues are somehow left to this state development agenda and I wonder whether we will see it in Parliament or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	The procedure is very interesting. The National Assembly, it seems to me that it is not competent to adopt any strategy, does so by the government. The National Assembly, however, usually adopts national programmes. But that was on the agenda, so you'll probably explain that too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you. The State Development Programme is somewhere a common document, a development document of this country by 2006. The holder of this preparation is the Ministry of Economy, which co-ordinates work in all five priority areas. And one of the components is a set of human resources development, which is covered as a load of our ministry. Well, and given that it is a strategic document that will have some consequences, including financial ones, by 2006, I predict that this document will also be dealt with in Parliament. Now the question is whether it is at the assembly itself, but certainly at least in the working bodies. But I don't know the whole process of acceptance now, until it will, because this is just a work version, which is now only in coordination within the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the title? Nobody else, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote on the title. About the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 48 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the act, this amendment and thus the title of the act have been adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading act is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. If I correctly understood the drafter of the law when he was introducing the law, he wanted to say that he proposed that the State Assembly should adopt a decision to draw up a law for the third hearing of the Government in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	All I can say is what's written, what's meant to say, well, of course, it's none of my business.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	In this case - if I may, Mr Vice-President - I propose, as Chairman of the Committee, that the National Assembly adopt a decision to draw up the text of the national programme or, as is now the case with the new title, a strategy, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Therefore, the first decision would be that the third hearing should be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure. Isn't that right, Mr. Brenčich? Second, this act is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This would be the subject of a vote. Can we vote on this? Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 50 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - another defends the bill on the prevention of money laundering. At the same time, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government for their explanations on the previous item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government officials have just arrived and I welcome them very much. I'm asking if you want a word. Yeah. Please, Mr. Stroligo. Mr Stroligo, Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members! According to the conclusions of the National Assembly, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering for second reading. In doing so, we have examined the comments made by the Secretariat of the National Council for Legal Affairs and have also taken approximately half of these comments into account, as is also evident from the arguments and from the material. Those we didn't, we just argued that we wouldn't, and we explained that. With regard to my contribution today, I just want to say a few words about the amendments. As you have seen, the government initially prepared 25 amendments to the bill, two of them later - since the competent financial committee and monetary policy have also adopted four of its amendments, the two amendments have been withdrawn by the government, so the 23 amendments of the government are now before you. It does not appear to be such a large number, given that there are as many as 15 amendments as 23 relating to the inclusion of tax advisers among those bound by this law and, of course, to the harmonisation of the 15 articles and the addresses of certain chapters for this reason. The three amendments relate to the revaluation of the amounts to identify the parties and to the communication of certain transactions. This is because these amounts contained in the law are based on a recommendation or a directive, a European Union guideline, and therefore, because of the euro rate, this has to be harmonised. Next. The three amendments relate to the obligation of the debtors or organisations referred to in Article 2 of the Act to appoint not more than one representative, but to have one representative and to cooperate with the Office several alternates or one or more alternates. At the end of the two amendments relating to two categories of debtors. The point is that in the second reading, the government decided to remove these two categories from the law. It's about lawyers and notaries. This is mainly due to the failure of the European Union to harmonise the directive at this point between the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament. It does not appear that, at the time of the adoption of this law, the European Union could be harmonised on these points, nor did it make sense to resolve this area in our way, in particular or otherwise, as Europe will save in this document, in this law. The last three amendments, however, refer to some technical improvements in the text and the addition of some of the solutions already made. These are amendments regulating the status of the Office, amendments relating to the speed of action in the event of temporary suspension of transactions and that these deadlines do not bind only the debtors and the Office, but also the other bodies involved in the case of a reasonable suspicion of money laundering. Here I am thinking mainly of the police, the state prosecutor's office and the court, that these too are bound to act quickly in the event of temporary suspension of transactions. The amendment relating to keeping records was also clarified in this regard. So much for the amendments themselves. Let me also say that, with regard to the amendments of the Committee, the Home Committee - it is four amendments - that they are prepared with the proposer so that the Government supports these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who has considered the draft law as a parent body to present the Committee's views. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has carried out a second reading of this law. In doing so, we have found that, in accordance with the two conclusions adopted and the position of the National Assembly, the applicant has prepared the text of the second reading law and has not exceeded these powers in this respect within the context of editorial powers. At the same time, after general consideration, the Committee considered and voted on all amendments tabled until the time of consideration by the Committee and supported the amendments of the Government to the following Articles: Articles 2, 5, 10, 12, 13, 16, 18 and 24, to the title of the fourth Chapter, to the 27th Article, to Title 2 of point 4 of Chapter, and to Articles 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 45. He also supported the amendment for the new 47.b Article and prepared or supported the withdrawal of amendments by the proposers to Article 47 and Article 47a, and at the same time proposes that the assembly should adopt, in accordance with what I have just said, amendments to the Committee. For the new Article 38a, the amendment to the title of the new Chapter 5a, the amendment to the new Article 38b and the amendment to Article 47. The Committee also adopted the decision proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. In order to ensure that the third consideration of the draft law is carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please. Representatives of parliamentary groups, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. Procedural first. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. Please let us vote on this decision. Let's vote please. I find that 39 Members and Members are present. I can see there are a few more of us. I ask those who are close enough to join us. Please, if we can vote now. First, let's see how many of us there are, then let's move on. Second time I figure out the conjunctivities. We're going to figure out the conjunctivities, let's say the quorum. I think there was something wrong now. If I counted it right, we should be in Chamber 47. So I hope you won't mind if we repeat this vote so that we don't get too complicated right now. I'm sorry, but I'm just asking you to be careful. So we're voting once again, or the quorum for the conclusion. We're picking up the conundrum. Look, please, if you press. [[46 present.]] I'm guessing we're on the clock. Now we can vote on this procedural decision. So we're voting on the decision I just read. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 45 votes in favour, one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2001, this is a material with eleven pages, as you can see. And we're moving on to article-by-article treatment. We have one amendment to Article 2. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 2. Let's vote, please. 45 present, so we're not concluding. Once again, I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues in the building to come to the hall before the next determination of their presence. I think we're 47, so I suggest we just vote again. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 2 as a whole. Let's vote, please. The conclusion is so on the edge that it is now very important. Of the 47 present, 44 voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We move on to Article 5 where we have one amendment. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. We're back to 45. I can see there's 45 of us going in and out. I just can't stop it. I'm just warning you, this is going to be very late. So, once again, we are voting, secondly, on the amendment to Article 5. Let's vote, please, now. Of the 49 present, 43 voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote, please. [[43 present.]] We repeat the vote on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote please. [[44 present.]] The third vote will be held at 11.32 p.m. At exactly 11:32, there will be a third vote, after the hour, which is visible here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the third time we have voted on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote, please. [[Now it's not working. Can I ask the techniques to see what's on this thing? Now it will be.]] So let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. The next amendment is on a special paper sheet, which is an amendment to Article 7, and has been tabled by LDS, Consolidated Lists, SLS and DeSUS. Did you find this? So, I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 7. Who wants a word? Government representative, Mr. Stroligo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just enough to say that we support this amendment on behalf of the proposer. It is a solution to the problem that has proved to be a follow-up after the government has already sent the material, and I think it is more lifelike than the solution that is in the material itself. As explained, it is a problem of determining the origin of money, but not from the customer, but only from the documentation, which is the only logical one. So we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 7. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 45 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We move on to the 10th article, where we have one amendment. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote please. Of the 49 present, 43 voted against, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 0.]] I understand that Article 10 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 12. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendment to Article 12. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 43 voted against, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 12 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 45 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it that Article 12 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 13. There's also an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 13. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote please. Of the 53 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it that Article 13 has been adopted. We're at Article 16. We have an amendment here. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 16. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it that Article 16 has been adopted. We're at Article 18. We have an amendment here. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 18. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 46 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 0.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 45 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 0.]] Article 18 is hereby adopted. We move on to paragraph 24, and there's only one amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We can conclude the debate and move to a vote. We therefore vote on the first amendment to Article 24. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 45 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 0.]] The amendment was accepted. Let us vote on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 45 voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it that Article 24 has been adopted. Here we have an amendment to Article 25 on a special paper sheet. It's not on the dishes yet, is it? This is an amendment by the SDS Group of Members. It's pretty short. In Article 25, the text "and the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia" shall be added at the end of the sentence in front of the dot. You want us to wait until the amendment is on the table? Now it will be divided, while, if I saw correctly, Mr Jerovšek would like a word on this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The amendment we have tabled is, of course, quite short and relates to the reporting of the money laundering office. This Article, in its text, provides that the Office shall report its work to the Government at least once a year. We think that this is insufficient, because we need to look a little bit at the practice and support that the Anti-Money Laundering Office has so far had by the current government and by the previous governments under the same prime minister. We know that the office has previously received full-footed government support rather than government support. And that, at least that's how it was rustling and never demeaned, in some cases it happened that individual ministers were unauthorizedly involved in the work of the Money Laundering Office, demanded reporting, completely unauthorized, and thus prevented some of the actions of the Office that could have been successful. We also know that the Office, in its work so far, cannot show some results on the basis of the Government's lack of political will, that it could carry out its actions and that it could have the assistance of the Government. For this reason, Article 25’s dictated that it should report once to the government and not report to Parliament, for example, is completely insufficient. Indeed, we must also remember that, from these two years, I think, in a particularly original way, it has prevented the ratification of the Convention for one year, I think that the Council of Europe resolution or the Convention on the Prevention of Money Laundering. When the ratification process was completed, the text of the resolution was mistranslated. We know that this is a well-known matter of 'in and or', which has delayed the ratification of this Convention for a year, making the work of the Office more difficult and preventing money laundering on the ground of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore imperative that at least Parliament receive a report and that the Office also report to Parliament, because without the political will to show that in this country there is an interest in these crimes, it is the money laundering, but we know that much is right on our soil, they are preventing it. I think we will unanimously support the fact that, once a year, we also listen to the report in this House, and we will have a debate on this report. From this place, I would also ask the director of the office to explain to us what was the intervention of Minister Rop in the case of Šuštar, when the Director had to report to the Minister on the matter and what, as the media said, was in order to prevent the work of the Office and was completely unauthorized and certainly had negative consequences for the successful resolution of the problem of Šuštar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you. We are talking about the amendment to Article 25. I'm asking the government representative if he can give his opinion on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the proposer, we oppose this amendment for several reasons. Let me just mention a few of these. The Office shall be the body of the Ministry of Finance. A comparative legal review of all current offices is 58 in the world. It shows that no such office reports on its work to Parliament, none alone. Another time. The reasons for this are, of course, different. Offices in the world are placed in different institutions. As in Slovenia, the largest number is within the Ministry of Finance. In some cases they are police authorities, i.e. in police composition, sometimes they are composed of the Ministry of Justice or the prosecutions or the courts; they are rarer arrangements where the body is composed of banks, central banks. The reasons why they do not report to Parliament are of a substantive nature and are the following. Part of the Office covers both the area of prevention and the area of repression. If we were to do so, it would be about as if we were to demand that, say, a police department, say, some special department for organised crime dealing with a similar work as half of the office, report to Parliament. I think that Parliament should be interested in the whole issue of money laundering, and this is not a report on the work of the Office, but this is a report on the issue of money laundering, which is, of course, part of the problem of organised crime. And, as you know, this Parliament, or in its previous session, has decided and adopted positions on the fight against organised crime, because it is necessary to know that the mere reporting of the Office of Parliament would make no special sense. The Office is only one of the authorities involved in the anti-money laundering project. The other bodies in this project are all financial and non-financial organisations cooperating with the office, and secondly, the police, the prosecution, the court. So if only the reports on the work of the Office were to be given, if we were talking about substantive reasons, of course this would be very incomplete information, half-information, which could be based on certain things or on other things, which would not be correct. Next argument. I think that the assumptions made by the Member of Parliament for the work of the Office are also in writing first, since the government has not shown such results in its work so far. I don't think that's true. Not only is this my assessment as Director of the Office, given that I have been in this office since the beginning and have been leading it for the seventh or almost eight years now, but I should say that all evaluations of the international institutions, in particular the Council of Europe, based indeed on detailed, non-comparative assessments, both the assessments of the European Union, through the Phare programme, the UN's latest assessment, have been extremely commendable both on the activities of the Office, on the results of the Office and on the legislation we have in this area, which is the competence of the executive and the legislative authority. I say this because I think it is right for Members to know that the Office, on the basis of the data it collects - this is the data on the overall fate of all matters dealt with in the area of money laundering - has produced an assessment of the problems in Slovenia. And these problems are not government or legislation problems, but they are mainly problems with the slowness of criminal proceedings. Some of the reasons for this slowness were also subjective. At the time of the last report on the Office's work, the Government adopted conclusions that, through the Department of Justice and also through the cooperation of the Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court, all these bodies, each within their competences, should do so without any delay in dealing with specific cases in the area of money laundering. That's what law requires. Legislation requires urgent treatment - I am talking about the law on criminal proceedings. So if I look from the point of view of the government, what she can do, she's actually exhausted her options. Even this law, what this law regulates, solves the problem of detection, but does not solve the issue of the prosecution, the trial - what we talked about, if you remember, in the first hearing. I think the following assumptions, which have been verbally spoken, that someone would throw prey under my feet, must say that I have no such experience. Never before in seven years has a minister interfered with the work of the office, but I've put a few of them through not one single minister, which is also the last thing you mentioned. I wouldn't want to comment on that in detail, because I don't think it's the right place. If you wish, the information given to Minister Rob was given on my initiative, on the basis of the obligation I have under law to report on more important matters to the Minister of my work, on the area of my work. So I think that was already clear, publicly explained. There have been no unjustifiable actions here. I can also say that if there were unjustifiable, unlawful acts, he would be the first to oppose them publicly or in any other way. As far as the results are concerned. I think that last year's work results, which have also been published so statistically, in all areas, indicate greater efficiency, an increase in the number of applications, an increase in the number of cases, not only by the Office, but also by the other authorities, the Golden Police. So it would be difficult to agree with your assessment that the system is not working. I think it works fine, of course it needs to be corrected, some of the corrections are written in the law, and some of them, as I said earlier, come from the activities of other bodies, which should also be encouraged to carry out their work in accordance with the rules. Also on the last argument that has been made regarding the ratification of the Convention. You know for yourself that the National Assembly has spent a day and a half on the problem created by the convention's error. I must say, it has also later been shown that in practice, due to subsequent ratification, the Convention was not problematic in any single case, so that it could not be resolved. Of course, let's leave it on the subject now, is it for the good of the country's mirror within the Council of Europe, if it makes such a kick and I say, then it fixes it later, that, of course, I'm not dropping it, probably wasn't very pleasant, even for us who represent this country in the Council of Europe, in the field of this Convention. If I shorten it, one more time. I don't think it would be wise, and the wrong signal would be given out of that country, in order for the only office in the world to report to Parliament, even for that reason, which should have no authority over the body, the bodies in the body should be independent, they should be more independent. I think that, through the supervision of this office, it is within the Ministry of Finance that this is a matter of budgetary control, which is respected, it is a matter of government control, not least the Office reports to the government and has done so regularly, but also partly this law stipulates that it must report its work to the public with information that is not confidential and we have already done so. I think that, within these existing control mechanisms, a sufficiently high degree of independence of the Office is ensured, regardless of who leads it or who runs it. I think that's proved to be true by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'm surprised at the Director Strolig's response. The fact is, in my opinion, the results are not what they might be. And I've just been, until now, I've lived in the belief that there is great will in this office, but there are reasons that we don't have a final effect, which would also appear in solved cases through the courts, because I don't just take it as your fault, but the fact that these results are little at the time of this office's operation over a few years. Now after your performance, I am sure that you have gone through a thorough process in cases such as the case of Šuštar, and that there is a clear fear in this country that this area would be truly effective and effective. I almost do not believe that data would be the only country to listen to or submit an annual report on the work of the Office. This is not interfering with the work of the office. We also receive annual reports from a number of other bodies in the composition of ministries on a table, in the operation of, say, an agricultural land fund and something like that. And there will be nothing contrary to the practice of this country. However, I assure you that your position will be strengthened if the government also has a supervisor over it. And he has to have a supervisor. There are so many cases -- unfortunately, maybe all governments around the world are such -- that the government is trying to get rid of all control in every way. Isn't the case of the Ministry of Economics screaming enough into the sky? There's always been an assurance that everything's okay there. Now we see, not just through the case of Schuštar, through other cases, that there are literally corruption in the ministries. And high levels of officials in this country have been affected by corruption. I think that Parliament is the only institution that is willing to fight against this state's action in this area. I expected, Mr Stroligo, that you might say that this is not the right place and that you have a modified way of proposing to us. In fact, this amendment was prepared relatively quickly when I noticed that such a report or such supervision was not envisaged by Parliament. But once again, I insist that it is not true that this would be bad for your work and that it would mean any interference that would even give us the criticism of the European Union. I believe you've been commended, at least we have things arranged legally, only the results are missing. And the results are lacking because the government does not feel pressure to do anything. However, we know how fragile and violent it is to try to eliminate any negative opinion or conditional opinion made by the Court of Auditors concerning the ministries. All attempts have been made. And only in support of your work will it be if once a year such a report is addressed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. I'm asking the debaters for a more careful choice of words. When it comes to alleged crimes, it must be said that they are suspected. Otherwise, reference should be made to the judgment of the court and so on. So I ask for the correctness of the debates. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	This is one of the typical debates in this amendment, which speaks of one branch of government actually wanting to regulate things that the other branch of government has to regulate. Reports from offices, reports from various agencies and various things that are regulated by the Government Act and that the government has the power to do so and is responsible for all these things go beyond what is supposed to be in terms of the division of power. Here comes the third, when, for example, the findings of this office also serve for certain proceedings before the courts. That is why I think it would be wrong to agree to the thesis that this office should now report on a mandatory basis, that tomorrow will be the Youth Office, that tomorrow will be the Office of Drugs, and so on. It is only with the law on government and with responsibility, with transparency, that it is right for this office to report to the government. It is clear, however, that the home labour force and the national assembly may at any time, within the competence of any area, request a report, receive a report and adopt certain positions relating to the exercise of the powers, tasks and so on by any office. That is why I cannot support this amendment. And even if it looks like I'm advocating non-transparentness and I don't know what I want to do, so that something doesn't go public and so on, it'll be an argument, I know, I'm sure that this kind of debate can be expected. I also think that in the second reading we really need to talk about only the amendment, but not the general issues. I'd say the following about the illustration. Look, we have a report from the prosecution and a variety of other reports, which we accept in a very routine way and it's a whole bunch and so on, and I've never seen in all this time that reports coming into the National Assembly, after a defolk, after a routine, because it has to be reported on the basis of certain laws in order to really produce any results. But we're getting a bunch of reports that I'm not talking about the reports we're getting from the agency, and I think it's about auditing, and so on, whole piles. But indeed, in our work, in the work that is important for the adoption of legislation, for the adoption of frameworks, the conditions in which the Office is to work in this case have no particular connection. I think that this law needs to fix those weaknesses that have hindered the Office in even more efficient work, but not to extend things to areas that are not, in my opinion, at least not the jurisdiction of the National Assembly at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	I am not surprised at Mr Anderlich's performance, but I think he was somewhat clumsy in defending the current situation and talking about the powers of the government and the responsibilities within the government, the responsibilities and transparency of the government. Look, Mr. Andrelich. I would not expect you to come forward with such arguments this week after the referendum, which plebiscitefully rejected the will and which actually gave one point to the minister. Look, with regard to objective responsibility and the attitude towards responsibility, our government is something special in Europe. Ministers don't feel responsible for anything here. With such a result from a plebiscite, the driver of a referendum, the minister would have resigned from the truly responsible governments at a time when the partial results would have been known. Everyone's telling us how totally fine that is. I'm glad the minister stays like this because he's lost his credibility and won't be able to rule. But if you want to rule with such a government, rule. And here you have cited these arguments as being within the government. Because of our objective responsibility, no one resigns. And since objective responsibilities, even more, are also due to subjective responsibility, which, for example, is indisputable in the Ministry of Economic Activities, no one feels obliged to give up. And how, then, can you say that there are enough control mechanisms and that our government will take care of this? I agree. If we had a government based on European criteria, that would be just enough. Unfortunately, we're not that far away. I'm afraid we're not that far. Also, your observation when you got your hands on the order, how we routinely accept them. It's partially worthless. But why do we accept them so routinely? Go back to yesterday. This is the "pok" we had the amendments prepared by the government Members. And the boards have been dealing with them, with this "spy," I'm gonna say bad. And five minutes before the hearing, they were all removed in a row. Isn't that "fucking" the state choir, wasting your time and all? On government proposals, so many amendments were made by government MPs, and then we turned. How long it's been gone. And not to report that no, of course not, because we have a government like this and that's how you work. [[...]] However, if our voters could adopt more things and more laws at the referendums, I do not advocate a referendum every Sunday, but on Sunday you saw what happens if you rape Parliament and the people. And that is why I am convinced that such things are necessary and there is a need for movement in the area of money laundering and crime of white collars. It's absolutely necessary. And don't fight it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you. We are talking about the amendment to Article 25. Does anyone want a word about the amendment to Article 25. Mr. Anderlich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	At the first intervention, I spoke exclusively about the amendment to Article 25 and I will now. Because I am sure that about what Mr Jerovšek was talking about, and I should have replicated it to correct the wrong statements he made - because, of course, this does not even apply to this point - there is no need to speak here. However, when this is on the agenda, we will correct these misstatements, or we will say them as they should be. It surprises me, Mr Jerovšek, that you, as a well-known fighter for a new arrangement, for a democratic arrangement, so to speak, turn to arguments that are typical of ten years ago, from a pure assembly system, where we, as a congregation, according to yours, will order what the office has to do, the office will report, and so on. No, by dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial, by legislation that has divided responsibilities, it has given powers and so on, the situation you are talking about has been overcome. This was the situation of the previous decade, where the national assembly or the previous congregation gave instructions, the executive council carried them out, and, of course, this executive council then reported to the national assembly or assembly that said yes, okay, or, of course, it was not right. Once again, the powers of law are regulated as in, say, parliamentary democracy. You, the working body, the national assembly, can at any time request, and you will also get, from the government, all reports for her work, so that you can make quality decisions so that you can also prepare interpretations and I don't know what else, because when we talk about responsibility, this is what you will always be able to get. And this mechanism, of course, excludes those who say that they automatically have to do all the national assembly. Then, if we agree to the logic you are talking about, in another system, we are not in a parliamentary system where the National Assembly adopts legislation, adopts frameworks, and the government exercises them with its powers; it establishes offices, establishes, I don't know, everything it needs to carry out some tasks. And he also sets up human resources solutions, takes reports, pulls down, and I don't know what, and so on. Otherwise, of course, I believe we are at another time. But then you will take responsibility for this work if you get married if you are who you are I don't know what the purpose of this reporting is in the way you advocate? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. I would like to remind you that I have a duty to remind every debater to discuss the amendment to Article 25 on the question of whether the Office should report to the National Assembly. It's a topic, and I'm asking you to stick to it. Mr. Bernick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that we should almost have found a mechanism to get reports from the government about how this money laundering scene is managed. In fact, this is a global problem and it is certainly very critical in some countries, we do not know whether it is true or not. However, it seems to me that this area will still be very topical in the future. Look, the office gives them every year statistics on the work of the office over the period and I don't think it would be wrong if it was available to the public, it wouldn't be bad for this report to be extended to substantive matters, because we can't assess how this office works and how this law is implemented. Let's just say that we have information here about what was done by the office and how many complaints were made, that she was reported 27 in 2000, but that doesn't say why none of these complaints came to the final verdict. And there are also questions or questions as to whether they are guilty of this information given by the Office, are guilty of this prosecutor who did not properly present this or are skilled lawyers, some of whom could have been paid with money that was laundered, and this has in fact already occurred in some countries. The question of the extent to which a lawyer can accept money laundering from a person convicted of money laundering. Because it's laundry money. Well, we probably haven't had this in Slovenia yet, but it would be good to think about it. But I can tell you that there's some data that I've been told that there would not be a report in the National Assembly because the government would not be given the same report as [[?]] It is said that it has classified information, but it seems to me that the government could find one way to suggest it or how to inform the national assembly. Today we get all kinds of data on the Internet and the audience can read it, for example, in the United States, the data stored by state agencies, as opposed to, say, insurance companies, the banks they are investigating are available online. And it seems to me that this is also important or more important for people who have to make decisions about laws than it is for the public. In a way, this should be settled or at least as Mr Anderlič suggested that it should be put into law, so that such a report should be sent to the competent working committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. I think in this debate, he's "stacked two cars." In fact, Mr Anderlich, you said that if we accepted this amendment, we would order what this office would do. That was literally what he was going to do. I think this is the wrong show. I don't understand it that way. But this office will still do as it thinks it must do, or as the government will tell it to do. Which is just fine. However, he will only report to us on these results achieved by the Office and nothing else. How they're going to do what they're going to do is something else. That's what they say. It has nothing to do with the instructions on how to work. Maybe you should give some instructions. But that wasn't meant to be. There's no record of this in this amendment. If anyone sees such fear, then please alert the applicant. But I didn't notice it myself. It is only a report on how he worked, according to whose instructions - this is something completely third. Just what he was doing and how he was doing and when he was doing something, that's probably part of the report. That's that first car. And the other is the car. Here you object to the adoption of the amendment if you want to get involved in their work, or we will order what to do - literally. Then, a little later in the debate, you said that the working body responsible for this could always ask for it. What, then, is not getting involved in the work or ordering what to do? But it's not like that. The working body will also be able to demand the same, just a report. I don't think the working body can ask them what methods to use. That's true, it can't go into the content, it can only go into the report. That's what you say. That's exactly the same thing. By making the working body, I'm going to say that one level is lower than the national assembly, if that's how we take it, if that's what this is all about. So that I wouldn't now discuss what's higher now, so that no one would replicate me, I didn't mean it in that sense. There's more to it than that. Perhaps what you said, Mr Anderlich, I have to agree with you here that we are getting a lot of reports. Some of them are mandatory, and some of them are voluntarily sent to us by the institutions, which I think is also to say hello. Of course, everyone does what they want. However, we can ask ourselves, those who are required, whether they are still needed, or whether we are not getting material that is less important for the National Assembly, but those that are more important, we are not getting it. Among these is certainly the area of money laundering, which is certainly one of the most important reports, and it would be right to receive it and perhaps reintroduce it as mandatory, but some of which are mandatory, could say that it can only be reported, but it is not mandatory. It is probably with the development of society that certain things became relevant only a few years ago. For example, computerism, such as what computer system has become up to date just maybe 10 years ago, I am talking about Slovenia. It is said that we could not have it already embedded in a congregational system because it is modern technology. It's the same with money laundering. This area is also being established in Slovenia only recently. It wasn't possible before. Therefore, it would be good if we put on a life-saving and full-blown report, which is mandatory for Parliament, I would say more about the importance of life, including our work. Some people would have given up. Some new areas would be reintroduced as mandatory. And that's one of those areas. And I see this amendment in that sense. No involvement in someone else's work, but just a report on how he did it. By order of someone else, probably, or by your own imagination. That's how I see this amendment. And, of course, I'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich constantly surprises me. He knows these eight months when he acts as the leader of such a parliamentary faction, which has absolute power. It appears he's become immune to all arguments. In his performance, he said he wouldn't answer the wrong line. I believe, and he didn't answer either, because there were no wrong arguments in my performance earlier. And I have to answer his misrepresentations. Look, Mr. Anderlich, you have characterized me as a fighter for a new arrangement. Back then, in 1998, 1990, I was new, and now I am fighting to see that such an arrangement, which we adopted with the Constitution, would actually apply. But you have become, or your political option has become a fighter for a new old arrangement. And you have given good association to the executive council and to the congregation. In fact, recent attempts, as well as actual practice, have been that this national assembly has turned largely into a congregation where you consulted on previously commissioned solutions. And you're with the so-called coalition constitution that changed the right constitution, which is yes, that's right. [[...]] A well-known publicist, Dr., has orchestrated this coalition contract of yours. This is a coalition treaty that has become a coalition constitution and you have successfully fought for a new old arrangement. For this reason, I would ask that you do not preach to me about the previous arrangement, for I have never been in favor of that arrangement, and I am not now. That is why I am also with such amendments that all institutions in such a country will actually do their work, which goes according to the laws and the constitution. You also indicated that Members can be asked to report at any time by the Government. What we demand and what is important, we do not receive, even though it has been promised. Again we do not get a polybarometer, there is a poll on the public opinion paid by the budget, which is so widely used by the government and the leading party. Look, if that were to happen, they would also send us surveys on how people would vote in this referendum. But they were ordered. And because they all had orders, and it was a lie. And false polls were made, manipulative polls [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, let us limit ourselves to the debate which is encouraged by this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	All I have to do is answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	No, I'm really asking you to limit yourself to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	No, I must tell you that in your performances you have shown twice that you have not yet looked at the results of this referendum, that you have not yet seen yourself. And you're talking about the previous system. This referendum has just shown that people are not for the previous system that you want to bring back. In fact, in the future you talk about how this system should work, so that such devices will also have some effect. That's what I'm up for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. If permitted, Mr Strolig would either replicate or perhaps tell some of his opinions, in the part where he spoke about how external observers also said from the European Community, they positively assess our institutional arrangements and the system itself of all controls in money laundering or money laundering prevention, as well as how they positively assess all these reports. I believe that this is true, and I know that such reports have also been written outside, but the second question is what is the reality and what is the situation that you and all the institutions that exist in this country have written in the reports, and that someone has had this opportunity to review and also to make an assessment. The actual situation, Mr Stroligo, let us all admit together, is different, completely different. We have money laundering not only at the government level, as we have seen, from public funds, from the budget, but it is a whole series of money laundering in economic operators, in para-state institutions and so on. So it's huge, but you're never going to find out because you can't find out because it's too complicated and because it's too personal, from one to the other, and you can't reveal it. But that's a lot. Corruption is huge all over the world. And those reports you've written, and what we find is that there's no corruption, and so on, that's not true! That's not true, that's a fact. Besides, I understand you and I know that you're trying to make these things positive, but I also understand that you're in the midst of some government bike and para-state institutions and that you can't do a lot of things, even if you want to. It's only so that it doesn't turn out that we're the most ideal country and that we don't have some corruption. That's not true, and we all know that's not true, but there's nothing we can do. As for Mr Anderlich, who spoke so vehemently about how everything works, how we have different institutions, from the government to all other bodies within the government, as well as other institutions, from the judiciary to and so forth, which are supposed to work in a coordinated manner, because this is an old story, we have already talked about it many times, or we have already argued. [[...]] However, these institutions do not always work effectively. And now you're putting all this on someone else, "they'll already do it, and what you're interested in about these things, they'll already do it," but, look, if you want to make these things work out effectively, if you can't fix it, if you know that there's a problem, but you can't handle it, it's the State Assembly who says to the government, government, thank you, thank you, you haven't done what you can, we're putting you off. But of course you won't quit the government if you set it up. And that's now, you know, and I know that it's a complicated circle or a vicious circle, you set it up, you're not gonna stop it as long as it lasts. But questions can't be solved. And here I see also the institution of a Member, not as a national assembly, but as an institution of a Member who is supposed to be that representative of the people, who remains the only one to be somehow untouchable by authority, untouchable by authority, so that he can hope for things or should have the right to expose all these irregularities that are taking place in this country and therefore not be sanctioned. However, it also happened that you "took the fliers" to the Members' mouth by allowing them to actually be criminally responsible for the vote they make in the national assembly or in the working bodies and are being civilly sued, because they may have wrongly convicted someone of committing a crime or whatever. This should not happen to a Member and a Member should be the only representative who should not be punished to raise a question and when a Member raises a question, all the authorities in charge of taking action in that State should take this into account and determine whether it is actually justified that a Member has asked or is not, and then also resolve that question. You see, that's not it. But that's not gonna happen, and it won't be for long. That is why this institute would be able to obtain this report from the National Assembly and to be able to look at or individual Members would not be wrong. I wouldn't be wrong. It is not said, however, that we should discuss this in a special way and, in general, so much so that he would be informed and that if he felt an interest, someone interested in it would look into these things and perhaps ask a question. That's all this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Dr. Bayuk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I follow, I am listening to this debate, and I am not clear, and I would also like to ask for an explanation from the government, the government representative and my colleague, Mr Anderlic, if there is actually some substantial argument that an annual report would not come to the National Assembly. Of course, Mr Anderlich's argument doesn't make sense to me, but if we get what we're going to get, we get a lot, and we don't do anything. This seems a little vague to me and, of course, I also don't understand his argument, but here is the executive power, here is the national assembly and we mustn't mix these things up. I don't understand. It is true that, as this amendment is proposed for Article 25, it could be understood that the National Assembly would expect this office to keep reporting to the National Assembly and then, if understood, then I can understand the Government's argument that this does not happen in the world. Apparently, no one in the National Assembly expects the office to report in some way on a permanent basis to this congregation. But I don't see, really, I haven't heard any argument once about what should be in these reports so that it shouldn't come here. Since the arguments so far, despite the fact that the debate has gone one way or another, we have not heard them. I would like to explain whether you actually have problems and, in principle, you are opposed to the fact that the National Assembly would receive this report at all, or whether it bothers you that it might be understood here that reporting would be in some constant sense, every day, every month, what this office does or does not do. Because if I understand correctly, my colleague, Mr Jerovšek, his amendment is trying to achieve precisely that the National Assembly will receive a report on this matter once a year. The argument that he's got a lot of reports is that you don't do anything or we don't do anything with them, but I don't think it's appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Because I was, I will say, challenged, otherwise in an inappropriate way, it would be right or necessary to call, although I did not originally intend to do so, but thank you for the opportunity. Look. In addition, if the report of the Anti-Money Laundering Office is prepared and sent to the Government, to write another address to send it to the National Assembly, I can imagine that this will then be allocated to the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee and possibly also to the Committee on Budgetary and Public Finance Control. That, of course, can't be a problem. As far as marriage is concerned, then, the way and systemic solutions to marriage are not disputed. But the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that some in this National Assembly are afraid to listen to their own reports, the reports of their own committees they have set up. Even though they go through the law and through the rules of procedure, of course with an argument of power, they vote on certain matters. Fear of reports is great and too great for some. Actually, he doesn't have as big eyes as he looks. It is right and good for citizens and citizens, for those who also pay the officials of the office, that, of course, certain results of work throughout the year or two and a half years are made known and found out in the right place. I'm sure it's a town in the National Assembly. Whether this is a debate in the national assembly or on the working committee, of course it is a chapter for itself. However, this is absolutely necessary and, of course, it would not have happened that the reports of the parliamentary investigative commissions would have been excluded from the agenda. It is from the Members of that group of Members who today are so fraught with fear and defence that the report on the prevention of money laundering could also be made available to Members. True, not all reports are read. It is true, however, that individuals and individuals simply read those reports for which they have special interest and commitment in specific areas. See, colleagues and colleagues, it is to be expected that in some negative reports issued, such as the Court of Auditors, when this is being dealt with, not only will the political responsibility of someone who was a minister and who is now well paid for another function be significantly better than he had when the Minister was also filing a complaint against someone. And it is precisely a review or insight into the Office's report on the prevention of money laundering that would probably bring another complaint by some committee of the National Assembly. Indeed, this has been the case that, unanimously, a committee of the National Assembly has decided to press charges. Then, of course, some corrupt prosecutors did not do so because they wrote in explanation that they would not do so in order not to come into the slippery area. Of course we don't need one of these. And it is right that this amendment has been voted that we will also have an insight into this branch of the money laundering segment, which is probably one of the major problems, which is happening not least with ownership and with the way in which individuals are enriched in a very short time. That's why I'm going to support the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. I would ask Mr Strolig to briefly answer some of the questions raised. Without repeating what you've already said, and those who were asking at the time weren't in. So, the key things in this relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you. I will take a statement from one of the Members as a reference.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	May I ask you a favor? You know, if you have paper in between, you don't hear anything. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Someone said we weren't an ideal country. True, we are not an ideal country for money laundering. But we are not the most critical country in money laundering. All evaluations in this area over the last seven years have shown this. Therefore, reactions in this area must not be such as to indicate that we are the most critical, that we have the most problems. One of the arguments I mentioned earlier that offices in no other country report on their work to Parliament, I am talking about my work. I'm not talking about money laundering, where more authorities are involved. This means that countries where, for example, "off-shore" are areas where the implementation of such legislation as this country has already had six years with these additions still improving legislation mean that it affects their GDP. So if Lichtenstein enforces such legislation, it can close nearly half of the country and break half their finances. I mean, countries that are much more problematic do not have this obligation to report offices to Parliament. Why not? I think it was also explained because it is a typical executive function. I'm talking about the work of the office. The Office shall report to the Government on various areas, from financial to staff, to everything, very technically, and shall also report on its findings in its work. One of the arguments why I think that, of course, it could be problematic to report to Parliament is the work of the Office. Because the Office points out in its reports not only to certain problems in the system, because it also proposes separate areas in this regard, it also points to certain things if they come to the public, it would of course also be a message to criminals who are to be misused by the subsystems of this country for money laundering. Indeed, if we write that a sector does not function as it should, that other supervisory authorities should be included in it, we inform governments that the government has adopted certain decisions, it is in charge of those authorities. Of course, if we were to inform the public about this, if we were very transparent, it means that until these new proposed measures are implemented, it means that criminals, those who also read these reports, could exploit these systems and abuse them. Therefore, there are several reasons why I think that reporting to Parliament on the work of the office - I stress the work of the office - would not be worthwhile. One of the things I think it's important to stress is that I'm talking about working in these seven years. The Office - because it deals not only with repressive work but also with preventive work - drew attention to the legislative issue of those bodies responsible for its change. I can say that we have an extremely good experience in this regard. One of the first to improve the crime of money laundering, the new criminal code that entered into force in 1999 took into account all the problems, including those that are now reflected in justice. You know for yourself that there was one exculpatory judgment based on the 1995 legislation. This legislation is no longer in force, it has already been amended. These problems, which we had foreseen in advance in the office, when we saw that this was already happening in the early stages of court decision-making, were taken into account, the government gave an initiative and changes occurred: both in criminal law and in the law on criminal proceedings. Slovenia is one of the first to ratify the Convention in this field. However, I think it is necessary to separate when we are talking about money laundering, which is not also an area of corruption. There are, of course, links, I think that the debate that has been discussed on the issue of corruption should be separated from this. This law does not regulate this area; in certain parts it refers to other areas of organised crime and corruption. So it is not the same thing, it should only be adjusted so much that not all irregularities in this country in the area of economic crime are also money laundering. I think that's a good thing to say. The next thing I would like to say is that the second week in July comes to Slovenia with a specific assessment mission, the second round of evaluation of the Council of Europe mission. It is these experts who spend one week here, who gets a month in advance of all Slovenian legislation, gets all the statistics, all the data they require. It's a second assessment mission, and I think the indication of how to show them things is that I've never had this habit, at least not on behalf of the office, to show things in the roses. Why? Since the foreign assessment mission - this is the Council of Europe, I stress - we expect them to give us smart advice. If we hide our weaknesses, we cannot expect wise counsel. We have always been open to this; we have always followed this trend of openness in the provision of information that allows for a high-quality assessment. This assessment is expected to be adopted once at the end of the year, a final report that will be similar to the GRECA report, to say that there is a similar monitoring, such as in the area of corruption of GRECA. This is a similar monitoring in the field of laundry. This report, like the previous one, is always addressed by the government. In this report, not only are beautiful things written how good we are, how good we do, but there are also those criticisms, both in the first report and in the second, which show where the possibilities for improving this system are. Part of the assessments - this is explained in the introduction to the first reading of the law - this law you have on the table is also the result of an assessment by the Council of Europe, assessments in certain areas that can be improved in this law. And that's what we're doing now. So it's not about the government or the office, if you want, not responding to the problems we're facing. One last point - I don't think anyone has said the final verdict yet. That's true, that's the problem, and that's an exciting problem. This has been pointed out by all government authorities - several times. The Government has therefore, I stress, also adopted certain measures within its competence. These measures are without prejudice to the law - for the time being, except for those to follow in the examination of the law on criminal proceedings. As you know, this is a comprehensive reform that we need in this area, which does not only affect the trial or the handling of money laundering cases, and which will require a thorough professional debate first before this law comes to Parliament, because the quick resolution of this area for just one purpose, this is money laundering, does not always provide quality solutions. The trial - we have two verdicts this moment, one is legal, absolution, the other is convictions. After the money laundering, we have five indictments, one trial started yesterday. We expect that within six months some positions of court will be taken, that is, those positions that will show whether, not only the office, including the police, the prosecution, will play their part in implementing these rules in a way that they were allowed to do at the time of adoption. If they were not good - and that was true, in 1995 the KZ had weaknesses that we are now addressing. The trial - the exoneration judgment is also due to these weaknesses in 1995, by the way, if I comment on it, not to the bad part of the office, not to the bad part of the police. One last argument. There are many bodies in this country, which are bodies in the composition that do not report to Parliament, and their area of work, I will say, is much more important in terms of some large numbers, macroeconomically more important. I'm talking about tax administration, I'm talking about foreign exchange inspection, I'm talking about criminal services, not least, and these services don't report directly to Parliament because they're in the executive system, most of them report to even the minister. In our area, we already have a higher standard because the office reports not only to the minister, but to the government. So, some kind of, if I say so, an additional argument, because this is a broader issue, has already been put into practice in our legislation. And I stress, I think that with the solution, as the amendment has now been written to report on its work to Parliament, it would not have been achieved with the purpose which I have understood with your initiative to discuss the issue of money laundering in Parliament as well. If such a national assembly thinks, then I think it would be right, of course, to discuss this issue with all the bodies in it, not only when the report on the work is being considered; I am talking about the police, I am talking about the prosecution, I am talking about the court. Why? Because all of these authorities, or if you want to, also the financial institutions that participate in the early stages of detecting suspicious transactions in the field of prevention. All of this together can provide some information on the problem of money laundering in Slovenia. Just a report on work, even if Parliament had it today, I must say that I do not see any additional possibility alone beyond what the government has already done in relation to this report in order to be able to do within the framework of Parliament's competence. But I think it's legitimate to deal with the whole issue, either through committees or through anything. And I think you can talk about it, but not in the way that the amendment is now written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have three more replicas. In line: Jerovšek, Kelemina, Dr. Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. In this response, I would like to draw attention to just one thing. In fact, you've been snuck up on the same thesis that has been extensively disseminated in this country. You say Members are a weak element in data protection. In fact, you mentioned that if we were to send the report to Parliament, then criminals would come up with important information. Actually, I'm pretty sure that thesis is not true. There are mechanisms and there are ways that even such strictly confidential information can be transmitted to Parliament or can be subsequently transmitted. I am sure that Parliament, the National Assembly, is not the place from which this information is also confidential and important information that must still be spread. By the way, look, I'll give you a case. There is never a Member in the National Security Council, and yet I can assure you that I am extremely well informed, I will say, through some channels, what has been happening - let us say - in the last National Security Council at that point, which also relates to the work of the Commission I am leading. And there's no messenger sitting there! And second thing I ask you, Mr. Stroligo. Do you think that if the report went to Parliament too, that it should be significantly different? Can you ensure that you pack exactly the same report as you send it to the government; would you send it to Parliament? Or would the fact that this law would say that once a year your office's report in Parliament is also being considered in Parliament, in itself, cause this report to look significantly different? And I think it's in this catch that the problem is that the government is also aware that in this case a little more people should be shown. In fact, our people are not as stupid as they have been thought to "eat" every single thing - everything about values. They have proved to be very sensitive to certain things and to be very sensitive to the crime of white collars. Even if you were aware of the real data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I agree with Mr Strolig that the report on the prevention of money laundering is a kind of public document.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Excuse me, Mr. Kelemina. Please, if you'll just take a few minutes to rest. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. At least in the public reports it is assessed on a flat-rate basis as a positive element, where it is found that there are no serious abnormalities and so on. I also understand that some more positive report is appropriate somehow than some signal for some of our external partners, that it is not too negative; I also understand that this may be some psychological effect for internal use, but not [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] certain elements to be more informed and also looking for those holes, but there is also a double sword on the other side, which is again possible to give a signal if the reports are positive, someone who deals with these things when he says: yes because the report is positive, because they do not get us, but they will not get us, so let us just work the old way or find ourselves. [[...]] Thus, it is the swords of the court, the things of the court, or even the public, if they were familiar with these documents, that they might condemn certain things and also require that certain matters be properly settled. However, as far as sending this document to the National Assembly is concerned, I think that, given your concern about confidential documents and so on, we know that such documents can be sent as official confidential or strictly confidential or in any form already and that they can be treated on a working body or anywhere as confidential material. That's what I think you understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Executive authorities around the world, including those who are really committed to preventing this money laundering, are in some sense condemned today to walk one step for events, because obviously we are dealing with some system around the world that has the best technology available and - very possibly - even the most corrupt lawyers in such and other countries. I myself understand the Government representative's argument that reporting on work in its entirety could present problems there. But I would really like to ask; here's another reading, we still have the opportunity to get to the third reading of a more intelligent compromise as far as this is concerned. Because I would ask you, gentlemen, if anyone else is listening to me or if we're going to eat. Are we just going to lunch, sir or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	I can't help but remind myself that he's decent to listen to his colleagues. But it is the fact that some people are just discussing it, no matter what.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President, for your attention. I think by the third reading we could find some compromise right in this - which: what is the real problem? The problem is that the National Assembly, like this proposal for a law I understand, is in some sense condemned to receive only these statistical data or the specific proposals made by the executive authority on the basis of all this work and its own analyses to the National Assembly for the Search for Systemic Solutions. The fact is that in this area - I am personally aware of the work of this OECD Commission of countries that meet at least four times a year and debate these things; how to move faster towards these new possibilities, people who are dealing with money laundering, how they are constantly making progress. I think we will always need, even in our legislation, serious work to enable and monitor the work of the executive branch in this area. So we need to find some way between what we are offered; and this is the statistical information that Dr. Bernick himself has marked and read - what does that tell you, we don't know what's really going on there. We know the Bureau does a lot of things, but the fact is nothing happens. On the basis of these reports, the National Assembly cannot truly work and decide independently. So, one thing is to report on the work that may have such problems, I admit that such problems can arise, which clearly weigh down on the representative of the government today at this meeting; on the other hand, the fact that this national assembly, like all the national assemblies around the world, who want to monitor this, must also act. He also asked the representatives of the great coalition to listen. I think that's a real problem. We can find some smart solution. I hope that common sense prevails. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Can we conclude the debate on this amendment? Mr. Strolig's explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Very briefly. I think those of you who understand me by not trusting the National Assembly to keep secrets, you misunderstood me. I reiterated that this work, the report on work, should be transparent in terms of more than statistics to the public, not to the national assembly. Because, of course, in this case, information could also be provided to those who do not want to tell them where the faults of this system are. So I'm sorry if you misunderstood me at this point. Another time. I don't think the reports, at least until now, have been pretty. Once again, I stress: not on the outside, not on the government. There is no reason, at least I don't see him hiding his problems in a day-to-day job, etc., to the government, first about the minister and then hiding problems to the government. Why? Because then no one will save them if we don't present them. So I can say that most of the reports have really reflected the problem of that year and have also been critical enough to trigger certain debates and initiatives, as I said before, both at the legislative and system level and at the level of what is the responsibility of the government. As far as compromise is concerned, maybe that's it. I don't think the work report and the way that this amendment is written now solves the problem, as you explained. I think it is possible beyond this law, without correcting this law, that the National Assembly, through its committees, has sufficient mechanisms to require the Government to report on the problem, so that all the authorities, I stress, who are dealing with this issue, also get to know their findings at some point in time, because it is possible to monitor this, even if it is necessary to make it aware of - say - the assessment, as I said before, of the independent institutions: the current assessments and the current and future assessments. This could then be enough material for a debate in the National Assembly on the very issue of, as I say, more than just the work of the Office. I don't think this law has to be amended, corrected to achieve this goal as you wanted it to be. I think that this can be given by a decision or outside this meeting or through a committee to this issue and this order to the government to provide you with some comprehensive information and a comprehensive report on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Can we close this debate on this amendment? I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We will therefore vote on the amendment to Article 25, which Mr Jerovšek put into the procedure on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Can we get to the vote? Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 19 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 34 of them. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It's all about the 25th. Mr. Jakič, in case you haven't noticed, the meeting is still taking place. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 37 voted in favour, 12 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The time is 12.58 and, given the general mood, I suggest we take a break. We'll pick it up at 2.30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members! I ask you to take your seats, because we will determine the conclusion of the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 43 registered, but there are more of us in the hall. That's why we're gonna do it again. Please press the "quorum" button. The assembly is adjourned and we can proceed with the work. Additional justification for the continuation of the 7th session: Janez Podobnik from 4.00 p.m. onwards, Stanislav Brenčič from 4.00 p.m. on, Franc Kangler all day, Igor Štemberger for the start of the afternoon part of the session, Peter Levič for the start of the afternoon part of the session, Dr. Miha Brejc for the afternoon part of the session, Janko Weber for the afternoon part of the session, Sašo Peče for the afternoon part of the session and Ivan Kebric from 16.00 p.m. We continue with the point - the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering, the second consideration. We ended up on page 4. We're going to chapter four. I ask Members and Members that you take into your hands a review of the amendments to the bill of 23.5. We're looking at chapter four. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. No offense, I'm in a bad voice again. With regard to the title to this chapter and later to Article 28, I would ask the government representative to explain the concerns they have with regard to these solutions from the company of the tax advisers of Slovenia. They point out that it is also for tax advisers, in their view, a profession in which a mutual relationship of trust needs to be established, and that it would be the same as it has been for lawyers and notaries so far, even for them, prudently and rightly, not to be included in the circle of persons who are obliged under the official obligation to report the items they identify and are linked to money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you. Please, a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are familiar with the initiative on the tax advisor. Maybe some history. With the tax advisers, we sat down in the drafting of the law last November and discussed the reasons for and against. I must say that the arguments cited by them, why they should be given the same treatment as the notaries and lawyers that we have excluded from the law in the second reading for the reasons already explained today, do not stand the test. Indeed, the role of tax advisers is not comparable to that of notaries and lawyers. The argument that they are bound by business secrecy and that they have a special relationship with a party is that it binds all the organisations listed in Article 2 of the Act and has been implementing this law for seven years, starting with banks, savings banks, etc., with all other activities which are also bound by business secrecy. What's he doing different? First time in the constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia specifically talks about notariat and specifically speaks about lawyers and gives different guarantees, gold lawyers, in relation to the client, as it gives them to tax advisers who are not regulated at all. Another time. The Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia lays down exceptions requiring default in respect of a certain confidentiality relationship with a party, setting this superstandard only in relation to three categories, namely the doctor, the priest and the lawyer. But don't talk about categories other than banks, not tax advisors or anything else. In other words. In the criminal code, everyone, including notaries, is now obliged to report crimes to the police, otherwise it is not a matter of introducing something essential new for this category of debtors. The next argument why they should be included in the law is that it is a category that is not regulated or a profession that is not regulated by the law of the mother. So it is unsupervised, even though it does exist, despite carrying out certain tasks that are also important for the implementation of the law on money laundering prevention. This was also the reason why at least certain controls carried out by the Office at this time should this Parliament adopt a law that will fully address the issue of tax advisers, of course, the primary supervisory authority will also have certain tasks after the prevention of money laundering. In the transitional provisions, we have also decided in this law that this will be suitably regulated by the future regulation if it adopts it. As I said: if we look at a comparative legal review, despite the fact that the new directive has not yet been adopted and, in particular, because of lawyers, this dispute has been brought forward between the various European Union bodies, there is no tax advisors to this dispute. Tax advisors will be included in the European Union directive, not a dilemma, not all positions, not just the European Parliament and not just the Commission and the European Council, are united at this point. Which means if we look at what other countries are doing. In a large number of countries, tax advisers are already included as debtors. So this is not about something that we would be doing in Slovenia in a new way. I can only read a few of them in alphabetical order: Vandorij, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Ireland, Great Britain, Latvia, Lithuania - these are, for example, countries that already have taxpayers. Another last reason is that the regulation, as envisaged by the draft law in the first reading, was different with regard to lawyers and notaries than with respect to tax advisers now. In fact, lawyers and notaries can also perform certain transactions for customers, while tax advisers do not. Therefore, we do not commit tax advisers to implementing the law in the context of the implementation of transactions for customers, but in the context of customer advice, in that they have access to certain documentation, as well as auditors, as well as accounting services, and therefore their regime and arrangements in this law with all the amendments - article 28 - as you said - are uniform with these structures. Therefore, as I say, the applicant retained tax advisers in the draft law with these arguments. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We are voting on the completion of the title. Please. We're voting for a change of title. We're voting. Present 47, 40 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] The change of address was adopted or the addition of the address. We still vote on the title as a whole. Please. It seems that we have not all voted, please vote again. Attention, please. Another time. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words. Look, in a way, those who don't vote, we're talking to ourselves. You know well that we will have to adopt this legislation. And now, of course, the question is whether we're going to be doing this at some normal time or if we're going to get caught up in it. Please take note of this. We'll resume in 10 minutes. 14.58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we have voted on the title of the law as a whole. Please. 46 Members and Members present, for 34, against no one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] The title of the chapter has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 27. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please. I'm Dr. Bernick's emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. With regard to this article, I would like to ask what is the criterion for raising the threshold. We've had this before, but it looks like we didn't ask about this. Because I'm surprised we're going up, instead of going down. In some other countries, the threshold is much lower, and if I understand it, it is about $3 million, or about $40,000, or $25,000. Let me just say that this threshold seems too high for our situation. It is understandable that banks will have more problems, but this is the nature of these transactions; for if I compare our two thresholds of 3 and 5,000, 3 and 5 million, I can say that this is much less than in the United States of America, where the threshold is $10,000. And I can see from this data that you gave in the Bureau's statistical report that the number of transactions is dropping. For example, in 1995 there were 824 transactions, today or in 2000 there were 5 of them, and some of them seem to still be open from the previous years. And I don't understand why that is or why the threshold goes up instead of going down. If we want to help banks, I think we should adopt sub-laws that would enter into force at the same time as this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you. Please. He's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	The reason for this amount is solely the reason for the unification of all the rules already in the field of identification throughout the European Union and the countries wishing to get there. This is Article 3 of the Directive, or the guidelines of the European Union, which speaks in the second paragraph of the amount of 15,000 ECUs. Even now we're a little bit lower, even with this increase we're a little lower than the current ECU course, because three million is a little bit smaller, I'll say, less than that - so even higher the threshold should be. It is true that some countries, such as the United States and Australia, also have a criterion of $10,000 at the border - this is what this article is talking about. But as I say, I think we're in another environment and we have to adapt. Another time. Also from the number of cash transactions at that limit of 5 million tolars, although this article does not apply to this, it does not go down. Also from the numbers, in 1999 we received - say - 35,335 cash transactions - so many cash transactions notifications; last year we received 37,300. So, a little over two thousand more, even though we raised the amount in the meantime. That's a big burden. Let me say that when we adopt them, we find them in particular, outside of suspicious transactions - we are one of the few countries that does so, so we are already dealing with this entire system of superstandards, for more obligations than the other. I think that lowering the amount and thereby increasing the administrative work and bureaucratic work in organisations that are committed, and then in the office would not excuse - to say - the "cost benefit" of the entire system. Both formal and actual reasons are for proposing such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We vote on the amendment to Article 27. Please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 42, against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present for 41, against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] The article was adopted. Moving to the next page, page 5, to the title of second point IV. Chapters. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting. There are 43 present, so we're not concluding. We'll vote next time. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the title in full, please. 53 Members present and Members present. For 46, against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Title 2 of Chapter 4 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 28. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. Let's vote on the amendment. 54 Members and Members are present. It's 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 28 as a whole. Please. 51 Members and Members are present. For 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 30. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find that the article has been completely amended. We're moving on to Article 31. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Please. Vote, second time. 49 Members and Members are present. For 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I assure you that Article 31 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 32. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting. Please. About the amendment, of course. Vote, second time. There are 47 Members and Members present. For 43, against no one. The vote was 43.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Please. Vote, second time. Please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 32 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 33. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting, second time, please. There's 46 present for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on Article 33 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 33 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 34. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. Vote, second time. We'll resume the session in ten minutes at 3.24 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 34. 53 Members and Members present, 44 for, one for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. 51 Members and Members present, for 45, one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 38. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. 47 Members and Members present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 38 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Please. The 48 Members and Members present, for 45, one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 38 has been adopted. We are moving on to the new Article 38a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, 43 for, one for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus a new article. We're moving to the title of the new V.A. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr President of the Office. Article 30 sets out institutions that will prepare criteria. However, in this Article 38.b, the Minister shall be responsible for certain of the same things, if I understand correctly. I want to know why this duality is. Another time. This too: The Minister must prepare the sub-laws in the 1990s, and this is not provided for in Article 30, and no deadline is set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer. He's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	As far as the indicators are concerned, as far as the criteria are concerned, that's how the system works. They are prepared by the debtors, the organisations involved by the supervisory authorities, the primary supervisors, plus the office. In the event of non-conformity of sector-specific indicators, the Minister of Finance is also empowered to designate certain indicators as mandatory. One reason is unity, but another reason is that the "financial action tax force", which is the organisation of the G-7 last year, published for the first time a blacklist of countries with which the Member States, the whole European Union and some other countries, are to take action against this letter with certain sanctions, in order to give the Minister the power to define something as suspicious, we have ensured the possibility that Slovenia will also participate in these sanctions to those countries that do not implement money laundering measures. Therefore, this mandate also provides for "may issue", which means that it is not mandatory, and that is why there is no time limit in which it should issue it, which is the case with other sub-legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. Please! There are 48 Members and Members present, 42 for, against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] We voted on the new title of the new V.A. We're moving on to a new 38.b. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. Vote, second time. Please! There are 48 Members and Members, 43, against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. Since the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 47, please move on to Article 47, page 10. Since the debate is already closed, we are voting. We vote secondly on the amendment to Article 47. Your Honor, it didn't work. We'll resume in ten minutes at 3:43 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	I ask the Members and Members to take their seats! Once again, I ask Members and Members to take their seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 47. Please. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 47 has been adopted. Let's go back to Article 39. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. There are 46 Members and Members present. For 40, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 39 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. There are 47 Members and Members present. For 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 39 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 40. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. Please, let's take it easy. One more moment, please. I'm taking five minutes off. We'll pick it up at 15.52.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Your Honor! Given the interruption, we need to determine the quorum. Please press the "quorum" button politely. We're picking up the presence! While the Rules of Procedure do not foresee such situations, we are indisputably more than we are on screen, 45, so I do not know if such conduct has any purpose. [[...]] Each has its own means to achieve its objectives, legal. And that actually only shows the unreality. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for the second time we shall determine the presence. We're picking up the presence! There are 53 Members and Members present. I take it that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 40th Article, of which the Government is proposing. Let's vote. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 41 and on the amendment of which the Government is proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 45 and on the amendment to this article, of which the Government is proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We still vote on Article 47 as a whole. We're voting. There are 45 present, which is not enough. Respected and respected! The Rules of Procedure give us another option; - one option is to vote by means of technical voting devices, but we can also use this if you agree to raise our hands if you find this more pleasant and easier to keep your attention here. There's 54 of us in the hall! For each play, there is also a solution, and in this case, this is an option offered by the Rules of Procedure, this is a manual vote. Procedural proposal, Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Those who follow us from the outside today can find out the following that we have been talking nonsense for an hour or two today, and the following is roadblocks with indiscretion. If that apparatus works well, 64 cards are currently in place and we are inconclusive in each vote. This means that some people continue to screw around when this house is costing, I guess, a few million a day. Perhaps not so problematic those who do not apply, but we have a permanent few colleagues who do not come to Parliament at all and may be taking this function for fun or complementary activity; what they are doing could be speculated. Since I've made a procedural call, I suggest two things. The first is to suspend the meeting for a certain time, I don't know, 10, 15 or 20 minutes to meet the leaders of the groups of Members and find out why this is happening and let us know. And then, of course, next thing you know what to do. I am not ready to push buttons here myself when others in different variants are screwing around. At the same time, I propose a second conclusion that, given the possibilities of computer technology, Kviaz provides information on the presence in Parliament, in the way that we have already had the opportunity to do so in an older technique. Indeed, at that time we have already found that one presence has 5-10%; this means that they are present one day or less a month. After all this, there is something to be done, because this is the first time; shame for Parliament - I cannot boast that I will be among the best when we find out how many are present - and the second time; of course, productivity, the seriousness of this house must be on a different level than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal to suspend the session in 15 minutes, to meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups and agree as far as you deem necessary. I have a procedural proposal to put to the vote. I, however, bet on the seriousness of the well-respected congregation. I think we could continue and, if it comes to this again, take advantage of this option. Mr. Juban, would you agree? Do you want me to put it to the vote immediately so that the leaders of the parliamentary groups can domain themselves? Okay. We will vote on the procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 34 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the procedural proposal for the adjournment of the meeting is for 15 minutes to meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 117 and agree on the problem that is coming to us. Mr Geza also made a second procedural proposal that Kviaz review the presence of individual Members and make proposals on how to act against Members who are not present in the National Assembly as their mission commands them. They are voting on this second procedural proposal. There are 51 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] Therefore, the proposal that Kviaz review the presence and study the presence of Members in the National Assembly and report to us about it has been adopted. Your Honor! I am adjourning the meeting for 15 minutes in accordance with the decision we have taken. We're moving on to work at 4:20. Thank you very much. Leaders of the parliamentary groups, please gather in room 117.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Dear colleagues, allow me to brief you on the agreement of the leaders of the Group. In fact, it was undeniably found that there was no intention of blocking the work of the National Assembly from any parliamentary group within these two days, but of course it is necessary to be very present at all times in this new way and, if only a few Members, if 53 of us are present, to forget to press the button, it is, of course, impossible to vote at the moment. We have committed ourselves to trying to make sure that we really have due attention - with what people have actually sent us to this national assembly - to do our duty and seriously to vote on the laws that are before us. By the second vote on Article 47, we will check whether we have enough. We're voting again. So, for the second time, we are voting on Article 47 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the last amendment and the last article, which is said to be the new 47.b., the amendment's proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment for the new article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law for the third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy also proposed to the National Assembly that, following the second reading of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering, the following conclusion be adopted: "The third consideration of the bill shall be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the Government's representative very much for his cooperation, including the secretariat's representatives, thank you very much. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for a resolution on the strategy of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. We're going to wait for a moment because we're being joined by a government representative. I welcome the government's representatives very much between us. The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? On behalf of the Government, the motion for a resolution will be presented by Dr Tomaž Time, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Dr. Time, please, you can go to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me first to apologize to Dr. Anton Grisold, Minister of Defence, who is on a business trip and, of course, is absent. It is known that in Slovenia we have been working for a long time to adopt basic development, constitutional and doctrinal documents in the field of national security and in particular the defence system. So far, we have adopted a resolution on the basis of the 1993 national security design, the 1995 military doctrine and the defence strategy of the previous year. It would normally be normal to adopt all the necessary documents first and then regulate the normative arrangements for this area on this basis. To this end, a large-scale study of the documents they have in the field of national security and particularly of defence in 22 countries was also carried out in 1999. On this basis, at the end of 1999, the Government also established a series of documents and a hierarchy between them. The most important cover document is a resolution on a national security strategy to be adopted by the national assembly or to be adopted by the national assembly. As a development document, a general and long-term programme for the equipment and development of the Slovenian army and a national programme for the protection against natural and other disasters would be adopted. The general long-term programme was already adopted by the National Assembly in April last year. However, the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters is included in this, saying 7th meeting of the National Assembly. The government, as it was said, adopted a defence strategy last year. In addition, proposals are being prepared to complement the military defence doctrine, civil defence doctrines, protection doctrines, rescue and assistance. This procedure has not yet been initiated. We have also included the adoption of development and doctrinal documents for the past two years in the annual national programmes for the implementation of the NATO Action Plan. I'm sorry with the low score. However, we have also included the adoption of the resolution on the national security strategy in the 2001 and 2002 national programme. The motion for a resolution on the national security strategy was submitted to the National Assembly last August. Again, I must say that we have examined its contents in full and made some improvements and have perfected the text. In particular, we have taken into account the changes in our country's security environment, the current emphasis on foreign policy, economic policy. We have taken into account the assessments of the implementation of the annual plans for inclusion in NATO, the delay so far in the implementation of certain development documents, and at least indirectly, we have taken into account the American study of our defence system. The most important changes in the text therefore concern the definition of interests, then the security environment and individual policies. The basic elements of the system preserve three systems or three pillars, as we have already developed on the basis of a resolution on the origins of the national security concept. However, their integration through a crisis management system that appears as a new concept, a new term and, of course, a new form of action under that resolution is highlighted. The document is comprehensive and comparable to similar documents in other countries. We have also translated this in cooperation with foreign recognised experts who have visited us in recent months. We believe that the document must be adopted as soon as possible, including in order to maintain credibility against NATO in terms of the implementation of the action plan for its membership. On this basis, we will also carry out a revision by the end of the year of the general long-term programme for the development of Slovenian military equipment, a document covering and the structure of the Slovenian army by the target year 2010, as well as possible additions to the defence strategy. We expect a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters to be adopted this year. But the essence of all our efforts is to adopt real, concrete and realistic documents. By adopting a resolution on the national security strategy, the 1993 resolution will also be lifted. This resolution, as you know, has already in practice been much exceeded and its structure today is significantly different. It regulated, namely, the previous resolution, the origins of the design, not the comprehensive area of national security. The motion for the present resolution therefore places less emphasis or generalisation on certain areas in order to balance the entire document. Thus, the entire area of intelligence and security activities is no longer covered, as police law, Owl law and certain other regulations have been passed in the past period. We also took into account that the National Assembly adopted a special declaration on foreign policy at the end of 1999. However, an economic policy strategy and some other documents are also being prepared. Finally, if I may say that we have also examined the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs. Their proposal to use constitutional terminology on the generally established principles of international law and international treaties is accepted and issued before publication. We also accept editorial corrections concerning the three branches of government, the deletion of the term "resor" and the use of the term "service" in intelligence and security activities. However, some of the comments already covered by the proposal have been supplemented by the text of the resolution proposed by the home working body. The Government does not oppose the proposal to supplement the text of the resolution, which was drawn up on the basis of a preliminary consideration of the motion for a resolution in the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and around the world, and in the Committee on the Control of the Work of Security and Intelligence Services in the Defence Committee. Representatives of the government participated in the drafting of these supplements and we estimate that they will improve the text of the whole document. Mr President, the President! I propose that the assembly consider and adopt a resolution on the strategy of the national security Republic of Slovenia, together with the additions already mentioned. The adoption of this document is, at least for us and for all of us involved, I think of all the resources, very important, including for the early initiation of the process of examining the amendments and supplementing the defence law, certain other regulations and, of course, the documents which I have mentioned several times in this introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The material was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honor! This is a fundamental document in the field of national security. At its 4th meeting, the Defence Committee considered a resolution on the national security strategy, also taking note of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters on the motion for a resolution, the opinion of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and throughout the world, and the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of the work of the security and intelligence services on the proposal. On behalf of the motion for a resolution, the motion for a resolution was presented by Dr Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, and a chapter of the resolution was presented in more detail in the debate by Mr Miran Bogataj. In his presentation, the Minister stressed that the current motion for a resolution after improvements and refinements of texts takes into account changes in the country's security environment, takes into account the implementation of the annual plans for the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO liaison, including all the critical comments made by the NATO Liaison Expert Group on its visit to the Republic of Slovenia. Indirectly, a study of defence reform in the Republic of Slovenia, known as Garrett's study, was also taken into account in the drafting of the motion for a resolution. In the updated text of the resolution, the current emphasis in foreign and economic policy has also been added, according to the Minister. Following his presentation, the Minister of Defence also identified himself to the opinions delivered by the Secretariat of the National Security Strategy of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs and the interested working bodies of the National Assembly, namely, the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide and the Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Services. In doing so, it should be noted that the Minister agreed with the comments made by the Secretariat, while expressing some concerns about the follow-up and supplementary proposals of the Commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. Following the discussion, it was found that consideration of the motion for a resolution could continue in a one-phase manner. The Committee on Defence further identified itself to the opinions or follow-up and complementary proposals submitted by the Commission on Relations with Slovenians in the Inter- and World Trade Organization and the Committee on the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Services as interested working bodies. Given that we have already received a table review of these proposals, I would not read them. I would just like to say that the proposal for a Chapter "Introduction" in the transcription has led to a certain discrepancy with what has been found in the magnetogram and what has been discussed, which we then resolved with the correspondence session, so that the purified text matches the debate on the Committee. [[You also have this in the review given.]] And of course, most importantly, the Defence Committee finally adopted a decision: "The Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Committee's follow-up and complementary proposals, supported by the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Dorian Marsič, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The motion for a resolution on a national security strategy, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, assesses the situation and addresses issues in specific areas of social life and takes a position on policy in these areas. In particular, foreign policies, defence policies, policies to ensure internal security, economic policy, policies to protect against natural and other disasters, and policies to protect and preserve the environment and space. The resolution thus deals with all the segments that are divided into so-called "hard security", "hard security" and "soft security" or so-called "soft security". The first is the ability of the State to defend itself against threats or, in the worst case, to defend territorial integrity, human life and fundamental social values. This security segment is more or less an area of the armed forces and the defence system. The second segment, called soft security, deals with economic, political and social stability and balanced environmental policy. It therefore rests on healthy economy, the judiciary, the market system, regulated relations with minorities, good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries and so on. The assessment of the state of acceptance of the basic, developmental and doctrinal documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of national security is well known and has been presented in advance. The current resolution on the basis of the 1993 national security design has now been exceeded. The government adopted the latest military good in 1995, the defence strategy last year and the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters is already in the parliamentary process. In fact, all of the above-mentioned strategic documents - and others - need to be adopted here - need a preliminary adoption of the basic umbrella document, which is the present resolution. Slovenia is preparing to join the European Union, which means, among other things, that it will adopt the starting point for building a common European foreign and security policy and a common defence policy. On the process of joining NATO, the national security strategy is not only one of the tasks that Slovenia has set out in the membership action plan, but also a condition for the implementation of the necessary and urgent reorganisation of security forces, especially defence forces, to which it is necessary to reach the most unanimous decision-making on the subject. Liberal Democrats and Democrats also support the strengthening of the situation of the Republic of Slovenia as part of the organization of the NOVSE United Nations [[?]] as well as other political, economic and military initiatives, as our integration processes do not endanger anyone, but they do introduce the elements of stability and peace in the region of Central, South-Eastern Europe, while at the same time setting an example for other countries in the area. In some countries, the national security strategy is the operational documents adopted by governments, where they have a presidential system, by the Heads of State. Therefore, it is likely that more should be said about the hierarchy of strategic and doctrinal documents, as it was already at the Committees' meetings that we were beginning to consider a resolution which is the basis for further more operational strategies of national security and other doctrinal documents to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, also the necessary laws. Among other important segments of the resolution, we also consider that the part of the resolution that speaks about the security culture of citizens is an important national security foundation. Trust in the defence and security system, as well as in confidence in the institution of the country, also declines support for the population in the process of entering both the European Union and NATO. The country should do more here, especially through another, also an important, educational basis for the national security system. When we read the resolution, we had ideas whether it would be necessary to assess the situation in this document in more detail in the national security system, to describe the security environment on which national security strategies are also created, to write more specifically the conditions of use of our units in both "peacekeeping" and so-called "Petersberian operations" as well as for combat purposes outside our country's borders, and whether it is necessary to record more specifically that our army's organisation will go towards professionalisation and allowing a voluntary reserve when the recruitment system is abolished. We were also asked whether more could be written about our own defence technological development and the more active role of our country in arms control, as Slovenia is party to the basic international agreements and conventions in this area. Finally, whether there is a place of responsibility and time to monitor the implementation of the resolution is more effective, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has probably left the processing of these issues to others, in the hierarchy of the less specialized areas of the documents. We have also had some concerns in the Group on the appropriateness of the organisation's organisation in the National Assembly, which would allow for the control of the resolution. At present, the home working body is the Defence Committee on this resolution, and the documents have also been addressed by interested working bodies. It certainly seems to us that the Defence Committee, with its work area, is too narrow to be able to do this difficult work and it is likely to consider in the future either extending the work area of this Committee or establishing a working body covering the national security system. In our parliamentary group, we believe that this document should be a living document subject to frequent verification and also to changes based on changes in the security environment of the Republic of Slovenia. For the reasons set out above, the adoption of this resolution in the National Assembly is necessary and necessary and therefore we support Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! Dear fellow Members and Members! The resolution, as such, is written, could say, generally loosely and in essence corresponds to what is also the purpose of this resolution, that is to obtain some kind of document in this area. Of course, we can also draw attention to some of the shortcomings in this document. This is also what we in New Slovenia have done when we have, with some additional conclusions or propose additional conclusions, to correct some of the solutions in this resolution, if you will, of course. The resolution covers various areas that all together represent the national security of the Slovenian State, and I hope to say that at the moment, more than external factors in our national security are actually threatening certain internal negative impacts. Let me name a few. In Slovenia there is an increase in crime. In Slovenia, xenophobia appears, which was not there a few years ago. We're witnessing an increase in drug use. We are witnessing an increased number of crimes. In all of this, we can see and point to the inaction of the judiciary or our judiciary is slow, acting often unsuspectingly. As a result, the number of pending applications is increasing and so are the waiting periods in the courts. In our country, some laws are not implemented, just to mention two. The Denationalisation Act - this is also pointed out by the State Department - a criminal privatisation that has not yet been completed today. Many have obtained certificates that do not know what to do, while on the other hand, more and more people have acquired our common assets once. These people are becoming extremely rich, and on the other hand, an increasing number of poor people remain. We are witnessing an extraordinary social disintegration in this country. I would like to draw attention to a poor demographic policy that forces our villages to empty. We are witnesses to poor regional development plans. Thus, on the one hand, we have extremely richly developed regions such as Ljubljana and the promised regions, while on the other hand, on the other hand, our rural areas remain underdeveloped and do not reach even 50% of the average of development in the European Union. We are witnessing that workers' rights are being reduced from day to day, that trade unions are also landing on this reduction of workers' rights. We are witnessing people earning less and less in our country. If I say some numbers: in our region where they do work for the fights 60,000 dollars a month's salary. He could also mention that there are not some institutionalised violations in our country, but that they are, he could even claim to be violations of the Constitution. I could draw attention to the process of establishing congregations when the National Assembly denied some the right and gave it to others in the same breath and under the same law. We are witnesses to an unprofessional public administration, which often acts arrogantly to the users of this administration. We are witnesses to the non-pluriality of the media, which was also helped by this national assembly when it did not listen to arguments that Slovenia needs a right conservative medium. We are witnessing an increasing intolerance and lack of dialogue in our society. This may not seem so alarming to you, but I think that everything I've counted holds, and that all of this in many ways can contribute to reducing national security in our country. The fundamental objective of the national security strategy should be to preserve the identity and national awareness of Slovenia. I am aware that there is no magic wand for this to happen overnight, but we must all work together, especially in Parliament, to do so. I also know that this cannot be achieved not only by one of the ministries, the defence ministry which has drawn up this document, but by the fact that it is a project of the entire government of the entire Parliament, if you will, of all citizens and citizens of this country. We will support this document in our parliamentary group. We will be very pleased, however, if the coalition supports our additional conclusions, with which we want to improve this document slightly, and particularly in one part to introduce that one of the fundamental principles of national security is a balanced and good demographic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan wishes to present the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So here I would not like to present what is written here, but perhaps what is not written or what we imagine should be emphasized in the parliamentary group. First of all, I would like to point out that we support the resolution on the strategy in the Group of Members, and we will vote for it because we believe it is necessary and necessary. With regard to Chapter 4/2, this is the chapter of the Defence Policy, but I would like to say how we imagine this text. What we do not think has been written, however, we wanted to complement with a complementary proposal, which is also on your benches. Indeed, this chapter is being addressed - the title is Defence Policy, which means that it guides and guarantees the defence capabilities of the country and the development of the defence system. This includes planning the scope and structure of the Slovenian army and, of course, which is particularly important, its development. We must not forget to include our efforts to join NATO, which means that we need to adapt the structure, composition, numbering, scale to the requirements of the NATO Member States. We need to say that we are also in the process of doing this through a study carried out by the Special Commission, received the short name of Garrett's Commission, or then the study published by Garrett's study, which in the first stage carried out an analysis of the current situation in Slovenia in this area, and then gives some guidance and guidance. Of course, it does not stipulate that this is an obligation, but these are, above all, guidelines that our country takes into account or does not. And as we have heard in the presentation of this resolution, the suggestions and proposals made by this Commission under General Garrett have also been taken into account. Here we believe, above all, that in the recruitment and referral system, especially in the recruitment system, we have entered into some kind of tribulation. This system is somehow becoming a bar of development. The fact is that this system was basically too liberal, and I'm not talking about Liberal Democracy here, but the system as such was probably somehow still appropriate, but it turned out to be inadequate in the long term. Today, in particular, we have a problem in terms of civil service liberalisation. These problems are already so much that we can barely put together, at least this year is likely to happen, only 50% of the recruits from that number of male generations. This means such an anomaly, such a derogation, that the whole system is somehow in the air and that the recruitment system can no longer function as it was intended. Of course, the structure and scope of our army are no longer as it should be. That is why we have also prepared a proposal for the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in our party a year ago, which at that time has reaped a great deal of disapproval and criticism. Of course only political, not professional. Today others have already somehow taken up their program or in the guidelines professionalization, perhaps by their own view, which is also right. We believe that, and we are also being counseled in some way, by representatives of other NATO Member States, that professionalisation is necessary. This means, after all, a reduction in the number, the actual volume of the armed forces. And somehow we get to more real numbers. This is said to be what we actually have in practice, not what we have on paper. This comes from other countries that are already members of NATO, saying that they have become the first round, and, of course, those who still want to join. We believe that for Slovenia the right system would be a professional army combined with a voluntary reserve. How it works, we've actually shown it. Of course, we don't think this should happen overnight. This is just a long-term orientation, and this resolution is exactly the right document that we could put it into. The fact is, a lot of this is written down. Although we wanted to write what we believe is missing in one sentence very briefly, with a complementary proposal. Of course, our view of the future composition and structure of the Slovenian army, which will also be adapted to the demands of NATO, is of course the definition of all political parties in Parliament, except one. If this is our definition, our political definition, then we must also do something in practice, not only do we engage in a declarative approach, but in practice this is somehow passed. Now is the time when we can no longer escape, when we can no longer just talk and represent only our directions. But when it does, when they ask us, where is what you promised three years ago or four years ago, then we can't show anything. Now is the time for action and I am pleased to hear also from the biggest party represented in Parliament that they are also thinking about professionalisation; of course, under certain conditions, that this is, of course, our common vision, within the given possibilities that Slovenia can have according to our economic abilities. Finally, even NATO representatives and NATO Member States are aware of this and have never imposed their terms on us, they said only, you decide what you think is right for you, and then you stick to it. It's a word to hold. This is also how we think in our party, so we will support this resolution, with a supplement that we have also defined, and, of course, we are also asking for its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Honourable Members and Members of the Government. On the threshold of celebrating the 10th anniversary of Slovenia's independence, we accept one of the important acts - this is a resolution on the national security strategy. It is in this that we may be even more aware of how important this national security is to our country and to our citizens. We fully support the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, in the proposed content, including the proposed amendments tabled by the Government, the Defence Committee and individual parliamentary groups. With these additions, the resolution will be more complete, suitable as a basic act of the State for further action and behaviour in this area. The resolution covers, in our opinion, all the important areas covered by such an act: from the interests of the State in this area to their own national security, from a thorough assessment of the international situation, to the environment in which we are located, particularly in terms of safety and threats or threats, and from the perspective of our geostrategic situation. The policy of national security is developed or covers, in particular, our foreign policy; the conduct of Slovenia in international space; defence policy; the policy of protection against natural and other disasters that increasingly affect us, and our willingness or future readiness to defend ourselves against it, them, more effectively; the policy of protecting and preserving the environment as an increasingly important issue, where and how we will live in future us other craftsmen; the defence system and other elements. Following the adoption of this resolution, all those responsible, including us in the National Assembly, will have to follow up on its implementation in all the areas contained and covered by this resolution. Our Group of Members will vote in favour of the adoption of the resolution and of the additions proposed and resulting in an improvement of its content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have not received written debates from individual Members and Members, so the possible debate between Members and Members is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? For no, I conclude the Lord Jerovšek. Here you are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would touch only one segment in this resolution on national security. I am surprised that in the section on the geostrategic situation of the Republic of Slovenia, there is also a very short historical outline and that it would be mentioned - I think it would not be bad - that when it comes to foreign influences, interests, it would be mentioned that the territory of the Republic of Slovenia was in the past a target of the great, express interests of the great European nations. And it is good to talk about national security that in a country as important political factors as citizens are aware that such aspirations, or the plans and ambitions of the great nations on the spheres of interest, are never really over; but these interests, these ambitions on the spheres of interest and on the influence or hegemony of certain territories are being pursued today in a different way. We know that in the past the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has been exposed not only to ambitions of interest, but to the fact that in times of global crises, world wars have often been occupied. And from this point of view, it would be good to note that the Republic of Slovenia must pay attention to the development of such, say, aspirations, such policies, such politicians and such persons in countries, because such phenomena in the neighbourhood must be reacted to. I am aware that if Slovenia becomes a member of the European Union and, above all, a full-fledged member of NATO, such fears, if I say so, are largely unnecessary, because the European space, including the Republic of Slovenia, will be released. But today, as I say, this would make sense in some way, and I am surprised, or I would like an answer from the Government, whether it has also been considered whether there has ever been a chapter in the draft resolution that would touch this historical figure, any threats or aspirations to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, as he mentioned, these great nations in some way are keeping in their own way or are eternal plans to preserve the influence of this sphere of interest and then to move on to other methods in times of global crisis. Indeed, even in Slovenia, we sometimes hear that there are also certain policies in the neighbourhood and abroad, which in some ways express their discontent with the current borders of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the fact that borders are unalterable in Europe, with all international treaties and obligations. Thus, for example, it may happen that a candidate for an Italian MP is also campaigning in Istria; then we have cases where we are seeing ambitions, appetites or nostalgia along the Rapal border. We are also aware, for example, that some of the events in the near past also involved the recognition of Slovenian rights [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Please, Mr Jerovšek, if you can finish with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	If I mention only the case of the beatification of the bishop of Slomsk, we know that the Roman curia, where the main influence of the Italian bishop's conference, has contributed significantly to the delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your five minutes are up. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. The resolution was accompanied by amendments and complementary proposals, namely, you have a review on the table, and especially in addition to the review, since they were submitted later, complementary and amending proposals to the motion for a resolution by the New Slovenia Group of Members and, in particular, on the third sheet, a supplementary proposal, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, so that we will decide in order through chapters. However, I ask you to be careful that we will work on the basis of three complementary and variable proposals. If you'll excuse me, because they treat each other the same way as the amendments, I'll just call it amendments, so many times I don't use both words. I am putting to the debate two amendments to the motion for a resolution, which are under review, namely the motion for a defence committee for both amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment from the review under 1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving to debate and decision on the amendments to Chapter 2 of the Interests of the Republic of Slovenia. We have two amendments here. Both proposers are the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. The mother's working body supports both amendments, the government doesn't oppose them. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We are still voting on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. Now I ask you to take into account the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, for we will hold a debate and a decision on the amendments to Chapter 3.4. - Sources of endangering the national security of the Republic of Slovenia - whose proposer is the New Slovenia parliamentary group; then the amendment on Chapter 4 - National Security Policy of the Republic of Slovenia; and the amendment to Chapter 4.1. - Foreign policy - the same proposer. You want a word, Mr. Rich? Here you go, Undersecretary of State!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We haven't had a chance to make a statement on these amendments. With regard to the first amendment to Chapter 3.4, which deals with sources of threat and is proposed to introduce an additional deadline, this is a trans-regional epidemic, I would like to point out that the existing text already uses the term in the second paragraph of Chapter 3.4. - Health-epidemiological hazard. With this we have tried to cover all the current epidemics, on the one hand or on the other, one and the other species that are emerging in the world. This would make the additional introduction of the additional text less clear than it is now, so we do not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 3.4. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the amendment to Chapter 3.4 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Chapter 4 - National Security Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Lord Rich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We don't support the amendment. It is that in Chapter 2 - Interests of the Republic of Slovenia - in the proposed text of the resolution, national identity is defined as a living one, there is a much higher interest and the goal of all national security. As a result, it does not show that it repeats this same objective within just one of the policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I myself will support the New Slovenia proposal, because I believe that the protection and preservation of national identity is one of the real priorities of this country. We Slovenians are extremely benevolent to the appearance of foreign influences. We should be aware that slow indoctrination, for example, can lead to very severe, if not catastrophic, consequences. I must say that I am sometimes appalled when, from the waves of national radio or national television - not in broadcasts that are directed at minorities or bilingual - official reporters say hello with cia and so on. This is, in my opinion, something that suggests a lack of national pride. Therefore, I say that building a national identity should be a priority objective. I will certainly support this proposal to be included in the resolution on national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	I would also like to support this amendment, because it seems to me that there is something in the concept of national identity that is summed up, which is why, let's say, we have a country, let's say, this moment of celebration at the age of 10 and so on, that we are not talking about other things. This absolutely does not violate the other terms that this resolution brings, nor does it speak only of what one can only consider as a Slovenian. The identity of the nation is something on which these kinds of things are based and in this sense it seems wise to support it, because otherwise these strategies are written, not so useful, but more than some kind of essays and in such kinds of texts it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving to a vote and a decision on the amendment to chapter 4, which is proposed by the Nova Slovenija Group. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 25 votes to 18. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the amendment to Chapter 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Chapter 4.1 of the Foreign Policy, which is also proposed by the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Lord Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	We do not object to the amendment or addition, which also applies to the next one, which also applies to Chapter 4.2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now going back to reviewing the amendments because it is to Chapter IV. and IV.1 an amendment has been tabled, the proposer of which is the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. The mother's working body has not been defined, the government does not oppose the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are returning to the list on which are the amendments of the New Slovenia Group. I am making an amendment to Chapter IV.2 in the debate and decision-making process - Defence policy. Two amendments to the same Group of Members have been tabled in this Chapter. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We remain with the amendments of the New Slovenia Group. I am making an amendment to Chapter IV.3 for discussion and decision - Policy for ensuring internal security. Anybody want to talk? Lord Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Madam Vice-President, we do not oppose the amendment under IV.3 and under IV.4.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	I'd just like to ask. We have tabled the Social Democrats under IV.2 one amendment. How's that? As was said, it was New Slovenia, which is why I ask if it was our amendment because it was adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	It's my fault. I'm sorry. The amendment under Chapter IV.2 is proposed by the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you so much for the heads-up. The amendment was adopted. We are discussing chapter IV.3 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	I support this amendment myself, but I would suggest to the proposer that the word "including" be eliminated. The key role of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of internal security is also effective control and protection of the borders of the Republic of Slovenia on land, sea and air," because if the word "also" sounds like a side task. [[...]] This is a key task of the Republic of Slovenia, so I propose that they exclude the word "including" - "is effective control". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. If I may suggest verbally, we would also delete that word "including" as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Mr Sok, it is in accordance with the rules that you make a written proposal to delete the word; you can also write it on your hand. Does the government want to be defined by the proposal? [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no, we would vote on the amended amendment. Lord Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	That is how we support or oppose the dictates of this amendment or additions. It's actually one of the key tasks, because it's not just this one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Mr. Sok. I'm sorry I can't hear you talking on the phone. Please sign up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We leave such an amendment as it is, and let the national assembly be defined to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the unchanged amendment to Chapter 4.3. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 4.4. - Economic policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. There were 46 votes against three. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 4.5. - A policy of protection against natural and other disasters. Anybody want to talk? Lord Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We do not support the amendment because it speaks of natural and other disasters from the point of view of the threat, and during the sources of the threat this area is particularly exposed, and secondly, because in the dictatorship there is also the term 'great epidemic' in addition to other disasters. According to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, these major epidemics are covered by the term "and other disasters". Such a provision would therefore be very inconsistent in this part of the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 30. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the amendment to Chapter 4.5 has not been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 5.1. - The foundations of the national security system. Anybody want to talk? Lord Rich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	We are particularly opposed to the amendment or addition because the problem of demographic policies, demographic objectives, is already covered as one of the objectives of national security policy in chapter 4 in the first paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 29. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're going back to the amendment review. I shall make two amendments to Chapter 5.2 for discussion and decision. - Management, management and organisation of the national security system. The amendment is proposed under one by the Defence Committee, the Government agrees with it; the amendment's proposer under two is the Commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. The original working body of the amendment is not supported, the government has not identified itself. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment of the Defence Committee. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	Here you go, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	No, I see that we will have to vote again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Secondly, we repeat the vote on the amendment of the Defence Committee to Chapter 5.2. This amendment is under review. We'll vote next time. There are 51 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment of the committee under 1 has been adopted. We are also deciding on the amendment under 2, whose proposer is the commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. We're voting. Explanation of voice. [[A voice from behind.]] Do we want to explain your voice already, Mr Jerovšek? [[...]] I think I've made myself clear. The theme was over. However, I allow you, of course, to interrupt the vote in order to explain your vote. However, I respectfully ask that we do so before we turn on the voting apparatus. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	I apologize for having had to explain this before the previous amendment if I wanted to, so now in the explanatory memorandum, because we cannot express our personal opinion here or now I owe a personal opinion. [[...]] But I'm going to have a hard time deciding here, because the committee's thinking that, as it was written down, it might be constitutionally controversial. It says here that the National Security Council is directing and coordinating activities. However, since in the Government Act there is only an advisory body and such a matter could be constitutionally disputed, but I cannot ask the secretariat for an opinion now, so I warned the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	It would be very nice, Mr Jerovšek, to say in the end that you will not vote for this amendment. That's the explanation for the voice. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2, whose proposer is the supervisory committee. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 28. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment, which is under review by the amendments. The amendment is proposed by the committee. This is an amendment to Chapter 6 - Application and complementarity of the resolution. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We voted on an amendment related to the Security Intelligence Service. I think we will have to repeat the vote on this amendment. We're voting again on the amendment. I'm afraid not now. We're voting on the amendment again. We're voting. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I would suggest that we vote by raising our hands. Please, if it's possible, we'll finish this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	I think it's a well-intentioned proposal. Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. I think the technical services will be retraining the device in a few minutes. We have two more votes. Before we count, I think the technique will be corrected. We will ask the services to correct us, then we have only two more votes, on this amendment and on the resolution as a whole. I'm adjourning the session for five minutes and moving on at 18.50. As the next point begins, it is therefore pointless to start today. Here you go! I'm adjourning the session in five minutes, Dr. Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We will once again vote on the last amendment of which the Committee is proposing and we will indirectly determine our presence. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government for their cooperation, and also to the representatives of the secretariat thank you very much. Your Honor! We're going to ask the technical services to go through the equipment in detail today. There may have also been a reason in the facilities that many times we failed to vote and vote with a valid vote. Just let me get a message. Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we will continue the meeting by discussing the 10th item of the agenda, then we will move on to the 11th item and continue the meeting in order to proceed. Thank you so much and good night.
