ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u1	I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. In a few minutes, we'll start our 10th extraordinary session. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that some of our colleagues and colleagues have been detained, namely: colleague Vizjak, Kontić, colleague Zlubec, Petan from 11.15 a.m. [[Comrade Petan is with us]] , colleague Lavrinc, colleague Gaber, Barovic, Levič, colleague of Feri Horvat cannot participate in the discussion after 12.00, colleague Maria Pozsonec, colleague Kangler and Dr. Cukjat. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. There are 58 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, to the meeting, whom I warmly welcome among us, and the Minister of Finance mag. Anton Ropa and the other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I also welcome. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I have convened an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly on the basis of the rules of procedure for the consideration of the State budget and the requirement of 29 Members and Members, and on the basis of an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to 9.10.2001. Comrade Petan, do you have a procedure? Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable Prime Minister and other present! Given that the main point of today's meeting is the presentation of the draft budget memorandum for two years, it is said not only for one year, but more importantly, we are in the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, when we learn that the memorandum will be interpreted by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, which of course is positive and of course we welcome them, but we are happy, as was the practice in previous years, that the budget view is also given by the Director of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, the Director of the Health Insurance Institute and, of course, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Last year this practice fell short for the first time, and last year we pointed out this weakness because we believe that in these institutions about 50% of the value of the state budget is turning. [[Of course, it's not in a direct connection, but it's this kind of value.]] . We believe that it is right that the representatives of these institutions are also present and give their views in this debate. We filed this in writing, not until yesterday, but when we found out who was going to be present and who wasn't. Therefore, Mr President of the National Assembly, I would like to point out this before the agenda is set, if there is any chance that these representatives will get to know us, because it is large numbers, especially with the PIC, because we know that the state budget must guarantee the liquidity of this fund. And given that we pointed out this last year, we believe that it is right to make a certain weight and that Members would also be aware of the views of these institutions on our financial policy and on our public finances. Therefore, President, on behalf of the two groups of Members, if it is still possible for us to get representatives of these institutions, especially in the light of the fact that we have learned that these representatives will be able to represent this on the radio today; we do not know why we should not hear this in the National Assembly. We believe that the National Assembly is the first institution where all views on public finances must be given, so please, Mr President, if it is possible to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. I ask you to take note of my next explanation. I received a proposal from two parliamentary groups yesterday, just before noon. I immediately tried to determine whether the representatives of the institutions to be invited, if they so decided, were at all attainable, given that they were so late informed of this possibility. Of course, I received a notice that one of them was absent and is abroad, someone else has obligations that were planned earlier; but certainly everyone has warned that the invitation came very late. In addition, I would like to remind you that the President's College was on Tuesday and that such an initiative has not been made there. I propose - I also suggested this in yesterday's talks with representatives of both parliamentary groups, Dr. Bayuk and Mag. Visionaries - so that such a decision would not be put to the vote today, as the representatives of these institutions would bring their obligations to light. In addition, it might be more useful, in return, to discuss this possibility at the College; in the next session, there is an opportunity for them to come. Today, I propose that the National Assembly retain its dignity by not inviting representatives who have other obligations and who have not been able to plan their performance in the National Assembly to this meeting, which is of a demonstration nature. Please let me explain - this is what I asked my colleague Dr. Bayuk and Mag yesterday. Visionary - you accept with understanding the knowledge. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. So, I accept your apology, but I would still say that all the representatives of these institutions also have their deputies, these are large institutions. That's one thing. Secondly, little bothers us, however, that these representatives, who are supposed to be sitting, will have a word on the radio, which is good, and that is also right, but it is wrong that the excuses are when it is necessary to come to Parliament and Members to clarify their views and views on public finances. So I accept your apology, but I don't understand why these representatives aren't there, and if they can't come themselves, why don't they send their deputies. This is our criticism, not yours, but the representatives of the institutions that you would like to hear and see here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u5	We'll take that under advisement. However, I would like to say that the leadership of the National Assembly is working to ensure that, if the representatives of the institutions come before the National Assembly, their main representatives will come. I think it is right if we decide, in the discussion on the budget below, that the first and most responsible come before the Members and Members. So we can continue to identify agenda items. First of all, we are moving on to proposals for withdrawal - I have not received these. Therefore, we can move on to proposals for enlargement. As already stated in the meeting, I propose that the assembly extend the agenda by presenting the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda by presenting the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. That's what I'm putting to the vote. 67 Members and Members present, 52 supported by this proposal, no one opposed it [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. Procedural proposal, colleague Kacin, chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government! At our closed session today, the Foreign Policy Committee discussed the text of a joint declaration on the fight against terrorism tabled by Borut Pahor. At the closed session, we discussed possible amendments, examined the amendments of the government which it had submitted, and then drew up a new final text of the declaration, taking into account all these proposals. I would like to say that the declaration was adopted unanimously, with all the votes cast by all the political parties present at the closed meeting. However, it did not seem appropriate for us to discuss such important work, such an important text, and to decide in a normal way to waste time with each individual amendment. We therefore decided unanimously once again to propose to Borut Pahor that he withdraw the text of the declaration and instead to submit the final text of the text, signed by all the members of the Foreign Policy Committee present who voted on it today at the meeting, and by Mr Borut Pahor personally, and to submit the procedure. Thus we would not have to vote on the amendments, only the parliamentary groups could present their position and I think that the conditions for us to adopt this document are met by acclamation. On the basis of all this, the Committee has authorized me to propose today to extend the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting with point 1a - this is a declaration on a joint fight against terrorism. The Declaration is now being written in purgatory and I believe that we can accept it with great support today. I therefore ask that you consider the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Policy and also accept our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin, Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. I agree with the proposal as a proposal. Anybody want a word on that? [[He doesn't want to.]] Are you suggesting that this should be dealt with under point 1.b, after the conclusion of the budget presentation, Comrade Kacin? [[Yeah.]] Anyone else want a word on this? I find that no, and I am putting this proposal to the vote. 66 Members and Members are present. 61 were in favour, 1 opposed it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Anyone else have an extension proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a fast-track law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a State aid law to address the effects of drought, cold and storms in agriculture for 2001. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. I would like to invite a government representative to present his views to the National Assembly. [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. [[No one wants to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. I find that 66 Members and Members are present. There were 65 for it, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] This proposal is therefore adopted. The draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling is also included on the agenda. The National Assembly has already adopted the Government's proposal to adopt the law on a rapid basis at its 8th meeting. It is therefore not necessary to discuss and vote on this proposal. I therefore propose for today's meeting the agenda which you have received with reference and with the comments adopted. We are voting on this. There are 64 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 52 supported by this proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the agenda of the 10th extraordinary meeting. That way we can move on to 1. On the day-to-day basis, this is at the presentation of the budget memo and the proposals of the Republic of Slovenia's budget for the years 2002 and 2003. I propose that we carry out a presentation of those documents together. This is the first act of addressing and adopting the state budgets submitted in the National Assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 216 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representative of the Government, the Prime Minister in this case, and the Minister of Finance shall present a budget memorandum and a draft state budget. There is no debate on this presentation today. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovska, to present the budgetary memorandum and the draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2002 and 2003. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! You have before you the draft budgets for 2002 and 2003. The preparation of the budget for two years is a novelty introduced by the amended Public Finance Act. This will allow for longer-term planning of budgetary expenditure and revenue, as well as more efficient policy-making and implementation and multi-annual programmes in specific areas of government action. We also continue to pursue a balanced development policy in these budgets. Therefore, it would be difficult to speak only of individual budgetary priorities. We also want to maintain in advance a relatively good dynamic of economic growth while at the same time ensuring as much social balance in the country as possible. A relatively balanced development in various areas is the main feature of the Slovenian model in the last year. I spoke more about this in the spring presentation of the budget when I highlighted our orientation to continue, in fact, such a balanced model of development, some search for the right balance between the social state and the most efficient economy, which, of course, needs to be burdened as much as possible. However, practice or experience in many countries in this decade confirms the eligibility of our model, since those who have gone more into one or the other extremes then change their policy and want to approach a more balanced intermediate model. For the past two years, it has seemed that we could get into a balance of payments problem, like most or, in fact, all of the transition countries. However, the payment - balance-of-payments developments have substantially improved this year - exports have increased considerably. So we don't see this problem anymore, or this potential problem. However, we are faced with some other serious questions this year that we have not met in the planning of the budget in recent years. The macroeconomic frameworks in which the two-year budget is budgeted are harmonised and realistic in our assessment, if we are based on the assumptions so far known. But we know that the world economy has become much more unpredictable since the recent terrorist attacks in the United States. The events and reactions of the international community following 11 September add to the uncertainty. The war on terrorism in the world is not yet over, it has just begun. What will follow, we do not know, and even less, what will be the impact on the global, European and Slovenian economies. Illusions about permanent stability, about the sustainable growth of the American economy as a global locomotive, are obviously over for now, at least for the time being. Economic forecasts have become much more unappreciative work, but they were not usually 100 percent before. At present, only the first outline shows how extensive the effects of recent events on the global economy could be. The US government is carrying out its first extensive interventions to remedy the most affected activities and prevent economic downturn. As you know, the US Government has proposed a comprehensive programme of subsidies for the rehabilitation of air carriers and some other related activities and is preparing a very extensive package of interventions in the economy, which is quite unusual for this, otherwise a very market-oriented economy and country. Some European economic sectors are also affected. The most obvious are aviation, tourism and related activities. You've seen there's even a number of bankruptcys in this area. Influences are chained, economies are intertwined and intertwined at a time of globalisation. In addition to the poorer economic developments, Europe is also awaiting the real introduction of the euro as a common European currency with the start of the new year. Although the euro has been in operation for almost two years in the accounting sense, I note a number of fears in the euro area countries at the time of the actual transition also to pay with a common currency or uncertainty, since this will be the first time in such a large number of different countries. Therefore, there are few who are concerned about this, at least they are concerned by the uncertainties, and they are also predicting additional problems in the enlargement process of the European Union, if this could be reflected in slowing down the enlargement process of the European Union. We certainly hope that this will not be the case, and we are trying to influence these developments to the best of our ability to ensure that the enlargement of the European Union goes forward. However, recent developments and the new need for international cooperation give added importance, strategic importance, once again a historical significance that should weigh the various pragmatic concerns and short-term interests of individual governments in the European Union. New developments have begun with the adoption of government budgets. It's just a hunch. And it was not yet clear enough that they could already be included in the budget. That is why it is so important that we are all, the government, the national assembly, the economy, in short, all actors ready for any unexpected events, for different movements, and that we are able to respond to them quickly and effectively. However, if we are already reacting with more radical measures today, there are not enough elements to do so. This would probably be a quick and excessive reaction. However, it is essential to ensure adequate flexibility and capacity to react when necessary and, of course, very seriously and to monitor and monitor developments in the global economy. It is therefore to be expected that, even in the budgetary decision-making process, we may come up with additional proposals, if necessary, in the course of the budgetary decision-making process in the National Assembly, with proposals that would provide answers to global and European uncertainties, perhaps different movements. Of course, within the scope of the options we have for such proposals and for such responses. In particular, we will review once again all aspects of national security and possible budgetary measures in this regard. As you have probably noticed, this is done by many governments in the world and they are checking many security systems that have previously acted as some sort of inertia, in fact with a somehow lost sense that something really can happen. Now this feeling has come to light, and in many countries, as you have seen, many protections, including anti-biological, anti-chemical and similar protections against mass weapons. We too, without having any specific indications, but of course we are also checking all these systems and our security measures. And if we find that this is necessary and where we can perfect something, we will propose it. So even if it is necessary in the context of the budgetary debate. While government economic growth forecasts already take into account the impact of the expected global economic cycle, which was declining, a lower export growth from this year and consequently a slightly lower growth is expected in 2002, 4.2 per cent instead of 4.4 per cent. In the preparation of future budgets, we have considered various options to mitigate the impact of a possible deterioration of the global economic situation on economic growth and public finances. If it turns out there can be a deeper recession in the world, we will propose appropriate measures, as I said. In particular, I am thinking of wage and public policy measures that would reduce the cost of running businesses if there were additional pressure on their competitiveness, which is possible, and if there were, of course, a reduction, in particular a reduction in exports and investment activities, as a result of some of the effects of recession movements. However, we retain, repeat, despite all that, a rather favourable and relatively optimistic economic forecast. Some believe that the forecast of 4.2% of economic growth next year may be somewhat overly optimistic, but we do not yet have concrete reasons to go with a lower forecast. I think we need to maintain our ambition and goal, despite the situation, to continue the relatively high rate of economic growth that we have achieved for almost a decade. Our long-standing average economic growth is over 4% of the social product per year. I have already repeatedly stressed that this is twice as much as the average of the European Union at this time, but nevertheless I think that, with the various measures we have recently taken in economic policy, we should strive to increase this growth rate first, but not to reduce it. At the same time, I would like to say that from 1995 to 2000, of all candidate countries, we have reduced the backlog of the European Union average, i.e. by 8% of the points we have reduced the backlog of the average and now our average is 72% of the European Union average. So our social product per capita by purchasing power is 72% of the social product in the European Union. So, things are moving, the difference is shrinking between us and the European Union. As you may have already seen, this may cause us some difficulties in negotiations with the European Union, especially regional policy, because Slovenia is already becoming too developed because we are going to exceed 75% of the European Union average. We are therefore looking for a way to at least partially qualify to become users of various solidaritys, in particular the European Union's regional funds. But this is a result of success, in short, from this point of view, Slovenia is too successful and will therefore have more difficulty in participating in the European Union's solidarity mechanisms, which are aimed primarily at those who are less successful, less developed and should move closer. Nevertheless, we are, of course, striving to succeed. Foreign demand remains the main factor of economic growth in 2002 and 2003, as it has been so far. As I have already said, we estimate its growth slightly lower, but still relatively high. We expect it to increase, that there will continue to be a high rate of saving the population, which in recent years has been a relatively favourable data and a basis for investment as well. We expect the flow of foreign capital to continue to increase in the form of direct and port foil investments in our economy. This, together with the domestic resources we create by saving, would, of course, create additional funds for investment, accelerate the restructuring of the economy, because many assessments, analyses show us that, as a rule, investment in which foreign capital is involved, has a greater impact, increased economic performance and, together with domestic resources, this would contribute to achieving that desired goal, not less, but more than 4 per cent of growth per year. Inflation has recently been relatively strongly present in our debates, in our views on economic policy. But lately it has been declining in line with our expectations. The value of the dollar and the price of oil has always had a significant impact. While there is a great deal of uncertainty in the global economy, we expect that its movement in the near future should not be as negative from the point of view of our inflation as it has been in the previous period, but rather more favourable, as the prices of oil are currently falling, even though it may occur in some unforeseen event that they are rapidly rising again. And it's dropped the dollar value, and it's probably gonna stay on that level for a while. We will strive to reduce the rate of inflation further with those instruments that we have at our disposal, through further price liberalisation, by eliminating the indexation, particularly as a necessity, including the abolition of the basic interest rate - there are many shared opinions in the professional public. However, I join myself in saying that without the abolition of indexation mechanisms, including interest rate indexation, we will not come to those European inflation rates in short to fall below 5.6% of inflation per year. So if we keep these mechanisms, then we'll probably continue to generate inflation at least on this level. This is also our experience from the previous period, when we have approached these numbers, but it has proved to be difficult from here on out if we do not intervene in these mechanisms. I'd also like to point out the wages. We talk a lot about wages, about salary growth. On a long-term average, we have managed to achieve a slightly lower wage growth than productivity growth. In short, productivity grew faster than wages grew. Lately, wages have grown slightly in the public sector over the past period and I am joining estimates that they have grown slightly or that we cannot withstand such growth in the long term without harmful consequences. It is normal for such derogations to occur in the short term in individual segments of economic policy, with individual aggregates, macroeconomic aggregates. But then it is necessary to correct and regulate these aggregates so that a balanced model can continue to function as it has been in Slovenia for the last 10 years. That is why I expect that we will also find a relatively high wage growth in the public sector, and I hope that with a smart agreement with the unions and that without the need for more radical measures, we will once again lead to balanced long-term movements. There is a need for moderation and common sense in all partners, particularly in all social partners. The over-performance of a social partner in one area, for example in the wage-fighting union, will in the next, even if they succeed in a short period of time, due to the overall economic trends, then in the next step, the next period will lead to the need for counter-measures, following more radical measures towards wage reduction. Therefore, it is far more reasonable and reasonable, of course, to try to make a direct reaction and to negotiate in such a way that we know that wage movements are sustainable, they are growing all the time, the wages in Slovenia are growing real. However, we must not be, but we must not have excessive demands, because then we will jeopardise this long-term real growth, both of social product and of wages. So I hope that, in the next phase of our discussions with the social partners, we will succeed in continuing this developmental balanced model. We have also given a lot of thought to the deficit, the budget deficit. As you have probably already seen, for 2002 we are forecasting a current deficit of 0.98 per cent and in 2003 0.86 per cent. In short, gradual decline, but definitely below 1 percent. The big question is whether to go even faster by reducing or eliminating deficits. This would be possible, but with an intervention on specific budgetary areas, with such an intervention that would have already brought problems, developmental problems in individual or larger areas of the country's operation. According to our assessment, a more gradual approach is more reasonable, but it must be properly targeted, and it must produce a result. By actually maintaining positive developments in most areas, including overall economic growth, while at the same time reducing the budget deficit against zero, which is the plan, and at the same time reducing public debt. My assessment from experience in all these years is that for something more, for a more radical intervention Slovenia is not yet ready. For a more radical intervention in public consumption. Simply because it doesn't feel like it's really necessary. If I were even more pessimistic or realistic from this point of view, I would say, even from observations in other countries that radical cuts are only possible to reduce public consumption when economic crises occur. It is then that some public consensus is created, a common consensus that such measures are meaningful. Even then, many do not go around without major shocks, social and political shocks. So, of course, the best thing to do is what we've been trying to do all these years. To maintain these balances, to try to regulate them gradually, and to appeal to each other to reason, moderation and common sense in all of this. So, if we are strong enough in the implementation of our planned policy, we will reduce the deficit, as we have foreseen and without specific shocks, but of course with some moderate savings in various areas, there will be no need for some major shocks. While we are also considering some possible measures in the government, which would also reduce the budget deficit slightly and, above all, increase reserves to allow greater flexibility, perhaps in the face of greater international uncertainty. When we consider all the arguments for and towards the end and perhaps even in a somewhat clearer international situation, we will come up with appropriate proposals. However, I do not agree with the estimates that although Slovenia has a significantly higher deficit and financing of such a deficit in domestic and foreign financial markets with very favourable conditions due to its good financial ratings, it would not be wise and it would not be safe to go into some greater debt in a situation of general, increased international uncertainty. Nevertheless, we must also have this sense of security built in here and reduce the possibility that such or other unexpected movements can get us off balance and into a crisis situation. Therefore, we must certainly continue this direction, the gradual reduction of both the budgetary deficit and the public debt, although it is also, of course, significantly lower than in most countries. As you know, in 2002 we also showed a one-time so-called flat-rate budget deficit of about 75 billion tolars. This will also be aligned with the European Union methodology, although this does not mean a real deficit in 2002; the actual deficit, as I said, will be 0.98%. This deficit, however, is more accountable, levelling, but will allow for greater stability in the financing of the budget, better liquidity of the budget. I would also use this opportunity to ask, after all, all state budget users to adhere strictly to financial disciplines, because there will now be more opportunities for this, and that the state would not generate financial non-discipline and inequity in the rest of the economy, but rather to contribute to better payment discipline and normal liquidity in the economy as a whole. I would like to point out as an important element of the 2002 budget a reduction, in particular a real reduction in material costs - we are therefore trying to introduce some savings in material costs, by 0.6% in real terms - and a real increase in investments, which I think is important. Investment transfers or investments will increase by 15.1% in 2002 and 6.8% in 2003. This is largely about known investments: the construction of a highway crossing, the continuation of some investments in health care, construction and equipment of the southern border, the development of electronic administration, the continuation of investments in education and the like. I will try to highlight some individual priorities, although I repeat, our objective is a balanced budget in all areas; we do not want to create deficit areas that are then accumulated and can then create a major problem. Here, too, we have the experience of individual countries, where after years of saving and reducing public spending, for example, during the time of the Government of Thatcher, there have been major problems in the education, public transport and so on, or health, especially public health, and then suddenly there are many problems that need to be addressed in these areas. Thus, such phenomena can occur, including another extreme, if there is too much restrictions on public spending, and then there is almost a breakdown of these systems and then much greater efforts to establish them. Recently, we have been trying to allocate additional funds to health care and to continue some of the known investments, especially the paediatric clinic, the cancer institute and in 2002 we are planning a 31 - percent real increase in health resources and an additional 8.3 - percent real increase in 2003. As revenue from the projected increase in excise duty on products having a negative impact on health [[Tobacco, alcohol]] , we will use for investments in health care and to reduce the deficit of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. In the next two years, nearly 6% of the social product is devoted to education and education. The share is increasing. To illustrate that even in OECD countries this share is lower, the share of public funding for education is lower, 4.8 per cent only, although it is true that the higher share of private resources for education is. Our priorities, our objectives in this area are known and despite the problems that we sometimes have, occasionally with the whole, with public finances or too much pressure on wages in this sector, this remains our priority and I think it is right for us to strive for the highest possible quality of the education system in Slovenia. However, we pay special attention to the education of adults and young unemployed people, especially those who are more vulnerable to categories and particular emphasis on all life education, which is becoming a fundamental guide everywhere in the world. It is also a basic concept of job creation, where countries are not devoting themselves, no longer channeling so much resources to keep jobs and not subsidising jobs that can become redundant, economically unsustainable, but channel more resources into people's education, to prepare them to be more flexible so that workers can also change jobs so that they can hire themselves, hire themselves or generally, so as to increase flexibility. This is, in fact, a problem for Europe and Slovenia, that we will have to increase such flexibility, but I think that we have at least basically a fairly good education system in place so that we can make what we are missing in this direction with the right emphasis. We pay a lot of attention to regional development. There's been a lot of talk about that lately. We are seeing a significant increase in direct regional development incentives, and if we add European incentives to this, in short, the European Union funds, these funds could increase by 100% nominally in the next year in view of this year's period. I think that this is, of course, an urgent priority and we must do everything we need to improve the absorption capacity of our regions, our communities for use, to make effective use of these resources. In short, the funds in the European Union are expected to be, and I hope they will be, for some time, but it is very important how we organise ourselves and what our absorption capacity is. We have been paying special attention to these aspects recently, including in the budget, i.e. more resources for these purposes. The priority continues to be the Ministry of Environment and Space, since in 2002 we are increasing the real resources by 22%. In doing so, I would mention an additional recapitalisation of the housing fund, and two and a billion tolars in both years, which will continue our efforts to provide as many housing as possible and, of course, the possibility of purchasing these apartments. In the agricultural field, we are continuing the agricultural reform. It's not easy. There are a lot of questions open, a lot of resources we are investing in agriculture. Of course, we also expect appropriate results in agriculture itself. Agriculture cannot live only on the incentives it would receive from the country. And according to our estimates, the income situation of our agriculture is already comparable to that of the European Union, and the level of incentives is also comparable to that. It is therefore very important, of course, within these means, that, with the right economic policy and with the efforts of farmers themselves, we increase efficiency in order for all of this to result in some real result. In doing so, I would stress the importance of promoting rural development and promoting ecological nutrition, biofood. This is becoming an important element of agricultural policy everywhere. After the crises in Europe in the last year, countries are very much focused on healthy nutrition, on organic nutrition, and we are also trying with our instruments to guide our farmers to such production as much as possible. I think that there is a real perspective in this, and it is much better for us to adapt to this as soon as possible, including our agricultural producers, because we can find the right market, the right market niche for ourselves and also for the future. The insistence on some traditional productions that no longer have the right consumer support would, of course, be pointless. And the country, with its encouragement, could not sustain them for a long time. We've talked about the traffic situation. We have important priorities and the construction of the highway cross, including other roads, and the modernisation of the railway, especially this. All the years we spend important resources, public funds in these projects, even this time, in this time budget. We reiterate and have also intensified our efforts to try to obtain private funds in addition to public funds in order to complete these projects more quickly, either through concessions or in other ways. According to our assessment, this is, of course, the only way and the right way to complete these projects as soon as possible, as most of our citizens want. However, raising public funds for these purposes could, of course, jeopardise other areas and the overall balance and therefore we need to find alternative options, additional resources. I'd like to say two words about defense. We are investing some additional resources in the defence budget. According to the method of association, NATO will increase the percentage of the social product given for defence in 2002 to 1.49 and in 2003 to 1.52. We are also investing in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in particular to establish the Sehengen border, which is also, of course, in connection with the security situation of Slovenia. I have already said in the introduction that the issue of the security of Slovenia in the light of new events, the new international situation we are further studying, and that we may also propose some further corrections in this regard, perhaps even a little more resources for this purpose. So if these findings are to go this way, we will also have to find and secure these funds. However, despite the fact that Slovenia is, of course, a primarily peace-loving country, the security issue is relevant to everyone, including our citizens, and they expect us from the country, that we also ensure this security and that we continue to think in the best possible way to ensure security. There is no absolute security anywhere in the world, of course, but we can do more or less for our own safety, and of course we would be irresponsible if we did not think further about these issues in today's world situation. Finally, I would like to raise one more question that I will not hold you too long - this is a matter of privatisation, in particular the privatisation of banks. That's what we've been talking about lately. Our orientation has been earlier, and we have talked about this in previous budgets, so our orientation is to get the country out of, for example, banking, even from entrepreneurship, for example, ironworks. Our own experience is that the country is not the best master or best owner. Of course, the state must take care of regulation, coordinate a number of activities in this country, create appropriate frameworks, but direct management, or banks or businesses, from a country generally does not produce optimal results anywhere in the world. That's what we think. We believe that banks can be more efficient with different ownership, as well as other companies. So that's one aspect. Another aspect is that we are trying to privatise banks with as many assets as possible, to obtain as many funds as possible, by selling state shares, thereby reducing public debt as much as possible because part of the public debt was created for the purpose of the recovery of both state banks. So, a lot of tax money has gone to this end, and I think it is only right to try to make as much money as possible with privatisation, to make as much money available as possible, and thus, in fact, to repay the taxpayers, to reduce public debt. That's our lead. I am therefore a little surprised lately when I see a lot of debate about whether there are any other national interests here, besides those I have mentioned - that we need to ensure that banks are privatised at home, that they must remain primarily in domestic ownership, so that we can protect some national interest. The national interest protects only the state, on behalf of all citizens, when the citizens so agree together. To say that a private entrepreneur would better protect the public interest than another private entrepreneur, I don't understand that. Even if we sell the bank today, for example, to domestic owners, Ninobe guarantee that tomorrow these domestic owners will, of course, sell these funds to a better provider anywhere in the world, and of course, from domestic privatisation will be nothing. So if we think that it is absolutely necessary for the state to maintain control of banks, including ownership control, then we should keep them publicly owned. However, there can be no way to protect national interest by selling them to a group of private people, assuming that this group of private people will better protect national interest than any other group of private individuals. Therefore, I would like to stress that our exclusive quality criterion, or the benefits of the tenders, will be the level of resources, as well as the assessment, of course, of the strategic partner, of the seriousness of the partner, because we also want to increase the efficiency of the banking system in the country. So that our banking system will be completely comparable and competitive with the international system, so that our companies will not pay higher costs in the international competition than their competitors. This is what we need to ensure, and this is a national interest. So we're only going to follow these criteria. I would also like to draw attention to the risks of excessive closure of the domestic economy, including through the closure of ownership, through the closure of capital flows. I don't know a case in a world where that would work. There is then too much interconnection between management, ownership functions, and some other criteria in decision-making, not just economic criteria and performance criteria. Such closed economies then become less efficient over the longer term, and another economy develops, not the one we tend to pursue - that is, as effectively as possible, in the interests of consumers, citizens. In addition, I stress that in Slovenia we need, in addition to the resources, the domestic resources obtained through our own savings, also funds from abroad. If we wanted to increase growth rates from current, say, 4% to 5% or 6%, it would be even better. I believe that this is necessary, internal closure would, of course, reduce these rates of growth and, as a result, lead to fewer jobs, because things are connected in this way. Dear Members! I have raised some questions, some observations about our economic movements, including plans for further reflection in the government, as I actually see them. I also wrote this performance, but in these basic lines, I have said a few more reflections, i.e. those that I think are more appropriate for us to continue to have in our joint decision-making. I would like to reiterate once again that we have a considerable responsibility. People trust us, of course, that we will know how to lead and manage this country, that we will also be able to work properly with public resources, that we will know the right time to identify and respond to the problems that come from abroad. Much of this is being concentrated in the 2002 budget, and even in the 2003 budget, because it is a two-year period, this is even more important. Once again, I would stress the need to maintain as much flexibility as possible and to maintain openness and respond when it is necessary to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Ropa, for further presentation of the budget memorandum and draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2002 and 2003. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr President! The budgetary memorandum and draft budgets for 2002 and 2003 shall specify the public finances policy and the basic development orientations of the Republic of Slovenia as defined by the Slovenian Economic Development Strategy and the pre-accession economic programme of Slovenia. This proposal is particularly important because this is the first time the government has come before the National Assembly with a budget for two years, and by adopting two budgets we will be included among those few countries in Europe and in the world that have also actually managed to implement longer-term planning of budgetary expenditure and revenue, thus allowing for longer-term planning. This means setting clear limits for the adoption of new contractual and legal public financial obligations in the future, increasing accountability and reducing uncertainty. It also means that there will be significantly less opportunities for new programming tasks and commitments to be adopted without confrontation, as well as with the adopted range of all the country's priorities and with the real possibility of funding them. While it is very important that, in supplementing the Law on Public Finance, we have foreseen our commitment and the task of monitoring the implementation of budgets for two years and supplementing and adapting them accordingly to the actual macroeconomic conditions and fiscal opportunities of the country and the economy. It is also important because the budgets for 2002 and 2003 will be adopted, in this we hope, probably the last budgets before Slovenia enters the European Union and will thus form the basis for Slovenia's final preparations for full membership in the European Union. In drawing up the draft budgets, we have drawn on the estimated basic macroeconomic indicators for 2001 to 2006 and the basic programme objectives and objectives and priorities set out in the budgetary memorandum. The most important priorities that we have pursued in the framework of the real opportunities and fiscal capacity assessment are, of course, supporting the accelerated design and development of a knowledge-based society - in this context, through new scholarship programmes and intensive building of student homes, we will increase accessibility for higher and high-level studies for all social groups - the renewal of secondary and vocational education programmes and the introduction of a professional diploma, which will facilitate the creation of an effective regional network of vocational and professional education. In the preparation of the budget, we have sought to provide resources to support scientific research projects, in particular in relation to the economy, and to simplify procedures for all users and citizens with information. Social security, solidarity and social inclusion are important priorities that we maintain, particularly for the most vulnerable groups. To this end, social assistance will be increased to ensure the exercise of increased rights under parental protection and family benefits. In the area of health care, the quality of health services should in particular be increased by increasing investment investments in hospitals, by increasing the contribution rate for health care and by further transferring budget resources to health-care facilities, and the existing level of compulsory health insurance rights can be maintained. For Slovenia, there is no alternative; we need to increase the competitiveness of the economy, not only through the various forms of State aid granted to individual companies, but also through a consistent, guided competition policy and the prevention of different monopolies. Strengthening technological infrastructure and programmes to promote new investments will also help to increase competitiveness. It is not to be overlooked that investment in road infrastructure will also contribute to the increase, particularly in the construction of highways, which are expected to accelerate in the coming years, including through increased participation of non-budgetary resources. The policy of promoting regional development and rural development is greatly strengthened by the 2002 and 2003 draft budgets. More equitable regional development is a long-term goal set by the State in many of the documents already adopted. In the coming years, by broad definition, we will devote around 3% of gross domestic product from the State budget for regional development. The budget shall include funds for these purposes in the financial plans of the various ministries and in the various programmes. The most financially powerful programmes are complementary funds to municipalities, development regional programmes, agricultural and environmental programmes, investments needed for the functioning of public services and infrastructure and certain state aid programmes for individual regions. In addition to these advantages, priority areas, the 2002 and 2003 budget will also provide resources to ensure conditions for the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. Such defined priorities and orientations will be achieved by the government through a clear combination of short-term macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, by promoting long-term development factors, as well as by an appropriate structure of government budget expenditure in this year and the following years. The government is aware that the estimates of economic developments for this year and next year following the terrorist attack on the United States of America have changed and are, as the Prime Minister has already said, worse than before. Therefore, we will make appropriate adjustments to the updated draft budget, resulting from new assessments of fundamental macroeconomic aggregates. This situation is also extremely important for debates in the National Assembly, as it is more than obvious that there is no possibility of further increases in budgetary expenditure in the coming years. One of the main guides in the preparation of the draft budgets for the next two years was to achieve as little government deficits as possible, ensure the smooth functioning of public services, maintain the level of social security achieved by the population and ensure an appropriate level of investment and thus implement pro-cyclical economic policy. In this respect, 2002 appears to be a turning point, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to stop the delay of the financial year in January of the following year and thus align the financial year with the calendar year. This measure will undoubtedly make public finances more transparent, more predictable and more stable. The harmonisation of the fiscal and calendar year 2002 will result in an increased deficit in revenue and expenditure balances, as only 11 months of inflows will be included in the revenue of the budget. While in 2002 it will amount to a deficit of current fiscal year 49.6 billion, or 0.98% of gross domestic product, in 2003, that is, in the first year following the harmonisation of fiscal and calendar year, the budget deficit will amount to only 48 billion or 0.86% of gross domestic product. This will keep the country in a declining trend of deficits, which will lead to smooth public finances within a few years. Dear Members and Members! With this presentation of budgets, we would like to show you some of the basic quantitative features of the 2002 and 2003 budgets more clearly, using the graphs on the screens that are in the hall. This allows us to make investments this year in the equipment of the National Assembly. Below you can also monitor this presentation on screens and on copies that you have in front of you, unless you can see well the images that are on the screens. If you allow, I would now go through the basic quantitative characteristics of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003. The total planned public-financial revenues of all public finances amount to SIT 2129 billion for 2002 and relate only to the revenues of 11 months due to the harmonisation of the financial and calendar year; for 2003, these revenues amount to SIT 2408 billion, representing 43.3 per cent of gross domestic product. The total public expenditure, as proposed by the State budget and the financial plans, will remain a public treasury for 2002 of SIT 2256 billion and will be nominally 10.9 per cent and, in reality, 4.2 per cent higher than in 2001, which means that their share of the gross domestic product will remain unchanged at the time of its expected growth. The 2002 budget proposal foresees a total revenue of SITin 1220 billion also covers only 11 months as a result of the adjustment. In 2003, the financial and calendar year will re-unify. The total estimated revenue for the 2003 budget is SIT 1420 billion. This year, the share of total revenue in gross domestic product will reach approximately the level of this year. Total budget expenditure under the draft budget in 2002 will amount to SIT 1345 billion, representing 26.5 per cent of GDP. In 2003, the total budget expenditure under the draft budget is estimated to be SIT 1468 billion, representing 26.4 per cent of gross domestic product and, in reality, 3.9 per cent more than the draft budget for 2002. It is worth noting that the total amount of budgetary expenditure for 2002 and 2003 includes all dedicated expenditure, such as donations, own-initiative expenditure, sales-related expenditure and the replacement of real property, and so on. Therefore, expenditure which is consistently linked to revenue and which occurs only if the expected revenue is actually realised. The total government deficit will amount to 12.2 billion in 2002, with a single offset deficit of 1.49% of GDP, which you can see on the blue screen. The current deficit in the financial year 2002 is estimated at 1 per cent, which is less than the estimated deficit in this year. The projected budget deficit for 2003 will be 48 billion. Dear Members and Members, as I have already mentioned, the public finances policy in the coming four-year period is aimed at consolidating fiscal control and location and technical efficiency. The objective is to gradually balance public finances, reduce public debt and the cost of its servicing, so that an important part of budgetary spending can be released for development purposes. In the next period, we have real opportunities to do so, but of course this will be possible only if we simultaneously make the privatisation of enterprises and state-owned banks successful, and of course even if international economic movements are at least roughly similar to those assessed so far. How important it is to achieve these objectives is the data on interest payments costs, which since 1995 increased from 1.1% of gross domestic product to 1.5% in 2000. The debt of the Republic of Slovenia increased from 18.5 per cent in 1994, to 26.2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2001. We estimate that it is possible in the planned fiscal policy and the successful privatisation of the debt and the cost of its financing to reduce. This is how we plan to reduce the government deficit to 1.39 per cent of GDP in 2001, to 0.29 per cent in 2004 and realize the public financial surplus in 2005 by both methodologies, by national methodology and by ESA 95, which we have specifically calculated and presented to you, and is also included in the pre-accession economic programme, which was sent to Brussels at the end of last month. This would mean that the debt at the expected economic growth in 2005 would fall to 15.8 per cent of gross domestic product. The cost of interest payments would be reduced from 6.1 per cent in the overall budget in 2002 to only 3.3 per cent in 2005. In fact, we only have two scenarios that are shown in this picture. The first scenario is a spontaneous option whereby, of course, we do not run a restrictive fiscal policy, by which we do not make privatisation and by which public debt and servicing costs are increasing, by which we have a larger fixed part of our expenditure in the whole budget, or the one that we are proposing with these two budgets, which is a sudden shift in public debt reduction, reduction of servicing costs and release of the developmental part of the budget. The most important budgetary resources, both in 2002 and 2003, will be domestic taxes on goods and services with a 55% share in 2002 and a 59% share in 2003. Domestic taxes on goods and services are the highest value added tax and excise duty represented, totalling around 55 per cent of all budget revenues in 2002 and 54 per cent in 2003. In 2002 and 2003, a reform of direct taxes, notably the corporate income tax, as well as the income tax and the real estate tax, is envisaged. The changes will affect the structure of all government revenues. The share of direct taxes will be reduced, income from income will be reduced, and administrative income taxes will be increased. The projected loss of direct tax resources will be replaced by an increase in indirect taxes, in particular value added tax and excise duties. As before, income in the structure of direct taxes will still be most strongly represented and will reach around 4% compared to gross domestic product. For 2003, a gradual application of the amendments to the Income Act is envisaged. The consequences will be a real reduction in income income, the revenue shortfall will be replaced in 2003 in municipal budgets by an increased transfer from the state budget. The share of income in total will decrease to around 16%. The assessment of corporate income tax assumes that the net business surplus in the enterprise sector will increase slightly faster than the projected gross domestic product growth. The rate of tax and tax relief on the profits of legal persons, and this is of course very important, remain the same as in 2001. The 2003 projection also includes the effects of a new tax law on the income of legal persons, which will implement the amended tax reliefs and redefine the elements of the tax base. The effects of the proposed new law will only work on the revenue of the budget by calculating the tax for 2003 and 2004. The higher income from corporate income tax in 2003 will be mainly due to taxes imposed after deduction for non-residents. On this basis, the projection includes 92 billion projected payments of corporate income taxes. For 2002, the estimate under the pay tax takes into account the change in the tax scale, which has remained unchanged since July 1997 and foresees an increase in employment and wages. The change in the tax scale is envisaged in terms of reducing the real growth of the tax on paid wages, or based on the projected realization of a tax return of 10 per cent in the real time period. This resource provides for revenue of 94 billion in 2002. In the estimated revenue of the State budget, it takes a tax on paid salaries of 7.7%. Even in 2003 the real growth of this tax revenue will continue. As in this year, budget expenditure is designed according to the programme structure, which is reflected in the specific part of the budget, while at the same time the cost structure of all budgetary expenditure is shown at the level of the 3-digit accounts. In terms of expenditure under the programme and functional structure, the largest share of budgetary expenditure in 2002 will be devoted to education; 18.2 per cent of all budgetary expenditure, representing 4.85 per cent of gross domestic product, with an estimate of all public expenditure on education - and this is important and is also shown in this picture for 2002 and 2003 - amounts to 5.72 per cent, which is the largest proportion of these expenditure in the last seven years - in 1995 were those expenditure, for example, 5.42 per cent of gross domestic product - which does not mean, of course, that the planned budget is intended to be optimal in this area, that they are best and that they are developmental. It means that, of course, we are making a huge contribution to this area, that the efforts and determination of the government to support education are large, but we are aware, of course, that the structural problems of this budget are relatively large, that the pressures, in particular wages, within this budget are relatively large, that some fixed costs are very high, and that we have very great difficulties in trying to define as much of this budget as possible as developmental in the area where we are talking about investments, both in buildings, in particular in the equipment and standard of education, and in particular in the services in this area. After the structural share, the second largest budget expenditure will be transfers for pension protection, representing 15.1% of the state budget. Expenditure on social protection is a very important part of public financial expenditure, the share of which will increase to 4.7% of gross domestic product in 2002. In particular, the share of all expenditure on child and family protection, which will amount to 2% of gross domestic product in 2003. A trend towards a real increase in regional development will continue in 2002 and 2003. In the broader definition of these funds - all budget users' financial plans are included in the calculation - it will amount to more than 170 billion tolars for these purposes in 2002. The growth of these funds is projected at a nominal growth rate of 16% and will increase to over 190 billion in 2003, with a growth rate of 12%. However, the share of funds for these purposes will be much higher than 3% of the gross domestic product. In recent years, the share of expenditure resulting from Slovenia's integration into the European Union has increased significantly in the structure of budgetary expenditure. It is expenditure related to European Union grants, own participation of budgetary users and preparation for entry into the European Union. The volume of funds for this purpose was only 5.1 billion tolars in 1998, 25.7 billion tolars in 2001 and 39.3 billion in 2002. This year, the European Union's planned level of donations amounts to 15.3 billion Slovenian tolars. In 2000, such donations amounted to only 4.4 billion dollars, for example. All of this clearly shows that Slovenia has become increasingly part of the European Union in recent years as well in the public financial field. Resources for culture, sport and non-governmental organisations remain within the structure of budgetary expenditure at this year's level. A 1% share of all budgetary expenditure is proposed for healthcare financed from the State budget. For the economy, infrastructure and agriculture, slightly more than 3.3% of gross domestic product or 12.4% of total budget expenditure, in the revenue and expenditure account, and 63% of all expenditure in the financial claims and investments account in the so-called B balance sheet. For transport infrastructure, about 1.7% of gross domestic product is proposed. Environmental programmes, including environmental regulation, are provided with around 0.5% of gross domestic product, which means slightly less than 2% of all budget expenditure. The security area, which includes internal affairs, defence, civil protection, intelligence services and intervention in the event of natural disasters, is allocated 2.5% of gross domestic product, which means 9.5% of all budget expenditure. In this area, some important increases have been made, particularly those related to the Schengen border, the equipping of the police and, of course, some other purposes that are important for the implementation of this Agreement. When talking about the economic structure of government budget expenditure, it is worth stressing that the largest share of budget expenditure is intended for salaries and contributions from employees in state authorities, justice and public institutions. For these purposes, the proposal targets 30.6 per cent of the total budget in 2002 and 30.2 in 2003, representing around 8 per cent of the gross domestic product. In 2002, we are thus achieving the highest share of these expenditure in the last seven years, and we are also stopping the trend of their growth only with the planned relative restrictive policy for 2002 and 2003. In preparing the budget, the government, as the Prime Minister has already said, has deliberately limited the growth of material costs to budgetary users, so that they will fall in real terms in 2002 and will not increase in real terms in the next two years. In the structure of expenditure on economic purposes, investment transfers are significantly increasing, by 20% in 2002 and by almost 35% in 2003, respectively. In doing so, they will increase significantly, which is extremely important, including investment transfers to other level countries, which is undoubtedly an element of promoting regional development. Interest payments on domestic and foreign debt due next year represent 6.1 per cent of budget expenditure. In the structure of all expenditure, we are only able to increase the variable part of the budget more significantly in 2003. It is only this year that the statutory and contractual pre-termisation of the budget falls under the envisaged policies. The so-called fixed budgetary expenditure will thus represent 66.4 per cent next year and 65.4 per cent of all expenditure in 2003, indicating a gradual decline in their share. Thus, the variable share of expenditure increases from 16.3 per cent of the budget in 2003 to 17.4 per cent, increasing the possibility of a greater share of investment and other development expenditure in 2003. The projections of income and expenditure in the pension and disability insurance balance for 2002 as contained in the draft financial plan of the PPIZ for 2002 are based on the global baselines used in the preparation of the budget. The total revenue of SIT 724 billion is planned for 2002 and SIT 789 billion in 2003. The 2002 Financial Plan foresees a reduction in the average number of beneficiaries of farm, military and temporary pensions under existing pension and disability insurance legislation. However, the increase in the number of beneficiaries of old-age pensions is assessed in relation to the legal increase in the age limit and the growth of pension beneficiaries from other countries. The financial plan shall take into account the envisaged valorisation of pensions as established by the methodology adopted on the basis of amendments to the pension law. The total expenditure of the office for 2002 is planned at SIT 724 billion, for 2003 SIT 795 billion. Compared to gross domestic product, in these two years total expenditure on pension and disability insurance will reach 14.3%. The financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2002 provides for a flat-rate balance sheet of current income and expenditure, while for 2003 a surplus of SIT 6.4 billion is foreseen to be allocated to the gradual repayment of pension debt from previous years. Both in 2002 and 2003 the transfer of funds from the capital company to the pension fund is envisaged. The financial plan of the Health Insurance Office for 2002 shall set the financial values of the revenue and expenditure prepared as for the other cashiers. For 2002, the compulsory health insurance balance provides for a total income of 339.4 billion and 370.3 billion in 2003. The total health expenditure is expected to reach 342.6 billion in 2002 and 369.8 billion in 2003. Revenue under the financial plan of the Institute for 2002 will not be sufficient to cover all planned expenditure. The Institute thus plans a deficit of 3.2 billion Slovenian tolars in 2002, while in 2003 it foresees a surplus of 500 million tolars. Due to the acute financial situation in this year's health treasury - around 12 billion deficits are expected - the government is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt an increase in the employers' contribution rates for compulsory health insurance by 0.2% point and for the same percentage also an increase in the contribution rate for pensioners paid by the pensioner. With the increase in the contribution rate, the health treasury would obtain an additional SIT 5.8 billion in 2002. An additional billion is foreseen as a transfer from the state budget to increase excise duty on tobacco products and alcohol, so-called health excise duty. With these additional sources of resources on the one hand, and with the implementation of additional health spending measures, in particular for medicines, certain types of social transfers and restrictive employment policies in public health institutions, the health department would end up with a deficit not exceeding SIT 3.2% in the coming year. In the coming years, we are planning a balanced global balance of municipalities. The total revenue of municipal budgets is expected to be around 5% of gross domestic product in the coming years, and this is also the amount of expenditure. For the financial year 2002, the amount of principals, which serves as the basis for the calculation of supplementary funds to municipalities, is proposed at 79,340 tolars, representing an increase of around 8% compared to 2001. However, for the financial year 2003, the amount of principal amount should be 85.948 tolars. That amount of eligible consumption per capita will also be proposed in the law on the implementation of the budget. Taking into account the calculated amount of eligible expenditure and the estimated own revenue of the municipalities, additional funds will have to be provided to municipalities totalling 34.1 billion tolars in the financial year 2002 and to the municipalities totaling 40.2 billion tolars in 2003. The amount of supplementary funds belonging to the individual congregation was accepted by the government this week and introduced to it by the mayors of the municipalities and the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The draft budget for 2002 and 2003, with given frameworks and fiscal constraints, reflects the priorities and tasks of the Slovenian country today, as well as some structural weaknesses of Slovenian public finances. Our assessment is that we are able to address the weaknesses that, despite uncertainty about global economic growth, we can and must reduce the public debt and the costs of its financing. That we can and can ensure stable and balanced public finances as a prerequisite for further, knowledge, competitiveness and social inclusion, based on the development of Slovenian society, country and economy. The preparation of the 2002 and 2003 draft budgets alone has shown that the decision is legal for two years; that it makes it easier to achieve the objectives set; that it relieves public financial pressures and facilitates the management of development policies. I am confident that in the coming month and a half of the draft budgets we will complement and improve together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much, mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance. This concludes the presentation of the budget memorandum and the proposals for the 2002 and 2003 state budgets. To the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, and to the Minister of Finance, Mag. Anton Rope, thank you for the presentation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's presentation starts with the deadline for making amendments to the draft state budget. Members, Members' groups and working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Monday, 22 October 2001. I repeat, Members, Members' groups and working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Monday, 22 October 2001. I hereby conclude agenda items 1 and 1a. So I suggest that the National Assembly proceed with 2. POINT OF THE DAY, PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION ON STATE ASSISTANCE FOR THE RELEVANT OF DREAM, EQUITE AND NEURY WITH A POINT, AND WOULD, if so, terminate it when we get a document on the table, the material for the treatment of point 1b. But we can also take a short break. We go to the cold and dry, says on a proposal that cures, eliminates consequences - thank you very much. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Minister Digger is with us and I'm asking him to introduce himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The government has tried to respond as quickly as possible to this year's occurrence of natural disasters in agriculture - I am talking about drought - and I hope that today's consideration of the law has also succeeded in following this objective as quickly as possible. This law is different from the previous draft laws that this respected National Assembly has dealt with in recent years, so its preparation has taken us a little longer. This is shown first by the scope of the law itself, secondly, as this is seen, but of course there is also a large number of important comments by the secretariat, because the text, I can say, is quite difficult. The main novelty in this law, if compared with the state's known forms of intervention to address the consequences of natural disasters, is first the distinction between the damage for which it is able to protect itself and the other damage for which it cannot be protected. The damage for which it is possible to protect itself is cold, melting, for example; and these two are included in this proposal for a law. However, the difference is made so that it is possible to obtain 30 per cent of the claimed damage through State resources, through State aid to remedy the consequences of a natural accident, while this percentage is higher in drought, and 40 per cent and 50 per cent of the amount of the claimed damage that an individual beneficiary may receive. Another novelty in this bill is the distinction between damages, pardons, between farmers whose farming is the sole or principal activity and those who have a foreign activity. Those who are solely or principally engaged in farming are expected to pay 50 per cent of the claimed damage under this proposal; those who are responsible for the farming activity have 40 per cent of the claimed damage - if we are talking about the damage caused by the drought. It is the fact that the government has followed the principle that it has tried to distinguish those who have agriculture - or that the damage caused to them by nature means or could be mentioned as an existential threat, and those who have other sources of income are not so much at risk. Well, the next novelty of this law is the distinction between small owners - these are those who have a comparable area under one hectare - and larger owners who do agriculture either as the only or main activity or as a side occupation and of course have properties or work - do not necessarily have to be owners - to process properties that are larger than one hectare of comparable area. The next novelty of this law is the distinction between dry areas. Previously, differences in such laws have been evident by municipal boundaries. This, of course, may have been very unfair in practice, since drought is not based on municipal boundaries, but on some other geomorphological characteristics of soil. This proposal sets out the areas in which the average damage is representative as a geographically rounded area where agricultural land has a similar capacity to hold water, and there is no significant deviation between individual land in the area. Well, these areas are - this is a great novelty of this law or the state administration has faced it for the first time. Similar soil properties for water retention are determined on the basis of the digital pedology map of Slovenia with some essential parameters - these are floor type, depth of soil, soil grain and soil organic material content. In a picture called The ability of the soil to hold water, we call it after a homemade dry map, the distribution of the given in the territory of Slovenia according to the ability to retain water in five classes. The novelty of this law is also a way of sharing resources to address the consequences of natural disasters. Firstly, in view of all the years so far, this aid is to be shared directly with the beneficiaries and not more through the municipalities, as has been the case all previous years. The financial consequences of this law are - I am talking about assessments - roughly the following. According to the data so far, damage to approximately 12.4 billion tolars has been confirmed - I am talking about damage from all three addresses: cold, hail and drought. Well, according to the content of the law, according to the criteria contained in the bill, we estimate that on average 43% of the claimed damage will be paid. This amounts to about 5.5 billion tolars, most of which are expected to be paid in the coming year until the end of April, this is the time of the spring harvest, some of it already this year. These are the funds to be paid in cash from the budget. This needs to be added around, and this is indeed even more about, 2 billion dollars, which is the amount of tax write-offs and contributions, which is an estimate that represents a parallel to last year's drought or last year's natural disasters in agriculture, which have also caused about 2 billion tolls of resources to be paid by the state budget for tax write-offs and contributions. This law, which we are talking about today, is about state aid to the agricultural sector. This is to make it easier for manufacturers to survive the business year. This is not a law, which may have been understood in some debates, which would put the state as an insurance company against natural disasters or weather accidents. This is also not a law to talk about social assistance. Once again, this is a law that speaks of state aid to the agricultural sector. I am pleased that we have reached the proposal of the law after long coordination unanimously in the government, between the individual departments, and that the text of the bill has been able to be coordinated across the board with the agri-agricultural chamber as a representative of the stakeholders. The Government also supports the amendments of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee or the amendment of the parliamentary groups supported by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. I propose to you, honourable Members and Members, that you support the proposal of the law, along with the amendments of the government and the amendments of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u13	Thanks for the introduction. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 4th extraordinary meeting, held on 10 and 11 this month, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and Environment considered a proposal for a State Aid Act to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms in agriculture for 2001 which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a rapid procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Committee also had before us the material of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs, the opinion of the Commission on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council and the amendments of the Government, the DeSUS, LDS, United Lists, SLS + SKD and the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. In the opening presentation, we were briefed by the Minister for the Environment on the need to adopt this law. The secretariat also pointed out in its written material that the law in question was not compatible with the Constitution; in particular, it was the case that all those who lived from agriculture would be entitled to State aid and were in fact the same under the Constitution. Many opinions were expressed as part of the general debate. Let me just say some. The State aid is defined in Article 1 only for direct payments of the budget resources, and no specific aid is provided for the country which is granted by way of tax write-offs and contributions. When the law defines a budgetary obligation for the following year or a specific law, this should also be reflected in the budget as a known obligation and not in the future budget reserve. The law does not determine the amount of funding for the State budget. It is necessary to provide for the cost of the work of the commissions at both levels - there were in particular a lot of comments by representatives of municipalities or Members, who are also mayors at the same time. The system must be consistent and effective and therefore the role of the State and the role of the municipalities in the implementation of the aid to address the consequences of natural disasters must be clearly defined. The law should take account of equality, namely equality in the calculation of cadastral income and equality in the allocation of State aid resources to address the consequences of natural disasters. The consequences of the damage shall be determined at a time when the crops have already been largely disposed of and again raises a specific question of the objectivity of the injury identified It has been pointed out in areas where it is possible to eliminate such accidents by watering and irrigation. It is inappropriate to distinguish those whose agriculture is the only and main activity from those whose activity is only complementary to them. It is not acceptable that State aid is not granted to those who have less than one hectare of total agricultural land. It is also questionable, of course, that the agri-land chamber of Slovenia has been empowered to prepare data on the amount of damage. The second day of the hearing, i.e. 12 this month, i.e. yesterday, the Committee held a debate on the individual amendments tabled. On the basis of this debate and the opinion of the secretariat, the Committee has also drafted its amendments to the individual articles of the proposed law, as follows: The Committee supported the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 15, the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia Group to Article 4, the amendment of the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the DeSUS, LDS, United Lists, SLS + SKD to Article 11. However, he did not support the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia to Articles 3 and 6, 8 and 15. The Committee did not define itself until the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1, since the Committee has adopted its amendment to this Article and thus this amendment of the Government has become irrelevant. Nor has it been defined to the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and of New Slovenia to Article 2, since the withdrawal of this amendment has been announced. The Committee adopted the following amendments, to Article 1, to Article 2, Article 3, Article 5, Article 6, Article 7, Article 8, Article 10, Article 13, to Chapter VIII. and Article 16. The Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Council proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a rapid procedure, together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments supported by the Committee, with a view to remedying the effects of drought, cold and storms in agriculture in 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr Jože Tanko will present the opinion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much for the words and a nice greeting to my colleagues and also to the representatives of the government. In the parliamentary group, we support the rapid adoption of the State aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and stormy storms, as we believe that criteria and entitlements for the payment of damage must be foreseen in a timely manner and that at least partial payments must be made in time to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters and to ensure that funds are provided for the next season. The proposed law offers a completely new concept, a new approach that we have not been accustomed to so far and whose real effects are indeed difficult to predict. But I think it's right to point out some things that somehow show up with this law. For the first time, there is an extremely selective approach to the law, as all areas below a certain minimum area and all amounts below the minimum amount are excluded from the aid. Secondly, the unequal recognition of damage to the same culture among owners who are engaged in the same area of agriculture as the basic activity and those who are the majority owners, who can be referred to as a lover of their own property or who are engaged in agriculture as an additional activity and participate in the preservation of the cultural landscape. That's what you're saying. This is a matter of selective status. And the third selective criteria are also payments because after that, professional farmers or professional operators will receive an advance following this proposal, whereas for those who do not engage in agricultural activities no advance is foreseen this year. We believe that such an approach to the current rural situation is not the best. Tax legislation does not distinguish between professional and non-professional owners of agricultural land and all doses according to the same criteria of cadastral income. Therefore, when filling the budget, they are all the same, whereas when it comes to obtaining State aid, this equality is no longer. In the Group of Members, we will support solutions that ensure access to assistance to all under equal conditions, regardless of status. And we do not agree with what the law provides for the sharing of citizens, and in some ways also violates this constitutional equality. The law also lacks an explanation of what a minimum surface and a minimum amount mean, since there is no comparison under this criterion with last year's. We need to be aware that 30,000 tolls, as far as the lower limit for payment - a possible limit for payment - is actually the monthly pension of farmers' insurers, and thus somehow we take away their 12th. We are also wondering because this is not in the explanation of how much the budget is saved or how much there is under these two criteria, that is, the minimum surface area and the minimum amount, will no longer be eligible for aid. Is this a budget savings only for areas, billions or two billion, and is this an exclusion based on a criterion of 30,000 representing two or 20,000 beneficiaries? We therefore believe that the corrective measures envisaged here are not in line with the results of the changes in our own structure, as we are dominated by small farms with fragmented holdings. And agricultural policy has not yet been dealt with more seriously either with too much fragmentation or too many agricultural landowners or, as a consequence, with small farms. To date, the country has largely understated and has under-declared its support for the comassation process and has also over-exploited the agricultural land and forest fund. We estimate that it is precisely because of what this law has said that it will concentrate all aid on maybe one or maybe some percentage of more farmers, while all others are more or less excluded. While the law follows the course of Europe’s development, the guidelines given in the explanatory memorandum do not apply consistently. It is also unacceptable, in our view, that, as a burdensome circumstance that is "decreasing" damage, unimplemented agri-technical measures are cited. This would make sense if the law were to be adopted for, say, 2002 or 2003. However, it is somewhat embarrassing to prescribe in October what we should do in June of the same year. This law also imposes obligations on municipalities by transferring certain tasks and obligations to them, but the state does not use its apparatus in administrative units. We do not defend our work, although the departments for the economy and agriculture will serve for at least a month both the owners of agricultural land or beneficiaries and the country. We therefore believe that the means to carry out the delegated tasks must be provided for. If we read this law carefully, it is actually a law on state budget savings, not a law on aid to the affected. The huge shortcomings of the law are also, in our view, very flawed compared to the previous laws that dealt with this area or even in the lack of explanation of the financial consequences. Therefore, with considerable certainty, the State's aid will be significantly lower than it was last year. The Group proposes that you support the amendments of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, which would make this law more effective, even more comparable to last year's law, would also allow for a smoother transition and would also allow everyone to have access to assistance at the time of this year's arrests. We agree, however, that a stronger agricultural policy is needed and that it is also necessary for rural people to provide for the measures that this law has pointed to. We also propose that these measures be incorporated into the new law, but only if the agricultural reform is more impactive in particular in the field of concentration of agricultural land and property. I think it would be right to start not as restrictive at this work as we have experience from Europe, to start with a transitional period, to prepare people for possible new consequences and for new measures of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u18	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As explained by the Minister for Environment and Space, this law is a real novelty. And as a novelty as such brings many ambiguities. I could say that the law is confusing and untransparent and that, of course, this law will be possible without any risk, without any statement that not everything needs to be carried out, as the law also states, in fact also to be realized. The biggest disadvantage of this law is essentially that no one can say from this law what the injured can expect and no one can say for sure how much the state budget will be charged by this law. Everything, as the Minister has said, is extremely close, both to the assessment of the damage and to those contributions for which the cash pension and disability insurance should be reduced, as well as to the tax box, according to the taxes paid. This is a fundamental flaw in this law, and in this regard the law also differs significantly from that adopted last year or all those laws adopted under such and similar situations. The law ahead of us is also a major departure from the national programme for the development of Slovenian agriculture. The Minister stressed in particular that this law is not a social issue. However, we have written in the Slovenian National Agricultural Programme that Slovenian agriculture is eco-socially oriented. Why did we write that? Simply because after 50 years of socialism, which has left large wounds in agriculture in particular, the current situation is that the own structure of Slovenian agriculture is weak, that our average farm size is less than five hectares, which means that we are extremely uncompetitive in Europe, that we have a number of farmers who, by farming, create an additional possibility of survival, or, at least in rural areas, in most cases, do some other activity while farming. The largest number of employees is where they receive extremely low personal income. For our environment, I can tell you that many work for 60,000 tolars a month and that, of course, this additional farming means a source of survival. And we rule out many of these by means of this law. Yesterday, I think the Secretary of Agriculture said that if we use only this criterion of one hectare and eliminate all those who have less than one hectare of farmland, this number is about 17,000. I would like to remind you, however, that the application for direct payments has been submitted in Slovenia in about 60 000 beneficiaries this year. When the agri-agricultural chamber was established and a law was adopted concerning the work of the agri-agricultural chamber, the criteria for membership in the amount of the cadastral income were taken into account. It would be fair and fair for such and similar cases to take into account the cadastral income and for all those who pay the tax on agricultural land to be reimbursed after such catastrophic droughts and droughts as in the second year in Slovenia to be entitled. This law does not bring about this; it excludes many from the help needed in one way or another. An essential stranger to this law is what the Minister warns and cites as novelty, namely, that only after the adoption of the law will he issue a directive on the rounding up of some geographically rounded areas and that these geographically rounded areas will constitute the basis for that stranger, who in a somewhat strange and complex formula is called the letter "p", a percentage of the damage is said. Given that this is not part of or part of this law, of course, it is already felt that this "p" can be one or the other and will, of course, have a significant impact on how much the State will contribute to the victims. At this point, I don't know, and I'm guessing what's actually going to come out of this. We are very keen to follow the European Union's example of such and similar solutions, and we want to regulate the situation in our legislation everywhere as it is regulated in the European Union. However, I would like to point out that Slovenia is not yet a member of the European Union and that, in fact, negotiations on agriculture have not even started fairly. It is imperative that, as my predecessor has already said, until the entry into the European Union, everything should be done to increase the competitiveness and size of Slovenian farms and to make our farmers competitive and comparable to farmers in the European Union when they enter. Of course, the current agricultural policy is not difficult, the accumulation in agriculture is almost gone, the depreciation is not, nor is it, and if there are no such funds in agriculture, then we can therefore find that there is no investment in the machinery industry and that the processing industry involved in agriculture is also in some development that is not trained to join the European Union. These are facts at this point, which are also substantiated. What this law brings is, as has already been said, a direct way of paying off. Such a direct way of payment might also make sense if unnecessary bureaucratic approaches were not introduced through law. It is always necessary to keep an eye on this smallness of our farms, this fragmentation; we, through this aspect of the farmers, the beneficiaries, are burdening ourselves. I was told that six or seven completed forms must be added to the application for this aid, and those in several municipalities of land must do so separately in each congregation. I received a call from the owner who said that he had to do so in just four congregations. I'm asking you if that makes sense. Many, because of the futility of such work, as well as from last year’s or this year’s experience, have simply not given up their roles and will not compete for such funds. It may also be the novelty of this law that in this way many people are eliminated in the beginning because they do not want all this paper war and all that, and in the end it will be nothing. The biggest disadvantage of this law, or the plan of this law, is that this year the state does not want to give harm to those affected by this law, because it promises only those who are pure farmers, only those who would be harmed by more than 50%, and only 8% of the estimated damage in the form of an advance. That's how I and our Group of Members understand this law. Although the Ministry's representatives explain otherwise, if this is not the case, they should also write the law in a different way. We, the coalition of Slovenia, are called Nova Slovenija and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, have tabled numerous amendments. With these amendments, we would like to reduce this selectivity factor. We would like the country to help the affected more intensively. Unfortunately, all these amendments on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have been rejected; I think only one has been accepted, which was accidentally in line with the Government's amendment. Thus, there is also a huge lack of adoption of this law by the adoption of such an important agricultural law in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment - I must say this here, whether you like it or not. I think that this is systematically so done, as this matter should certainly be dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture, not that in Slovenia - I do not know what the pattern is - this is dealt with by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, and the majority of these matters are voted by some alternate Members. It is likely that even when the new Rules of Procedure are adopted, this new Rules of Procedure will appear so that without the eyes of the public it will all be burned there. Let me get this straight. Of course, we are all aware that this country lacks financial resources, but we must also be aware of the need to help in certain key matters and that, at the time of entry into the European Union, the preservation of Slovenian agriculture and thus the countryside, as well as the preservation of the cultural identity of the Slovenian people, will be one of the fundamental tasks and will therefore be the most at stake when Slovenia becomes a member of the European Union. So I can conclude that the government on the one hand has money to buy super expensive planes for its needs, while on the other hand it has no money to help the affected by drought and frost. Of course, we cannot agree with such a principle in the opposition, and we would certainly, if we were to form this government, drive these things differently than they look in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a state aid law to remedy the effects of this year's drought and other natural disasters this year. Above all, we will do so in the desire that the victims, however, receive at least immediate compensation for the damage caused, as quickly as possible. In view of the fact that we are witnessing to some, even a series of droughts, colds, floods, and other natural disasters, we cannot really afford this type of surprise every year. Not particularly because the disasters mentioned already tend to be a major economic damage, but because they are even a natural disaster or only a boundary to a particular area. And we can expect such disasters in the years to come. We therefore demand that the government resolve this issue by means of a law that will systematically put an end to this problem and that such a law lays down the conditions for covering such damage in a lasting and long-term manner. Thus, farmers will know in advance about the conditions of farming in the event of a natural disaster. We believe that such an approach is also an important element of a stable economy in the agricultural sector. However, it is also important to consider the possibility that this concern, the current concern of the State itself, is taken by the insurance undertaking, which, together with the farmer, should take such a risk. We also have strong concerns about the provision of the proposed law, which states that contributions to health, pension and disability insurance are written down for the affected in 2001. That rating is not clearly recorded because it does not indicate which budget item will be charged with write-offs. It may be possible that the pension fund would be affected again, which would not be right in the face of sensitive pension problems. However, since the budget reserve is intended for such cases, Official Journal 79/99, this should also be included in the law. In this regard, the proposed amendment also speaks to four coalition groups, which, of course, we will support together with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by Mr Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Liberal Democracy, we have agreed to support the law before us. At the time of the consideration of a similar law by a fellow Member, which had recently been introduced into the procedure, we said that we were advocating for the text, which was already known at the time, for a law which would contain more expertise and also strictness and accuracy, first in determining the damage and then in the allocation of funds. The law, which contains these elements, including those for which we have advocated and proposed already last year and then in the past on the Committee on Agriculture, has built-in and suggestions - when this law has already been presented - which have been on our side, some of them or most of them have been incorporated into the amendments tabled by the Government to this Act. At the same time, some of the concerns and more precise provisions, which were not incorporated into each other, were addressed on the Infrastructure Committee and, of course, the Committee added some of the things that we will support. When it comes to natural disasters that reach the dimension of disasters, we are aware that no law can be the best. However, within the scope of options, this law is one for us that could be appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We are also pleased in the Joint Group of Social Democrats that the law follows the procedure outlined in the procedures initiated by the Government. Finally, this means that in this year we will only catch all the hands that are necessary to truly achieve the mitigation of the consequences in agriculture caused by drought, cold and hailstorms. The title of the law itself says that it is a number of types of damage that can be caused by natural captures in agriculture. Therefore, it is also often very difficult to draw up a law that would give very clear answers to each of these weather impacts. Of course, something is extremely important, and this is that the law will nevertheless try to get closer to those who are truly dependent on agriculture and at least mitigate the consequences for those who do not have a very major activity. In some articles, of course, it would be possible to improve some of the solutions to the individual articles, especially if we are talking only about the operators of the main activity and if some other members of the family or the agricultural economy are still eligible here, and of course we can also do so in a few other attempts, which, if they continue, will also try to anticipate or record these improved solutions. In any event, however, we believe that the law is approaching those solutions that allow for a quick approach and also a planned plan to remedy these consequences - however, this planning must be divided in a way that attempts to be drawn up by each agricultural economy already in the design of its type of farming, as well as later in the enforcement of insurance and, last but not least, by the aid of the State, which is necessary to avoid too much distress in agriculture in the event of a large drop. That is why this law, which is being tabled, we support in the form that it will take, together with the amendments adopted by the government and the committee. All these supplements, we think they're improving the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Because no one else wants Mr Janez Kramberger will present the opinion of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support the government's proposal for a law along with the amendments adopted by the mother's working body. We estimate that this law could already be behind us, so that it could already be adopted, if, as the government had planned, one version to be able to amend the law already proposed in the procedure. We expect that this novelty in this law will not overly complicate the allocation of these funds that agricultural producers should have already received. Our Group of Members will support this. However, we expect that the system law, which is urgently needed to solve these problems, will be adopted as soon as possible and will finally move once from the first reading, that we will not be year after year, every year when we encounter such problems, adopting new intervention laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written applications for the debate - I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. The discussion of possible debaters is therefore limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. I support a selective approach, one of the starting points of this State Aid Act to address the effects of this year's drought, cold and hailstorms. In doing so, I would briefly address only two issues that may only be partly related to the law, but we also have representatives of the State Commission to assess the damage. [[...]] In fact, frankly, there is a lot of dissatisfaction on the ground due to an increased bureaucratic process that is present this year. In particular, form C is unnecessary because it is identical to the grant form for direct aid. On this basis, there is in fact a great deal of discomfort on the ground due to, frankly speaking, unnecessary bureaucratic proceedings. In this regard, the following. Many fear that there may also be new inconsistencies in the input of these data, which the Agricultural Markets Agency has in the database, and that the question may be how long the process of clarifying possible minor errors may be. Secondly, I would actually like a response to Article 11 or an amendment to Article 11. Or Article 11 actually ensures that not only the operators of the agricultural economy, but also their members, who are insured and whose only income is subsistence by agriculture, will also be able to write off their contributions through such a solution. The fact is that those members of agricultural holdings that are exclusively linked to farm income are certainly significantly more affected by this year's drought than those members who in some way also derive income from other sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good-bye. See, this law is passed during the period when the fourth deposit is paid under the 2000 Act or when we are given decisions by municipalities on the amount of the fifth instalment of aid per drought, according to the 2000 Act. That is why I am more concerned about what has changed so radically in our agriculture that, through the legislative proposal prepared by the government or by us on the table, we directly exclude 20 to 25 thousand farmers from the beneficiary circle. These are not my statements, these are the statements made by the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, which they put to my question yesterday. What has changed so dramatically in this agriculture that we have made decisions or are prior to such a drastic intervention to the extent of State aid. Since the adoption of the law in 2000, it has not been more than 12, 13 months. However, since I know that nothing has changed in agriculture in such a short time, I am concerned about the government's attitude towards agriculture and, last but not least, about rural settlement. Look, there's a lot of news in this marriage, as Minister Digač said. But this news is only limited in my deep conviction. One hectare of comparable areas shall be established, meaning that no one who has less than 2 hectares of grassland or 4 hectares of pasture is entitled to the aid. A limitation is being imposed, a 30 % injury threshold is being imposed, which is markedly inconsistent with European regulation, which also allows the implementation of a 20 % threshold for underdeveloped areas. We have not been able to introduce this into this marriage proposal, nor with the amendments, because our amendments, which have gone in this direction, have been rejected. How to explain to people that, at once, they are no longer entitled to some form of State aid, which they receive at this time for the same accident, for the same form of injury, given that it is a single conclusion, including the government's proposal for justification in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, inter alia, that the consequences of natural disasters in agriculture in 2001 can be considered exceptional, if not catastrophic, which must be addressed by a specific law. It is then stated once again how extreme and catastrophic the consequences of natural disasters in 2001 and, at the same time, in the same proposal, we put a threshold of 25 000, to say the least, of the beneficiaries so far, of the state aid recipients for the same form of accident, we simply exclude. Listen up! This is simply incomprehensible. We have ruled out those poor, those poor people who are 30 thousand tolars, which we have set as a threshold for the lowest form of financial assistance, means half of their personal income, because mostly these poor people live there and in those areas where the average wage in municipalities is also 50-60% on average in the Republic of Slovenia. We've ruled out the poorest parts that make sure we don't get infected, I won't say anything, Haloze, the Cossack Hill or anything else. We have ruled out all that seems to me to be in sharp conflict with or inconsistent with the so-proclaimed rural conservation policy expressed in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Because no one wants another word. I'm sorry, sir. [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 12.10.2001. Today, we have also received the amendment of Mr Gerencher's MEP to Article 5. I am putting to the debate 1st Article and 3 amendments to Article 1. Under order number one, the amendment of the parent working body, with a note, if adopted, shall become the amendment of the Government under order number two to the same Article without reference. Under order number three, there is also an amendment of the parent’s working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; thus, the amendment under order number 2 has become irrelevant. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the three amendments to Article 2. The amendment proposed by order number 1 is the working body of the mother, and the working body of the proposed amendment is under order number 2 and under order number 3 is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Since the withdrawal of the amendment is announced, I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups whether this amendment or the National Assembly are withdrawing and deciding on it? You're withdrawing. Thank you very much. The amendment under order number 3 has been withdrawn. We decide on amendments under number 1 and 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and on the three amendments to Article 3. Under order number 1, the amendment of two members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, with a note, if adopted, becomes an amendment of the Government under order number 3, irrelevant, under order number 2, is an amendment of the parent working body and under 3, as I have already said, an amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to explain the first amendment to Article 3. It seems to us that this amendment is essential in this law. In the first paragraph, we propose that the "budget reserve" be replaced by the word "budget". This is because if we adopt an intervention law and after this intervention law we are determined that part of the funds due to the effects of drought, cold and storms will be paid in 2002 so that these funds should then be planned for the next year under the budget rather than transferred or saved into the budget reserve. The budget reserve could, of course, if it were further known that the second year of the budget reserve would serve nothing but what we are accepting this year. This seems unacceptable to us and therefore we propose that instead of the budget reserve, it be written that these funds are provided in the budget. In accordance with the first paragraph, paragraph 3 of this Article shall also apply. In the second paragraph, we propose that 8 percent be replaced by 50 percent. This is proposed because 8 per cent of the assets are confirmed and verified damage is extremely low. It's already a second drought in a row. As we know, the victims have not yet received all the funds they were promised for last year. It is a drought that has affected areas that are otherwise demographically threatened. Agriculture in these areas is one of the foundations of the economy and if we do not help farmers immediately and to a greater extent, then the stock of livestock will shrink and the effects of this drought will be longer than it would have been. If you are looking at the reports of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, which are also published in the newspaper Kmečki voice, I do not know how many Members in this Parliament are interested in the village voice at all, but you can see that the purchase of livestock has increased significantly in July and August. This, of course, will continue. The worst part is that farmers and also semi-farms, I mean not only pure farmers, but also others, sell or reduce livestock stocks. Then we also propose to add a new fifth and a new sixth paragraph to the 2002 budget, that certain funds be allocated to cover the costs of municipalities, that is to say to local communities, for that work which we are transferring to municipalities under this law if it is finally adopted, and I have no doubt that it will not be adopted, because if a country transfers certain tasks to local communities, it must also provide certain funds to them accordingly. We also propose that those municipalities that, due to drought, had expenditure on water supply in order to spend some money in the 2002 budget to cover these costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number three. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment to this article, whose proposer are two parliamentary groups: New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 5 and on the three amendments to this Article. We have an amendment under one and under order number two in our review. The proposer is both the mother's working body. After the amendment under order number one, we will place the amendment you received today on the bench, the amendment to Article 5 of Andre Gerencher, which is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First on the amendment in the review under order number one. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We will now vote on the amendment of Ambassador Gerencher Andrej, who is of editorial nature. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the five amendments to this Article. The amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the order number of two members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party, under the three parent working bodies, under the four members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party and under the order number five of the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups, in Article 6, we propose that the first paragraph of paragraph 3 should read as follows: "the average market price of agricultural plants in 2000" to release from this paragraph the part of the sentence that speaks, "which reduces the risks of all non-executed agri-technical measures". [[...]] We propose that this part of this Article be deleted, as the agri-technical measures in this law are not defined anywhere. It's not clearly written anywhere. What's that supposed to mean? Similarly, we propose that this concept of agri-technical measures be deleted from paragraph 5 as well. For we believe that the legislator should introduce into the law and foresee what agri-technical measures are, otherwise it is possible to interpret them in different ways. In the fourth paragraph, we propose a different solution than the government has proposed, namely, in the principle of equality before the law, I must say that there has been a lot of talk at the home labour body in the general debate about this, that the Secretariat of the National Assembly has also warned about equality before the law, but the government has not responded to all these comments, so we proposed an amendment in Article 4, which is that 50 % of the claimed damage due to the effects of the drought would have compensated all the injured. They say you're half-breeding as well as pure farmers. Those who are pensioned health and disabled are then written off part of their contributions on that line. In paragraph 6, we propose that 30% be replaced by 20%. All those who have suffered more than 20% and not more than 30, as proposed by the government, should be excused until the work is recovered. This is also possible in line with the European Union guidelines, as the European Union guidelines speak when it comes to less geographically developed areas, so that it can then be a criterion for the payment of damages of 20 % and not 30%. Since in our case it is mostly demographically endangered areas - the damage this year was the largest in the Prekmur region, then the Lower Podrav, the Dolenjska and Primorska - we therefore propose to replace 30% with 20. In paragraph 7, our proposal is to replace the criterion of one hectare of 30 acres. This would therefore significantly reduce this selectivity. A similar amendment under number 5 proposed a parent working body proposing in its division the adequacy of the amount of surfaces, but we fear that such an amendment will once again encourage beneficiaries to carry some kind of certificate for which the surfaces are actually covered and that this will constitute an additional bureaucratic measure. But you, in the great coalition, are always working for an anti-biocratic programme, and in this respect, such and similar laws should also be regulated. That is why we think that the solution to our amendment is significantly better than the one proposed by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 59 votes against one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 36. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 4 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. We also decide on the amendment under 5. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 42, against 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The agreement was that when you get a proposal for a declaration, we will continue to deal with it. I'm adjourning session in 10 minutes. At 13:00 and 10 minutes, we continue to consider the proposal for a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before continuing to address item 1B of the agenda, allow for the following notification. When we are finished with Point 1B, we will also complete the suspension of the proposal for a state aid law to remedy the effects of the drought. Before we move to 1B point, we'll be able to determine the presence. Please press the quorum key. We're picking up the presence! I think there's more of us in the hall than the screen shows. We'll be able to determine the presence next time. We're detecting a presence. There are 46 Members and Members present, the National Assembly is closed and may decide. We are therefore moving on to the 1st B POINT OF THE DAY RED - DEFENDING THE PROPOSAL OF A DECLARATION ON THE COMMON FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first signed by Borut Pahor. Do the proponents want a word? Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will be defined to be one of the most important processes in the international community at the beginning of this millennium, which, thus, all appears to be a lasting period in this modern international community. This will also define itself until the role of Slovenia in it. Here we represent people, and we know that this issue concerns not only certain groups, some interested public, but all of us. People are discussing this vividly and trying to figure out what the future holds. Why? Because it is a matter of security, human security, property, security of our country and, of course, the security of all the world we belong to. We therefore need to identify ourselves on this important issue. The Group of Members therefore submitted today, after a good debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, to the National Assembly for reflection, decision-making and adoption of a declaration on a joint fight against terrorism. Its main message is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia realizes that on 11 September this year, not only innocent victims were attacked in New York and Washington, but were brutally attacked by the values and orientations of that part of the world to which we belong. And it is right that we, together with this world, stand up for three values and fight terrorism. I think that this is a document of special importance with which the National Assembly and our country determine their identity at this very important time of changing the international community. That's all I have to say at the end. None of us, including those who have more power and influence in the international community, can say for sure how these changes will go forward, that they will be very dynamic, that they may also be unpredictable, is clear. However, it is important for Slovenia to understand these international circumstances, to cooperate with the world to which it belongs, in activities to ensure the peace and prosperity of the people we represent, and to agree, after these changes, which we will witness and may stop the world a little more for a certain time in our stability and peace, in a group of those countries with which we want to create very actively development. I think that this declaration, with its message, responds to this challenge that we are facing and I call on the National Assembly to discuss it and also with great support to decide it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a declaration. Chairman of the board, Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 16th extraordinary closed meeting, held today, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy addressed the proposal for a declaration on a joint fight against terrorism. The President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, who also proposed the original text of the declaration, initially held that it was good for the National Assembly to accept the proposal for a declaration, since the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contained all the communications that the Republic of Slovenia should communicate to the international public and the local communities. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar, said that the amendments tabled by the Republic of Slovenia to the said declaration were mainly editorial in nature; otherwise, he supported the acceptance of the declaration. The members of the Committee agreed in the debate that a declaration on a joint fight against terrorism should be adopted as soon as possible. However, they expressed concern about the fact that some Slovenian media interpret the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the international community against terrorism in an unacceptable way. The Committee then adopted the following amendments. Amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 2. In the last sentence of the delegation of the sentence referred to in Article 7, a comma is inserted instead of a dot and a new text is added: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls on it to submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court this year. Explanation: According to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the International Criminal Court is an institution which must receive the widest international support and play a key role in addressing terrorist acts. In Slovenia, according to experts, there are no legal obstacles to the accession or ratification of the Rome Statute, so it is right for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this year for ratification of the Statute. In the first sentence, the word "active" is added after the word "powers". This amendment is editorial in nature, it is an amendment to Article 3. The following sentence is added after the first sentence: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to join the actions of the European Union and NATO in a joint fight against terrorism." With the proposed amendment, we wanted to clarify the content of this third point of the declaration more clearly. First, we have an amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 4: The basic text of the proposal for a declaration shall be inserted between the first and second sentences without the word "justifiable". Explanation: The amendment expresses greater concern for the protection of the innocent population when implementing measures taken by the international community against terrorists. Article 6: The text of the article is amended as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will actively participate in the efforts of the international community to change the social, economic and political circumstances that promote terrorism in the long term." The Committee also identified the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7. The Committee did not support the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 4. After the discussion, the Committee considered that the amendments adopted had changed almost the entire text of the proposal for a declaration tabled by the President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor. We have therefore agreed, in agreement with drafter Borut Pahor, that this proposal of its declaration will withdraw from the procedure in the National Assembly and that the members of the Committee will submit a new declaration, a record which will take into account all the amendments adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Foreign Policy. The members of the Committee also considered that the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 5, which they had supported at the meeting, was not appropriate and therefore agreed that they would take into account the original wording of the text in the text of the new declaration, which would also include an indication of the amendment. The members of the Committee then supported the proposal for a declaration on the joint fight against terrorism to be tabled in the national assembly procedure and invited the National Assembly to consider it at its meeting and to adopt it. The rapporteur for the National Assembly will be the chairman of the Committee, Jelko Kacin. Since this is a closed session, allow me to make two more assessments. The whole discussion and text completion took place in an extremely constructive and creative atmosphere and all the conclusions were voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Does the representative or representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me say a few words about the declaration. This declaration defines Slovenia's participation in the anti-terrorist coalition. Look. The city of Slovenia is in the company of the Member States of the European Union and NATO. Such decisions have already been taken by the National Assembly, such as the majority opinion in Slovenia, this attitude means security, prosperity, democracy, the protection of the values and standard of living that are established in Slovenia. Different directions would certainly mean a change to the worse. Of course, we cannot always be satisfied with the European Union and with Nate. The enlargement processes are taking place too slowly. That's what we always say. However, in this case we cannot stand by; it is not possible to be neutral; each side could consider us opponents if we could afford it. Above all, in the event of our indecisiveness, terrorists would think that Slovenia is a soft point for us to be safe. The global problems associated with the September 11 event in New York and Washington are difficult. They are also related to some other problems that did not happen on September 11th but have happened earlier. In some ways, this is also the case with globalisation. You know this confrontation isn't easy because it's difficult. Even for Slovenia and for the new countries in Central and Eastern Europe, this confrontation is difficult only for those who are less developed. The solution to problems is serious work, unfortunately, there is no magic recipe here. Terrorism is taking on the problems of globalisation - I would like to stress this in particular - as an excuse. Terrorists are attacking Euro-Atlantic connections, but today the front against terrorism is wider: it includes Russia, it includes China, it includes many Arab and Islamic countries. Terrorism is about fanaticism, it is about racism, it is about simplifying ideology, it is about intolerance, which we remember from World War II, and it's about part of the Balkan wars. We have to condemn this and take the right side. It is clear, however, that there will be a need to rethink the problems of underdevelopment that create a favourable soil for the development of all possible fanaticism and terrorism. Slovenia must take part in this reflection and assist in the development of this world. The international fight against terrorism is not a classic military coalition, but rather a close coordination of international and internal measures by countries to prevent terrorism. These are measures in the political, military, financial, legislative, legal, police, administrative and other fields. The text of the declaration mentions some of the texts of the resolution of the United Nations and of the European Union, and this is what these resolutions or programme texts mean. For example, the resolution on the Organisation of the United Nations 1373 is speaking directly of the financial aspects of the prevention of terrorism. The second, mentioned here, generally calls for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Right now, we could talk about the military and the political coalition. We see the purpose of the military coalition so much every day on television and it's military intervention in Afghanistan. The political coalition, however, represents a long-term form of coordination between the international community and the fight against terrorism. When Slovenia joins, I think, with this declaration to this political coalition, I think it has in mind - at least that is how we understood the text in the government - especially such a form of coordination of measures in the international community. As far as our country is concerned, on 11 September we made clear our solidarity with the United States of America and the NATO alliance and with the international action against terrorism. We are aware and aware that this fight has become an integral part of the modern world, of international activities and of our activities. We are aware that the key to the definitive elimination of terrorism does not lie in military activities, but it is necessary to resolve many open issues of the modern world, crisis hotspots, tensions and major differences in the world. At the time of the American - British campaign, humanitarian action is also taking place, a very rare and unique case in history. The Republic of Slovenia will contribute its share to this humanitarian action through the Red Cross. It seems particularly important to me to emphasise, and this declaration correctly assesses that the current conflict is not a conflict with religion, with Islam, but a conflict with terrorists who are against the peaceful, anti-violent resolution of conflicts around the world. The Republic of Slovenia acts in and after this declaration in solidarity with the foundations of the anti-terrorist coalition formed after the 11 September terrorist attack within the framework of the European Union, the UN and NATO. On 3 October 2001, the Republic of Slovenia was informed of evidence of the links between Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaida with the terrorist attack. The coalition's response to our judgment, as far as we were aware of these materials, is fair. It's actually about [[...]] [[Aborted.]] It's a campaign against terrorism on our part. [[...]] As regards the activities of the Republic of Slovenia, some of you know, some mention the declaration explicitly. It is a matter of increased attention at borders, exchange of intelligence, security measures in the financial field, diplomatic and other means, with general solidarity with the victims of terrorism. Finally, I would like to say that the government has discussed the draft declaration. She was proposing amendments. The Committee on Foreign Policy has taken almost full account of the amendments. I can therefore say that the Government supports the resolution proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jelko Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u44	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! A few days ago, my colleague Brejc and I returned from the United States, where we were invited to the State Department. We visited five American countries and saw the consequences of this terrorist act. When anyone asks me what it's like in America, I say to each of us first, "as it would have been with us if we'd had had this experience with us; if we had thousands of dead, we would have been very hurt." But there is another comparison that I think is appropriate. Ten years ago, we were at war, and we were very, very united. Now the Americans are very, very united. What I think needs to be said on this occasion is the problem of dealing with terrorism, because we cannot answer the question of what terrorism is. This is about the definition of terrorism. Brejec and I also asked about it in the United States, and they helped us with the documents they had at their disposal. And the Americans have also found that they can't say what terrorism is and that their definition so far doesn't fit. So I'd like to give you a few words about this. International terrorism has so far been defined in America as terrorism involving and affecting civilians and property in more than one country. Terrorism was generally defined as political violence, a politically motivated violence perpetrated against non-military targets or victims by extreme subterranean groups or undercover agents. The terrorist group has been identified as a group that carries out or has underground groups or cells that carry out terrorist actions. The lack of all these traditional definitions, however, is their focus on groups or group members, and they have overlooked or omitted individuals who are not organized into groups or cells. This individualism is growing strongly, it is becoming more common and more visible. However, the next possible weakness or weakness of definitions in the current use is the traditional definition of criteria of violence. Analysts now point out that the use of computer viruses for sabotage purposes suggests the possibility that future terrorist actions could be carried out with far more sophisticated forms of destruction and blackmail, such as the destruction of a country's base database by hacking into computer software; such threats also exist. After last year's attack on the American destroyer and this year's attack on the Pentagon, there is also a question of the appropriateness of the American definition, which limits terrorism only to civilian objectives. It has now been shown that terrorists can also attack military vessels in civilian ports, shipyards and defence ministries, where both civilian and military personnel are employed. And in recent days, we can follow the horror of understanding that terrorism can also happen through means of mass destruction using chemical and biological weapons. However, the common definition of terrorism so far is the politically defined and conditional behaviour of the perpetrators. Such definitions do not include violence for the sake of financial gain or religious motives. However, as international criminal organisations and associations are growing rapidly and their effectiveness is increasing, at the same time a great threat to the use of their violence in one way or another, the threat of international terrorism in order to achieve financial effects with it is also increasing. Although it is most often seen that terrorists are politically motivated, some terrorists tend to pursue other tendencies. The number of such acts can be increased by the expansion of these international criminal associations, as well as by the increase in extreme terrorist acts for religious or possibly cultural reasons. A more comprehensive definition will need to focus not only on the sharing of terrorist acts, but the reasons will be increasingly important. International terrorism does not know or recognise state borders when it comes to the crime scene or when it comes to the nationality or belonging of the victims. At the last attack, 77 countries counted their victims. However, the Republic of Slovenia was not among them by chance alone. International terrorism does not distinguish between young and old, between black and white, Christians and Muslims, between men and women, between soldiers and civilians. International terrorism is universal and global in its brutality. The condemnation of such terrorism alone is not enough, preventive and curative measures are needed. This is why the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the declaration on the one hand and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the other hand in an effort to effectively combat and eliminate international terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Finally, the National Assembly faces a declaration on the subject to which virtually all parliaments of democratic countries in the world have been identified in the last month. We are very pleased that there has been a harmonised text that we could all sign at the meeting of the Committee on International Relations, that this text is in our opinion good, that it reflects what we believe the National Assembly must say in such cases, and that it seems good for us to be, let us say, a well-coordinated view of the problem we are facing. We are particularly pleased, as the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, that the Committee on Foreign Policy has unanimously supported our amendment to the text, which speaks of the State Assembly calling on the government to join all the actions of the European Union and NATO in the fight against international terrorism. We are also pleased that there are also some concrete commitments in the declaration, with which we commit ourselves and the Government to finally bring about the submission and decision-making of the ratifications that speak of the fight against terrorism, and we have not yet ratified them. We are particularly pleased that we have also committed ourselves to finally ratifying the statute of an international criminal court, which is dragging too long. These are good things, but they're bad. And, unfortunately, I think there is something to be said about avoiding complications or similar complications in the future. I've already mentioned one, and it's too late. I am almost sure, although I have not checked that the Slovenian Parliament or our National Assembly is the last in Europe to identify this issue, it is certainly only the last of the parliaments, the European Union, NATO or candidates for both institutions. I think that the Council of Europe, or that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we are full-fledged members, discussed this a week ago, or ten days ago, and also adopted a resolution. Our delegation decided there without the State Assembly taking any position before, except for its condolences; nor any working body to that effect, I do not think it has adopted any substantive decisions. Even our national world has outrun us, which very rarely happens, but this time it has happened, and this is not an honor. Of course, it is not only about who will be first, why something will happen sooner or later, but it is about the substantive reasons why it would be good for this meeting to be essential earlier. We've proposed it several times, and it's been a four-pronged case. The fact is that terrorism, especially if carried out to such an extent as it did on 11 September, does not only endanger human life, international terrorism in particular, not human life in a country, but also threatens fundamental human rights and democracy. The identification of the victims in New York has not yet been made, and we also have no assurance that our citizens are not among the victims who will still be identified, if they are all at all. This is quite possible, despite the fact that, according to the data so far, thank God, that is not the case. But it could be; the world is global, we all travel, and so are we who are in this Chamber, and probably only luckily there has not been any citizen of this country on one of these planes or at the World Trade Center. If this happens anywhere in Europe, there is no need for any particular place in Slovenia to be the victim of such an attack, it will be difficult to identify, as it is now, that our citizens were not there. The conclusions that some have drawn from this fact, czech, thank God that Slovenia is not yet in NATO, or that terrorists would also threaten us, etc., are very much below every level of logical thinking. Wherever in Europe the set can take place, even anywhere in the world, practically in more transport cities, our citizens can be as tourists, businessmen, Members everywhere. Such isolation, of course, is no defense. And since isolation is not a defence against the threat posed by international terrorism, it is, of course, necessary to behave differently from that of the last month. I think that the position of the National Assembly on such a problem as we now define in this resolution is necessary after the constitution. It is already our responsibility and our duty to define ourselves through the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that, to such problems of a broader dimension, the National Assembly is defined by declarations or resolutions. The position of the National Assembly is important because of the international public. Kacin’s earlier talk was about how they are vulnerable to support or non-support in the United States. We all read records, including in Slovenian media, including some American citizens, who read everything else to the Slovenes, or attributed everything else to solidarity. To a large extent, she was right, at least according to what could be read in our media. We can also remember, this was said earlier, how sensitive we were to expressions of support or non-support 10 years ago. When someone gets hurt at the time, remember more. Friends in the world that we are likely to count on in the future, if the country's basic foreign policy orientations also endure this test, are very sensitive at this point. With such delays, we probably do not contribute to raising some good political capital. Of course, this seems most important to me, an institution's timely position, such as that of a national parliament, on the issue to which we now identify ourselves in this declaration, is also important for the public at home. Slovenian voters will be those who are likely to finally decide on Slovenia's membership in the European Union and also in NATO. In the last four weeks this Slovenian public, these Slovenian voters were not exactly served by positions that would have gone in the direction of these basic Slovenian foreign political definitions. This is also shown by many public surveys. The fact is that when it comes to media outlets and comments, it is said that absolute criticism is needed here even when it comes to events like what we are now witnessing in Afghanistan. However, there is also a need for professionalism. I am almost firmly convinced that if the institutions of the Slovenian State had reacted a little earlier, even if this national assembly had responded to the fact that the confusion would have been less, but also very one-sided and unprofessional reporting and commenting on these events. Just look at the bearable themes of the central Slovenian journals in the last four weeks, cartoons in these journals, oral reports by the Slovenian TV reporter from Washington, who not only say nothing but are sometimes offensive. Most of the contributions to Radio Slovenia, which sometimes looks like a radio program of the Taliban in Slovenia, where it relativises the reports of one party, in the contemporary of America, and as a dry truth sells what the Kabul or Kabul government likes. Especially in the last days, of course, when this page is being exaggerated by a report on the number of victims, which of course is happening in every war. But the one who reports about it has to sift the testicles. If we are lucky that many of us who are also on official duty to monitor what is happening to us in Slovenia, I am thinking about the diplomacy of foreign countries, mostly do not speak Slovenian. If you were to monitor everything that is going on here in the national media, then I don't know if Slovenia would be in addition to the fourth or fifth enlargement of NATO, let alone the second enlargement. However, as I said earlier, the institutions of this country are to a large extent to blame. And unfortunately, I have to say, this national council, too, because he reacted very late. Very late. She just didn't apologize for that. However, we can now say, the end of the good, all good, we have come to the text of a resolution that is coherent, which is of substantive quality and which does not contain only a few empty phrases, but also contains some definitions that can actually contribute to Slovenia's more effective participation in the international fight against terrorism. So that's good on that salary. Of course, this delay is not excusable. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, I appeal to all those who run this institution to be more sensitive for the second time. In particular, I must also say this because I was personally promised that the National Assembly would adopt its views on this issue at a meeting which then turned into a very sad meeting. I don't know why, but first it was said that this would not only be a sad session, but that it would also be a substantive session. That would be the right time to react. Both government institutions and the services of this National Assembly are likely to be able to write one text overnight, in which it would write something like that now. This is a quality definition, but unfortunately it's very late. The Group of the Social Democratic Party will support and expect the institutions referred to therein from the institutions of the Slovenian State to comply with this declaration in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, Aurelio Juri will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u48	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would not short-circuit the time, given the unity we have already achieved in the Committee on Foreign Policy and also the foretold support for the text before us. The United List of Social Democrats, of course, supports the text and the communication of the declaration, which it has also drawn up, because it follows the need for the time we live in; because it follows the recommendations of the Council of Europe contained in the resolution adopted two weeks ago by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; because it stresses the determination of our countries to participate in the global fight against terrorism and to do so in accordance with the principles, regulations, United Nations Charters; and because it calls for increased concern by the international community and, in particular, the developed world for the needs of the most affected populations after humanitarian assistance and for the elimination of political, economic and social reasons that contribute to the promotion of terrorism. Therefore, the text is therefore worthy of our common support and we hope, of course, that it will also show the role of Slovenia in the international space as it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u50	Your Honors are here! In every way, terrorism is something that should not be, it should not be in today's and in today's field, that is, in our earthly realm. In every way, this phenomenon represents what we all try to avoid or prevent. It is also right that Slovenia should also define whether this is in such form or in other forms. It is time for this world to improve, it is time for Slovenia to join in actively. However, this document does not constitute a solution either individually or within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. It would make sense to ask how this same State Assembly, the Republic of Slovenia, would behave if this terrorist attack did not take place in the United States of America. In all likelihood, given the duality of our government, such activity or activity would not have been seen if it had happened elsewhere. It seems to us that once we stop this farce of humble approach to various military institutions, in relation to the so-called "great brother", the United States of America, who obviously are ready to follow everywhere and whenever. It would make sense that, in particular in this declaration, if this reflects the will of Slovenia or the political life of the Republic of Slovenia, in the introductory part of the text of the declaration, release or amend the third paragraph, which reads as follows: "A decisively condemning terrorist attack on New York and Washington 11. of September." International terrorism, wherever it takes place, is worthy of conviction. Let us not be so double - minded and expose ourselves to individual places. Let us write in this declaration that Slovenia actually condemns all kinds of terrorism anywhere in the world. Terrorism is not the way to resolve disputes, as it is obvious, for example, the Slovenian government recognises when it highlights the importance of terrorism or the level of the negative image of terrorism, according to the place where it takes place. Consider a change in the form that Slovenia opposes terrorism everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Parties will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS + SKD Group of Members - Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a declaration signed by the President first, followed by all the members of the Foreign Policy Committee present today. It is true that there were some complications, some of our typical problems, when we formulated the text of this declaration. We ourselves believe that the President of the National Assembly, with his basic text, has given a good basis, and when we are done with it, we have found, in accordance with our procedure today, a consensus on the Committee on Foreign Policy, with the help of the Government, in our opinion, a good text. Shortly after the tragic events in New York and Washington, the National Assembly held a sad session, at which the president of the National Assembly, with his performance, expressed his views on the event. Perhaps it is not enough to know that our colleagues in the state world, who sometimes act without great public renunciation, adopted a good resolution a week ago - this is a resolution of the State Council in the face of terrorist attacks on the United States. Today's declaration is only an upgrade to this resolution of the State Council. There are four reasons why we will particularly support the declaration. The first is in the first chapter, which says that there is no excuse for terrorism - a clear sentence, with a clear word. It is understandable, however, that in the preamble to such a declaration, an event which directly triggered such a declaration was a terrorist attack on New York and Washington; and it is correct that we have clearly written there to condemn this attack. Then the declaration itself speaks of condemning terrorism anywhere in the world. The second argument is II, here are the normative levels, these are the UN declarations, the Council of Europe and the binding decisions of the Government and the National Assembly on these acts. In our opinion, the third section is crucial, and here I would like to highlight in particular the clear word of Minister Rupl here today and also the amendment they have proposed and today the unanimous decision that we are clear and unequivocal. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expresses our country's readiness to actively, the emphasis is on the word actively, participates in the anti-terrorist coalition. And then the last sentence. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to join, focus on the text of accession, the actions of the European Union and NATO in the joint fight against terrorism. Such clear words must be adopted by the national assembly and today they will be accepted in this declaration. And then the emphasis in IV, and here we also stress the importance of humanitarian, humanitarian problems. Our Group of Members will support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Today it is a month and a day since the terrible and tragic event in the United States, which has shaken the whole world and also Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia we support the proposal for a declaration, because we believe that this has resulted in the values of democracy, both global and our own, being attacked in the most brutal and bloody way. However, since it requires a clear response, this response is given in the declaration on a joint fight against terrorism. It is extremely important that our country's position be drawn up and confirmed at Parliament level, as we are also formally joining a group of countries that are firmly committed to combating terrorism by adopting this declaration. The consequences of this fight concern every citizen and citizen of our country. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that this declaration does not give free deadlines to the executive branch and to certain state institutions in order to make use of this situation in order to limit the democratic rights and freedoms of Slovenian citizens and citizens, possibly uncontrolled and inconsistent with the current Slovenian legislation. We therefore expect the government and all the competent institutions to inform the Slovenian public openly and comprehensively about all important activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to make it clear and clear that we support this declaration with all determination and, above all, we welcome the fact that it has taken place in the first place. All our colleagues know that we have already stood up for such an attitude weeks ago. We found it unacceptable that in this world Slovenia would try for such or other reasons to play some non-classification, which is completely impossible and unacceptable in today's situation. We therefore welcome the fact that in our colleges and internal working bodies to common positions, statues once and for all also present to not only to the world public, who looked with admiration at the fact that Slovenia was nowhere to be found, in such a case, in the way that we have done here today, but also to the Slovenian public, that this national assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have finally taken a stand and are determined in this new situation that has developed in our world since 11 September. However, I would also like to point out that we welcome the fact that, although we condemn what happened in New York and Washington on 11 September, there is no doubt that this National Assembly accepts the declaration that it condemns all terrorism and that there is no excuse for it anywhere in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. I now give the text to Members and Members of Parliament. Roman Jakič signed up for the debate in writing. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable colleagues, colleagues, ministers. I, too, must say that I am pleased that this national assembly is, before deciding on a joint declaration that, like the democratic world, will condemn terrorism and, of course, indirectly, the terrorist event itself that has marked and will mark the future event in this world. I wanted to inform my colleagues or in some way present to them how the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is actually 14 days I must say that I and Aurelio Juri, who were the only ones who participated in an active discussion, both at the political committee and at the plenary session itself, would probably be much easier to discuss if this State Assembly had discussed this subject before. [[...]] But despite all the assurance that the activity of the two - unfortunately the other members were not - in Strasbourg, it went in a direction that is also enshrined in today's declaration, and, above all, it actively supported both the resolution and the recommendation of the Ministerial Council. The common position in Strasbourg was that terrorism violated fundamental human rights and, of course, the terrorist act itself violated the right to life. The Parliamentary Assembly has adopted most of what we have also written here or what we think should be done. It is said that appropriate measures are being taken against those who offer protection and financial assistance to terrorists to verify national legislation and be supplemented by mechanisms to prevent terrorism, to renounce all reservations to conventions relating to terrorism and to allow access to bank accounts of competent authorities for the investigation of links between these accounts and terrorists. In view of the fact that today, too, there has been a little discussion from the frameworks that have been written down, I must say that the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has, in particular, revolved around the definition of terrorism. It was found that whether it is appropriate or not, that the position of 'out-out', the position 'you are with us or against us' is not a good position and, of course, in some way interferes with the right to freedom of speech and thus today's reference to the right to journalistic reporting. Let it be clear, of course, that I am one of those who am 150% for Slovenia to join NATO, and I am one of those who also support what is written in this declaration that we must join the activities of the European Union and NATO. However, once again, I believe that because of one event we must not interfere with some of the rights acquired, which are also enshrined in all conventions and resolutions, both the United Nations and the Council of Europe, and this is the right to freedom of speech. What made me most happy this morning on this one, I must say and confirm the words of the speakers, in this positive climate of the declaration on the Foreign Policy Committee, was also the fact that my colleagues have voluntarily accepted my supplement, which also comes not only from the Council of Europe resolution, but also from my unheard-of initiatives that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this year in the process of ratifying the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. I think that this is good for a simple reason, because if we do this - of course, we have stressed that we agree to extend the powers of the future international criminal court - so that we can also deal with terrorist acts, I think this is a concrete step. As is a concrete step - unfortunately we have not written it here, but I understand it - that we are going to ratify various conventions as soon as possible, so that we will ratify this year's international convention on the prevention of terrorist financing. The assurances given by government representatives today confirm this. Of course, I hope that this Council of Europe resolution will commit all, not only 43 members of the Council of Europe, to the realization of all the above-mentioned indents, and that others, including the United States of America, will begin to think that America or the Congress will ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court so that we can do so together, of course. Last but not least, let me say that my former fellow Member of Praise would say that it is unhygienic to say that on September 11th there was an attack on the United States of America, even for this simple reason because of the deaths of people from the 77 countries of this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There are no more written applications for discussion. The debate is now limited to five minutes. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor first. Excuse me, Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic, did you raise your hand earlier? [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr. Dorian Marshich. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I was not informed about the Foreign Policy Committee meeting this morning, and therefore I was unable to participate in the debate on this document, which I think is very important and also good enough. Except perhaps in point VI, at the last point when it is established, there is a meaningful causal link between the dramatic situation in the international community by many countries and peoples facing terrible economic and other problems of nature and terrorism. It would probably be better to say, in my opinion, that terrorism abuses such circumstances for its criminal acts. It is in this case that we are dealing with an act of terrorism that has probably required years of careful preparation and use of huge financial resources to make this happen. I mean, this is not what the poor of the world did, but people who obviously have other interests and, last but not least, very likely have very strong financial economic interests. These criminals simply want to show that they were punishing those who had developed a part of the world that they thought for centuries and decades had kept in the foothills and despair a good part of the world’s population. I call on us to consider keeping this dictatorship as it is, in this paragraph under Roman VI. As far as the International Criminal Court is concerned. I absolutely support this call that we are sending to the government today to send a law on the ratification of the Rome Statute to the National Assembly as soon as possible. In order for the powers of this court to be extended to terrorism and so on, it is, of course, necessary to ensure that the International Court of Justice is operational. And that's only possible when 60 countries are ratified. So far, to my knowledge, the statute has been ratified by some 30 countries. I support the adoption of this resolution, but I repeat, it is likely that the dictatorship in paragraph VI should be reconsidered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to inform you that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly held this week in Ottawa, Canada, also discussed the fight against terrorism. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly adopted a special declaration on the issue of combating terrorism, prepared by President Rafael Estrela. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly Declaration welcomes the United Nations resolution, 1368, which expresses its readiness to take all necessary steps to respond to terrorist attacks and the Council of Europe statement that actions must be directed towards countries supporting and hosting terrorists and calls for as wide a coalition against terrorism as possible under the auspices of the United Nations, on all fronts and with all available means. Members of the Parliamentary Assembly confirmed the need to ratify the United Nations Convention against Terrorism and the measures agreed at the extraordinary meeting of the Council of Europe. They also had a common position and were united in that the measures in connection with the implementation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Agreement were appropriate. The Slovenian delegation participated in the preparation and co-signed a joint statement by the 10 member states of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and also deposited a special statement by our Slovenian delegation, in which we strongly condemned, in the spirit of the statements made by the President of the State, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the barbaric terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September. We have expressed our condolences to the American citizens and families of victims from 77 countries. We have shared the view that this is an unacceptable act of violence, an attack on values, democracy and the freedom of all countries, and we have also shared the support of our governments to offer available forces and to cooperate and intensify the fight against terrorism, the defence of values and the ideals of the Euro-Atlantic community and the civilisation world. I think this resolution is going in this direction and, of course, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Bernick, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The new Slovenia, as has already been said, will support this resolution, although due to the unaccepted invitation to the meeting I personally could not participate in this matter. I do not think that the urgency of these last days has been justified, nor has the delay which led to this resolution or this declaration been justified. After that, I can see that there was quite a bit of snitching that our country would have gone in. From this delay and reporting to our media about the events that followed the tragedy in New York, anyone could have concluded that our country had not known for a long time what it wanted. Even more, some have even speculated that perhaps our countries, our authorities, would like to sit in two chairs. Obviously this has become impossible, and today we are quick to accept this declaration. In the context of the current international political situation and reality, the slowness of our policy has given the world the wrong signals. Let me mention that these signals were particularly wrong as regards the European Community and NATO. Recently, I read a very interesting opinion from an analyst who says something similar. Although NATO is also in the business of promoting stability, it is clear that NATO will not open the door to membership for those countries that want only stability and prosperity. So far - and I quote further free, in free translation - Nate's policy so far was not to accept new members who are recipients of security. Only those members who are able to play an important role and make an important contribution to European stability will be accepted. Therefore, the same author believes that the last members adopted in NATO were Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, bearing the responsibility of membership, not as a burden, but as a sign of exclusiveness and their success. They say somehow: we have reached. Well, it might also suggest that we think this way. A tragedy in New York a month ago hurt the citizens of many countries. So our association with this international action against terrorism is not blindly following one of the policies of the United States where this criminal and barbaric attack took place, but through this declaration we join international solidarity against terrorism. We therefore hope that the incentives for our declaration addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be successful and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be swift, consistent and good in the implementation of these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, please, then Mr Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also support the declaration of the National Assembly, with all the emphasis given in it. Also because I had already requested a debate on international terrorism at a meeting of the foreign policy committee on 18 September, because that debate was also announced by the President of the National Assembly. As a result, I was increasingly disturbed and surprised by the delay in the adoption of the relevant declaration. I think that the acceptance of the declaration is important and that when we discuss this declaration, which I firmly believe we will accept by acclamation, we also reject the suggestion that this is too much service to the United States. It has been found here several times now that the whole world has been attacked by this, that they have been victims from 77 countries, and, on the other hand, I do not think it is necessary for us to in some way express our alliance and our sympathy with the United States of America in some way. For America, last but not least, was the country that had actually taken decisive steps in the regional area of South-Eastern Europe and stopped the delaying of European powers many times. Finally, I must conclude that it was always the main ally of Slovenia, both after World War I, when US President Wilson issued or helped to bring about an extremely democratic solution in favour of the Slovenian national issue, which we did not use with plebiscite in Koroška. These reasons, why not, will not be discussed here. With the exception of the role of Minister Baker, the United States of America has also been decisive in understanding Slovenian independence and we also know of the role of the United States - a positive role - in the resolution of the Balkan wars and the Balkan crisis. As a result, such hints and the awakening of anti-American hysteria in Slovenia are unjustifiable and must also be rejected by such a declaration. On the other hand, I take this delay in some way as an objection to the Foreign Minister, who has clearly defined this matter. Of course, I also welcome his statement today that indecisiveness meant that we would show the world that Slovenia is a soft point safe for terrorism. That is exactly what is true and especially because the territory of today's independent Republic of Slovenia was a soft point for terrorism - this is what we must stress in the case of terrorism and the kidnapping of the ship "Akilavrov" when the protection of terrorists, kidnappers, founders of terrorism with the active role of the then Slovenian politicians through Slovenian territory. All of these emphasis is in some way necessary for us to reject some way the excitement in Slovenia. We must also reject any suggestion to upset the Slovenian public; no, we do not disturb the Slovenian public, this declaration is intended to protect the Slovenian public in order to bring them to their senses. But I take interpretations for exhilaration when the Minister invites rockets and bombs into Slovenian territory with his statements - and this is what I think is disturbing the public. I hope that such excitement will be silenced in the future after the adoption of this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Kacin wishes to replicate Mr Jerovska's performance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like to object to the debate of the distinguished colleague Jerovš for two reasons: firstly, because he is not only Joseph Jerovšek, but he is the man who runs the committee for the supervision of our intelligence services; and secondly, because we have had a closed session today to discuss many things that do not belong to the plenary session. It is certainly not up to the plenary to cite cases from the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia gained its independence on 25 June 1991 and has since continued to pursue an independent foreign policy. Instigating the responsibility to act before this is extremely inappropriate, especially at this point in the agenda. With regard to our relationship with the Americans, the victims of both terrorist attacks or both terrorist attacks, I want to say that we have had a sad session and that this national assembly, on behalf of the Slovenian Parliament, has succeeded and addressed our position and our regret for all that has happened. That's why I'm gonna say it again. It seems to me that it is necessary and prudent for the work of working bodies to be closed to the public and, secondly, to hold agreements. It's called a state-of-the-art posture. And only in this way will we be able to receive all the necessary and relevant information from the allies with whom we participate in the anti-terrorist coalition. However, if we do not know how to deal with certain information, or if we explain it in our own way, it is not good for us or others, but at least for the effectiveness of the coalition, as well as for the reputation of this national assembly. For these reasons, I object to the debate of the distinguished colleague Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I have to object to my colleague Kacin because in the last part he mentioned something, as if any information had been provided on the Foreign Policy Committee at the closed session. There was no information and I strongly reject such incitement to the inability to retain information. At the same time, I must point out to my colleague Kacin that I am fully committed to this debate in time, based on a very clear definition and a timely definition. If he feels attacked or affected by the fact that it was so late, then he would ask him to react in a different way, not to attack those who from the start and in a timely manner, that Slovenia too would be clearly defined in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters, I am concluding the general debate. I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues in the area. Given that no amendments have been tabled, we will move on to a joint declaration on the fight against terrorism. We are fully voting on the declaration of a joint fight against terrorism. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the declaration has been fully adopted. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. And as agreed, we are moving again on to the completion of the draft Law on State aid for the eradication of the consequences of drought, drought, drought and storms in agriculture for the year 2001. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, including the representative of the secretariat. We stayed on page six of the amendments. In my debate and decision-making, I am giving Article 7 and the amendment to this Article, the applicant of which is the working body of the mother. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 8 and on the three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, noting that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Committee and the Government under order numbers 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 35. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 8 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 9 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and the amendment of the parent working body to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote on the amendment! There are 56 Members and Members of Parliament. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 11 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under order number 1, the amendment to the Government's amendment is supported by the mother's working body. And under order number two, the government's amendment. Mr Kebric took the floor. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you have read the opinion of the secretariat, which says that this amendment is superfluous because it is already being resolved by the basic law; and this law is the first version of 1992, number 48 since 3 December, which resolves this matter, I will read very briefly to see and know where the complication is. "This law lays down the criteria and conditions under which farmers and members of their holdings are insured under the rules on pension and disability insurance [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the insurers’]] may reduce or write off contributions to pension and disability insurance’. End of quote. Then talk about accidents, droughts and so on. In the Official Journal of the European Union, From 21 14.4.1995, however, it is being supplemented - I will read the title: Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conditions under which Reduced or Canceled Contributions are deemed paid. Here he says: In the law on the conditions under which he says only "...to farmers reduced or cancelled contributions are considered paid". It is said that members of the economy are excluded because this law clearly specifies: only farmers. He continues to say, "decreased or cancelled contributions to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the institution’]] the settlement of the Republic of Slovenia from the state budget." In this respect, the matter would be fine, but only for farmers. On the other hand, the four parliamentary groups propose to include health care, as health care is not resolved by this basic law, so the pension and disability insurance institution, which has to receive compensation from the State budget for the cancellation of contributions. However, if we want to save health care, which is not so easy, because the health insurance provider can be one and the family members connected to it, who are covered by his address. We are now in coordination with the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, as well as others, and we have come to the conclusion that, if we do not write anything and withdraw our amendment - and the government proposes to withdraw or terminate, cancel the entire article 11 - the pension and disability insurance insurers will be specifically insured under this basic title, they will need to be accounted for at that time and, on the other hand, the state budget of STIZ will compensate the difference that will be written down on the basis of this drought law. But the health care department won't get the money you should get. And what's going on? It happens that there is a health institution - as you know, I'm saying round numbers - 10 billion deficits if now the contribution rate rises by 0.20, this will go down to 4 billion in the coming year. However, with all such write-offs already in progress and yet to come, this institution will, of course, be in an ever-increasing deficit if it does not receive compensation from the state budget for the cancellation of its contributions. Now I've explained all this to you. I'm always honest with myself, and I'll say the following. If we delete Article 11 - it is said that we must first withdraw the amendment of all four signatories under the Rules of Procedure, then we must accept the Government's amendment to delete Article 11 - it is clear that contributions will be written off to farmers and members of farmers' economies, they will be settled by the budget, and there will be no write-off for health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, first of all Mr. Rokavec, on the amendment, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u74	Yes, the amendment just explained by Comrade Kebrich. In fact, it makes sense for both amendments to be supported in spite of everything, so that in some way the problem can be resolved. On the contrary, another question can then be asked. If paragraphs 11 and 12 are deleted, then farmers or their family members will, of course, have to submit applications as to the ZPIZ Assembly, including to the Health Insurance Institute for write-offs or partial write-offs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u76	Excuse me. I don't know if I'm invited to answer that. I should probably reply to the secretariat, but given the clarity that is known, the fact is that what will be written down, then the ZIPZ, the pension and disability insurance institution, must request from the state budget compensation or the equivalent of this contribution and the state budget must settle the outstanding contribution for the previous year by 31 March. However, if we want to help a little now or if I want to help and I want to suggest something, it is up to you, or we accept it; for the first time, that we do not prolong the procedure, because otherwise I have to take one hour off or two to resolve the matter. If this amendment, which we have tabled, falls, then the amendment is adopted to cancel or abolish Article 11, we have concluded the matter today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Tauzes, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u78	The government would suggest in this case that, of course, Article 11 withdraw from So, the amendment to Article 11, in order to withdraw and thus resolve the complication. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u79	The government. I'm sorry. You have your word, Mrs. Sok, then Mr. Juban. Let's get this straight, Mr. Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u80	I'm sorry. They were whispering wrong. This is a deletion, of course, of this Article 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u81	We don't have such an amendment, Mr. Tauzes. Procedural proposal, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We do not have such a proposal on the table, which is referred to, where the deletion of Article 11 is not envisaged, we have nothing to vote on. I propose that we vote on what we have on the table and what is possible by procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, then Mr Weber, spoke first. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I took the floor when the Secretary of State announced that he was proposing the deletion of Article 11. This is not an option, therefore, but I support what Mr Juban said, because we have been clearing this up on the committee yesterday and I propose that we proceed to the vote without these two hours of rest announced by Mr Kebric.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Given that we are in, I think that the second reading, when we vote on the amendments, would probably be the most appropriate thing to vote, at least one of the amendments tabled, and by the third reading, the government will write an amendment to delete Article 11. And we can vote normally. We must vote on at least one amendment to keep the article open. By the third reading, the Government shall submit its amendment deleting this Article. Within the framework of a rapid procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. First we decide on the amendment under order number one, this is an amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting! 49 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 8. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the text of Article 11 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. There were 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 12 has been deleted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the parent working body to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Chapter 8. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the title of the chapter has been drawn. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the two amendments to Article 15. Under one is the amendment of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; under the order number two is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 32. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the last amendment, namely the amendment of the home working body to Article 16 and Article 16 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. In view of the complications and the arrangements that have taken place, I ask whether qualified candidates want to make an amendment to the third reading of the open article. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u88	I think that at least one case will have to be examined, and I suggest we do so by Tuesday; as I understand, then the continuation of this meeting will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-12-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Since the applicants would like to prepare an amendment by the third reading, I am terminating the second item of the agenda at this point. With the third treatment of this broken point, we will continue on Tuesday at 2 p.m., and then discuss amendments to the gambling law. Thank you very much! On Tuesday, at 2 p.m., we resume our extraordinary session. Have a nice weekend and good-bye! Thank you all very much.
