ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jože Tanko, Andrej Fabjan, Mag. Janez Kramberger, Ivan Kebrich, mag. Zoran Gračner, Dr. Miha Brejc, Anton Delak from 11.15 a.m. on, Janez Cimperman, Dorian Marsic, Mario Gasparini, Bojan Kontic, Majda Zupan, Alojz Peterle, Dusan Wolf from 12 noon on, Ljubo Germič, Leopold Kremjar, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Leopold Grošelj, Sašo Pece, Peter Levič, Janez Janša, Yuri Malovra, Franz Kangler, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Franz Čebulj and Franz Pukšič. Since we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards. Colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us kindly join us because the number on the monitor shows insufficient presence for the current work of the National Assembly. I ask politely again that you insert the cards because we have a presence. There are 46 Members and Members present; this is how the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, so I welcome the lady. Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the discussion of the 27th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wages Act, the method of harmonising wages and the Regression for annual leave in the period 1999-2001. The assembly will then move on to the 28th item, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the level of reimbursement of labour costs and certain other benefits, and then for the consideration of the 6th item, this is a proposal for a law on road transport. Next, the assembly will move on to a closed 16th point, this is a proposal for a law on public gatherings, and then in order to proceed. So we move on to 27. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Minimum Payments, on how to harmonise wages and on the Regree for Summer Leaves in the Period 1999-2001, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Ms Natasa Belopavlovich, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With the proposed law, we are legislating an annex to the 1999-2001 wage policy agreement signed by the social partners at the end of April this year. With this law, amendments and additions, we propose to harmonise the minimum wage in a way that applies to employees in the private sector, i.e. the economy sector. Since the implementation of the agreement on how to harmonise wages in the public sector, there have been some differences between ways of harmonising the starting wages for the public and the private sector. The proposal provides for the harmonisation of wages for the month of August for 92.5% of the increase in prices of living needs, and for the harmonisation of wages for January 2002. In the same way as the minimum wage, the guaranteed salary is also coordinated, which, as you know, is particularly important in the design of individual social security rights or social transfers. However, this law also provides for this year's annual vacation regress, which by law must not be lower than 117.298 tolars, which is of course important because these regressions are already starting to pay off. The law shall apply until 31 January 2001. However, those provisions relating to the minimum wage should also apply after the proposal after that date, unless a new agreement or a new law is reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, at the 6th extraordinary meeting, on 11.5., the working body, the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, considered the draft law and, of course, took note of both the content of the law and the purpose of the law in the same sense as you had just heard from the representative of the proposer, Mrs State Secretary. The secretariat also took note of the written and additional oral opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, with particular reference being made to articles 2 and 3 of the proposed law. This is the basis that the Committee, or members of the Committee, has also devoted some attention to the debate and has also drawn up the necessary two amendments, which is also sufficient for the reasoned comments of the Secretariat. By agreeing to the draft law, including as regards the procedure, and by supporting the reduced procedure, the members of the Committee agreed in the context of the general debate, and by formulating the two amendments already mentioned in Article 2. After the discussion, the members of the Committee also adopted a decision recommending that the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Minimum Wages, on the method of harmonising wages and on the Regression for annual leave during the period 1999-2001 be considered together with the amendment tabled by the Committee and adopted following a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Janez Drobnič, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Nice greetings to all fellow Members! A nice welcome to the representatives of the government and to the other participants in today's session! First, I would like to say that in New Slovenia we support the amendment of the law. We are also in favour of a rapid procedure, we have already said that, but we are not all the solutions that the government has presented. This is also reflected in the proposal for amendments which are not specifically interpreted and clearly written. So in April, the social partners agreed on how wages will be coordinated, i.e. minimum and starting wages. We do not object to this agreement, we strongly support it, but we are very careful when these instruments are used to provide and pay for various state aids or social transfers. That's what we've already said. In fact, you are all aware that starting and minimum wages do not reflect the general trend and the same trend in average wage growth in Slovenia. Therefore, it is also necessary to understand the unions that they are primarily looking at average wages. Because employers add different forms of allowances to the starting salary, which then, of course, normalise these benefits, which are then consistent with the increase in the cost of living. Of course, I am here to ask myself whether trade unions are no longer interested in this basic item, the starting and minimum wages, which are the basic criteria for social transfers. This means that they are only interested in the general policy. But the policy of paying for the lowest layers is no longer of interest to them. When they concluded this agreement on wage coordination for the public sector, they then stated, after harmonisation, last December, that the government had slightly withdrawn them. That's how they do their job. I'm not getting involved in this either. However, people and citizens need to know who represents them and what the views and successes of these negotiators are. What do I want to point out? So the starting wages and minimum wages are aligned to 92.5% of the cost of living and not 100%. That's the first one. I mentioned, of course, that this would have consequences for social transfers, for money aid, grants and other payments from the state budget. This means that the gap between social transfer, which is somehow aligned with the starting salary, is increasingly moving away from the average remuneration. You can also look at this more easily on the Internet as we monitor the growth of various transfers as well as wages. The guaranteed salary increased by 176% from 1993 to 2001. The average wage increased by 293% in the same period, the pension of the fighters by 291%. This means that the only pension of fighters, peasant fighters, is followed by an increase in average wages, while the guaranteed wage is actually split. So those who advocate or advocate an option in favor of the layers from the bottom, of course, you cannot agree with such a trend, absolutely not. But that's a fact - a fact, a way of coordinating. These are also compensations for the period of unemployment. And then, of course, we agree to something, I'll say, a form of behavior that for the time of unemployment they receive extremely low compensation, and then in our minds we tolerate additional earnings on the black market, so that people can ensure social security. However, this cannot be a way of regulating social transfers, so that we can calculate these negative forms of additional earnings. We should be aware that from the growth of the social product, all positive effects are expected, but not that we are doing mainly positive effects for those layers that already have very well-secured salaries and other benefits. So, from this growth of social product, actually, smaller layers have nothing. That is why we have also tabled these amendments to address these bad trends that have accumulated in recent years. So much for the position and opinions of New Slovenia to the law on the harmonisation of minimum and starting wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since no member group wants to present its opinions again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has notified themselves in writing, the debate is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Would you like to explain, Mrs Belopavlovič, to the comments of the New Slovenia Group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	In just a few words, I would like to say that it is not true that trade unions in the negotiations would not be very committed to coordination and to a way of raising minimum wages. I must say that it is also not true that the minimum and starting wages are coordinated in exactly the same way as the minimum and guaranteed salaries as the starting wages. Because you obviously ignored what you said at the end - the positive effects of the growth of the social product are known at the minimum wage. We have in the basic text of Article 5 of Law, which in fact provides that, especially in the case of normal coordination, as with the starting salary, the minimum wage is further coordinated. According to the growth of the social product, the minimum wage was further adjusted in 1999 by 3.9, by 4.9 per cent in the previous year and by 4.6 per cent in the current year. So the fact is that, in addition to what is normally the starting salary, the minimum wage and guaranteed wages are further harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much to the government. For the second time, Mrs Belopavlovič, just please, it is a custom for you to get up in the performance, so that I ask you for a second time to get up. Anybody else want to discuss this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Because no, I am concluding the general debate and we are moving on to a second reading - a discussion and a decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 6. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal is, I think, Mr Sok, that presence is ensured. [[....]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to examine the premises in the neighborhood if any of your colleagues have a card inserted and are not present. We've counted 46 of us in the hall. Thanks for the heads-up. Please, we've counted now, and without using the device, we're 46. I think we can move on. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 30.5.2001. I am giving Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group, to discuss and decide. The amendment government doesn't support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 31 to 12. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and on the two amendments to Article 2. Under order number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is not supported by the Government. Under 2 is the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 31. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 3. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members; the amendment does not support the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 10 to 35. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 5. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading amendment to Article 2 has been adopted to the proposal for a law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this open article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Since no, I ask the secretariat whether, perhaps because of the amendment adopted, the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Branko Kelemina wishes to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I will personally vote against the adoption of this law, not because I would not allow those who have the lowest wages to get a tolar in addition to it, but because I do not agree with this wage ratio and the allocation of capital and income in this country. Now, let's say we have European prices, so to speak, for a whole range of products, products. We are so close to fuel, liquid fuels, gasoline, etc., as well as other energy. Telecommunications services are being auctioned again. In fact, we will bring all prices closer to European prices, of course at an approaching approximation and entry. However, wages in many areas remain far below this level. I think that the country is that institution, and, of course, a ruling coalition, in the long term, which is responsible for bringing even the smallest wages closer to European level. Because this is not the case, and because it is also possible for businesses, managers, and all in certain areas, not all, but most of them, including their policies and their desire for the greatest possible profit, are printing these minimum wages even where they could be slightly raised, I mean minimum wages. With such a policy in its entirety, I generally cannot agree with it, so this law, unfortunately, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Drobnič also wants to explain his voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I will vote against this law, but not against, of course, the solutions that mean harmonising the regression, because I have made clear against those, too, that I do not oppose, and all those solutions that the social partners have aligned only with the objective of harmonising average wages. I will vote because of the things or proposals we have put forward in New Slovenia with the aim of maintaining social dignity, but they have been rejected. This is a clear message, my, with the adoption of this law, of course. Because I do not agree that the guaranteed salaries, which are the basic parameter for social transfers, would remain at such a low level and thus increase the pauperisation of the Slovenian population. That's my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic also has an explanation of vote. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you. My colleague and I in the Slovenian National Party Group supported the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the New Slovenia Group for the reasons that have already been said twice. Also because this amendment has not been adopted, my colleague and I will be voting on behalf of the parliamentary group, the two present members only because of this against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Honorable National Assembly! I myself will vote against such solutions as this law stipulates. I wonder what this government will actually do at this stage to fill the state budget more. The pensioners have agreed to a pension reduction, and the unions are now agreeing to a reduction, harmonisation of minimum wages. April inflation was 1.1%, which means prices are rising dramatically. What a situation we are putting people in in this country, shows the kind of law we have before us today. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. This law primarily regulates the relationship between the ability offered by employers and employees. As part of these two partners, they have agreed and we have virtually no right to intervene differently than they have agreed. It's just that ability that now makes it possible. As a Member, I accept it and also support this solution offered by the law. However, it is certain that these small wages should be higher, but it is necessary to establish different foundations in our national economy first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Explanations to the voice, Mrs. Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! Of course, I will vote in favour of this law. Not only because it is a matter of respecting the agreement and essentially legalising the agreement between the social partners, but also because if today there were more votes against than for, of course, all private sector employees would be placed in a fairly unequal position with those in the public sector. For public sector employees, this agreement has already been confirmed by the amendment of the law at the end of last year, while private sector employees have not yet been affected. What we are adopting today, and the law that we are going to adopt today and for which I am voting for, in fact, also means certain social security in the sense that the employer in the private sector is obliged to respect the law, both with regard to wage coordination, baseline and the minimum level of regression. If this guarantee is not in law, of course private sector employees can be placed in a rather unpleasant position. I will therefore vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 9. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on the amount of reimbursements of costs in connection with work and certain other expenses, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Nataša Belopavlovič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	A respected choir! With effect from 1 July, the Government's order to amend and supplement the provisions on the quality of liquid fuels as regards sulphur, lead and benzene content shall cease to apply. Thus, it comes from the sale of 98 octane leaded petrol on which the refunds were paid, i.e. kilometres for the use of a passenger car for official purposes and the reimbursement of transport costs to and from work, unless someone has the opportunity to provide public transport. In place of this gasoline, which we have used so far, gasoline 95 octanes, unleaded gasoline is gasoline, which is a quality replacement for the previous fuel, which also shows that virtually 95-octane unleaded motor gasoline is the most currently sold fuel in Slovenia. The amount of this refund is in contrast in line with the changes in gas prices, so - I must say that I am already somehow responding to the proposed amendment by the New Slovenia Group of Members - it seems to us that the reference to the constant stimulation of petrol is unfounded. In fact, the cost compensation is coordinated simultaneously with the coordination of this price of petrol, so that we think that the issue is perfectly correct in this respect - as far as fuels are being auctioned, there is also a change in the way in which these refunds are coordinated or for these compensations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Does the rapporteur wish to present the Committee's views? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Drobnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna be a little short, so I'm not going on the dance floor. So, the government has drafted a text of amendments to the Labour Reimbursement Act, explaining that it wanted to blur the key thing, namely: costs will be reimbursed in a smaller amount than before. See Article 2 of the existing law, there's nothing in there about leaded or unleaded petrol. If the accused falls out of the market segment, they could simply use the term as it is in the existing law. There was no need to change anything. Of course, this is about how much we would reduce, given the rise in gas prices, the reimbursement of costs. If we had adopted a proposal prepared by the government, this would have been a reduction of about 20 tolars per litre. Members of New Slovenia said that we should keep what it is, and that is why it is already reducing the cost-recovery, given the price increase, by about 10 tolars. If we were to have in mind and desire to maintain these costs at the same level as the price of petrol, we should choose another instrument, but for the original price of petrol, which is leaded. Therefore, if we are willing and willing to maintain the same amount of reimbursement. The government has therefore decided to make a radical move, in view of budgetary problems, we have proposed an intermediate option, which unfortunately reduces the cost-recovery, compared to actual growth, the average fuel growth. That's the whole story. After that, the government's proposal, in fact, is behind the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since obviously no more members of the Group would like to present their views, I give the floor to Members and Members whose debate is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. Since the bill contains three articles and one amendment tabled, there is no review of the amendments in this case. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and an amendment to Article 1 of which the New Slovenia Group of Members is the proponent. Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 26. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 7. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We vote on Article 2. There are 50 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 5. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 3. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're going to the vote. We're voting on the title of the law! There are 50 Members and Members present. In favour of 29 votes against 6. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Anybody want a word? Because no, I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading. Therefore, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 4. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, including the representative of our secretariat. We're moving to six. Period of the day - Defence Bill on Transportation in Road Traffic, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister of Transport, Mr. Jakob Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The government has tabled a proposal for a road transport law for admission to the National Assembly and proposes to adopt it quickly. So that we do not tire out of the importance of adopting this law, given that it has been dealt with several times in the home labour force, let me say just a few reasons for adopting this law, which is also an important law to close the chapter "Transport". The only law that matters to the closing of this chapter. The law regulates the conditions for participation in transport, international transport frameworks and also affects the transport market segment, the organisation of transport activities and the internal relationship in transport activities. Most of the cargo in the Republic of Slovenia is transported by road. This is a known information and unfortunately this relationship is accelerating. This is why it is a great task for all of us to change this trend by properly preparing the transport policy and, above all, by implementing it. Therefore, what are the main objectives of this Act: to ensure access to the passenger and goods market based on the Directive of the European Union, to ensure access to the market for international transport of goods in the European Union, to ensure access to the internal transport market of goods for foreign road hauliers and to the regulation of cabotage, to ensure access to the market for international bus transport of passengers, to ensure access to the internal transport market of passengers also for foreign road hauliers, to provide for measures in the event of a crisis in the passenger transport market and to ensure measures in the event of strikes. As a proposaler, in this period, which, unfortunately, was too short, we have done a number of coordinations with everyone concerned by this law and for whom the law is also of vital importance. These are mainly both chambers and the Automobile Union. There was also a need for a number of inter-departmental coordination between individual ministries, and this is also why we have proposed a number of amendments to this law. One of the biggest problems facing transport activity is the area of parking. Therefore, it is known to everyone that the relevant regulation that would have entered into force since 1.7. this year, but since there was a transitional period of five years, for various reasons, both objective and subjective, has not been implemented in most cases and there would have been a large void or a major problem with 1.7. I am convinced that, by law and above all through coordination and with the relevant amendments, this deadline for regulation has been duly extended, and that it is also in line with the Chambers, the transport operators and, in particular, the other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, which must ensure that parking is adequate and that we also respect the principles of environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Andrey Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At its 9th meeting, in five further sessions, the Committee discussed the proposal for a road transport law, even yesterday after a meeting of the National Assembly, a little at night. In its consideration of the proposal for a law, the Committee was particularly aware of how the proposer wished to regulate the situation in road transport, in particular the international framework for these transports, market relations, the organisation of transport activities and the relationship between transport activities. Of course, this law seeks to improve the conditions for access to the international transport market for passengers and goods and to establish a relationship to the internal market for foreign carriers. The Committee also paid considerable attention to the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which in particular highlighted the issue of a broad legal substance and the issue of a rapid procedure. In this regard, the members of the Committee had the same opinion as the secretariat when considering the law in a rapid procedure. A great deal of written comments have arrived, and it has also assured the proposer that intensive coordination is taking place with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, with the interlocutors and also with representatives of the trade unions of motorists and owners of construction machinery. The Committee therefore adopted two procedural decisions, namely that on 18 April the first hearing on the proposal for a road transport law was initiated and, in view of the written comments received and supplemented, and in view of the secretariat's comments, the Committee will give support for the consideration of the law at the next meeting - this was on 25 April then. The second decision was to examine all written comments, the amendments tabled and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, and to draw up a position on the comments until the next meeting and, if necessary, to submit the relevant amendments. On 11 May this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted 43 amendments and 44 more. Following the meeting, the 23.5. Committee concluded its general examination of the law by means of a rapid procedure of this legislative procedure. On the basis of the debate and new written comments, mainly by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the drafter proposed additional amendments to the law. To this end, it adopted the following decision: "The proposal is proposed that, on the basis of the initiatives for additional amendments based on today's debate on individual solutions and on the basis of the amendments already tabled and any written comments made, additional amendments or any comments and amendments already tabled." On 22 May and 24 May, the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Secretariat for Law and Our Professional Service, prepared solutions in the form of texts for 42 additional amendments, taking into account the comments of the Secretariat concerning the systemic legal aspect and the comments of both chambers and trade unions, which are substantive and in the opinion of the Ministry. These additional amendments graduate from some of the amendments tabled, including by Members and Governments, or replace them and establish the fundamental consistency of solutions. Yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. 31.5., requested or addressed to the National Assembly a proposal that, due to the State's interest in Slovenia's integration into the European Union at the 6th meeting of the Assembly, a proposal for a law in the framework of a rapid procedure should begin to be considered. This could prove that we are ahead of closure of the IX. Chapters - that's transport. Thus, the Infrastructure Committee, following its 9th meeting yesterday, began to define the amendments tabled by qualified applicants and proposals for additional amendments. Due to the amount of time and time available yesterday morning, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, on the basis of the additional amendments prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it should hold a general discussion on the proposal for a road transport law under the rapid legislative procedure. Nevertheless, as I have already said, we had a meeting of the committee yesterday after the meeting of the National Assembly, and I thank the members of the committee who participated despite the late hours. We defined ourselves to the amendments tabled. We went through the amendments, defined them and finally adopted a decision, which reads: "The Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, following a general discussion and a debate and a vote on the articles of the proposed Road Transport Act, within the framework of a rapid procedure, it shall adopt a decision which reads as follows: 'The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall prepare for the third discussion and vote on the legislative proposal in full and in accordance with Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a comprehensive text of the proposed Road Transport Act'." The writing provides an overview of the amendments with definitions as well as an additional report. By 12:00 this report will also be distributed to all Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I called because I had been warned by just a few competent organisations, let's say, some of the shortcomings in this law - and asked that, despite the fact that they are possible, given that we do not have the opportunity to monitor the current developments in the committee, which they may have already discussed on the Committee, and therefore I apologize in advance. I would like to point out the following shortcomings. The Transport Act, according to some chambers, is not in accordance with the rules of the European Union. I am talking about Directive 96/26 of the European Union, as amended by 98/76. They estimate that there are certain provisions in this law that reduce the competitiveness of Slovenian carriers. I was also reminded of the requirements that carriers have to attach a certificate of taxes paid or all obligations for each licence and, on the other hand, they have pointed out that these carriers are the country's largest debtor. In passenger transport, however, I was asked to point out that it is necessary - once again, I apologize if the Committee has already done so - to align Article 31 with Article 48 of the same law. This harmonisation would give rise to the same conditions for both domestic and foreign carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Initially, it has been agreed that representatives of the parliamentary groups will perform here, and I note that some in this House have a different order. As regards this law, as a member of the Infrastructure Committee and a representative of New Slovenia, I would like to say that the basic purpose of this law was to facilitate access to the market for the transport of goods and passengers, both in internal and external transport, while harmonising the law with legislation in the European Union. Mainly, in the entire debate on this law, there were three dilemmas, in my opinion and on the basis of cooperation, as far as I was concerned, namely, one dilemma was related to parking spaces, then the other, with regard to public line transport and third, with regard to the distribution of licences. At the outset, at first reading, the proposal published in the Rapporteur appeared to be flawed in many ways. However, it has also been shown that interested representatives of civil society, especially the trade union, have not been sufficiently involved in this law, and that we will therefore have major problems on the Committee with regard to the adoption of this law. That is why at the end of so many amendments, since the amendments to this law are more than just articles. So, I was in a dilemma, or should I perhaps not suggest at the last meeting of the committee that the government might table a new bill, which would be easier, would be more transparent, and the adoption process in the National Assembly would, in my opinion, be simpler than now that we have to go through more than 130 amendments and still still come, I see, on the table some amendments. As far as parking lots are concerned, parking spaces are supposed to be a condition for licensing. We have also received a review of the laws of some neighbouring countries, and it has been shown that in Austria and Germany they do not have those provisions in the Road Traffic Act, but, of course, as has been said, it does not - I think that these provisions would not possibly be recorded in any other law. That is why some of us have also proposed that we do the same and that this law would exempt them and then properly legislate them in some other sub-legislative regulation, which eventually, with the amendment, has somehow been enforced and will then, if the amendment is adopted, have some legal effect. As far as parking lots are concerned, there are two-layer problems here. One problem is the municipal spatial plans, which do not specify many locations where such parking places could be built. This is also the biggest problem, as it was said in the debate itself by motorists that the criteria for parking arrangements are met today - that is, after not knowing how many years the Regulation has been in force for seven years - that this condition meets about 10% of all car carriers in Slovenia. The second problem, of course, is of a financial nature. We know what kind of rolling stock we have, we know what our economy is, and we also know what it is possible to calculate and manage finances in this country for a short time. Now, somehow with the amendment, one compromise solution has been made to allow the issuance of the licence in the first round of the car carrier's declaration itself, so that by the end of the year he can play a role in the administrative unit for the construction of the parking lot. After the new year, he will also have to have a confirmation from the administrative unit that he has submitted such an application to the administrative unit. The question, however, is what will happen in those local communities that do not have spatial plans to deal with these matters. For, simply - if not from a location, with a spatial plan defined a location, such a role simply cannot be given after the new year. This will mean that he will lose his licence to carry out transport operations. The second issue we discussed on the Committee and dealt with it is the problem of public line transport. In fact, it surprises me here that the government is avoiding a better-quality solution than is now indicated in this law - I repeat, of course, if the amendments that have been tabled are adopted - that the government has not offered any analysis. In fact, in the law, if the amendments are adopted, we have now written that the Republic of Slovenia will subsidise these transports on public lines through the budget, it is said, those that the state will determine - those that are non-profitable and the state wants to exist nonetheless. However, some studies, some analyses as to how much this should be and how much it would cost us, in fact, we did not get the members on the committee and, in my opinion, we voted on a matter more in mind and can later prove itself in the law itself as an unfair or not a good solution. The third issue, as I mentioned, is the licensing system. With the amendments that are now being tabled in the basic text, I believe that this licensing system will become more transparent, simpler and, above all, more effective. In fact, in the past there have been a lot of controversy in the public and a lot of complaints by motorists when some licenses were received, not by others. As New Slovenia, we will advocate that this system will be fair and that car carriers will have the opportunity to look into the permit distribution records. One of the amendments was also written in this direction. At that amendment, we will discuss and support it in a special way. As I said before, a large number of amendments have been made to the law itself. These amendments are, above all, - as I have followed and compared - what the trade union and the Chamber of Commerce demanded in the debate itself on this law. I must say, the government has listened to all of this in the final stages. Some also have a parental committee that has made some of its own amendments. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support these amendments, which we think are good. And thus, of course, they finally supported the law and thus helped the State of Slovenia to close this chapter in negotiations with the European Union, as the chairman of the committee has said, which has been working very hard to actually address this law at this meeting of the National Assembly, and there are no problems - I have to say this - not by the opposition, which could cause problems, but by its own party, it is said by LDS Members, which we do not think is right and appropriate in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Your Honor! I would like to present the opinion of the DeSUS Group. The present law lays down the conditions and means of carrying out the carriage of passengers and goods in internal and international road transport. However, only part of this issue is dealt with by law. Every day, we are witnessing an ever more pressing situation on our roads. For a decade, the number of vehicles has been increasing at a sufficiently high level and does not show any moderation. The level of motorisation in Slovenia has already reached the level of highly developed countries, although the gross social product is even three times smaller. This leads to quite a few conclusions. We also note that we have an enormous rolling stock that is far below the standard and is untapped; that, despite the declared liberalisation of transports in the European area, our carriers are still waiting for additional restrictions, if not others, and technical restrictions when entering foreign roads; that on our roads and through our country, there are thousands of vehicles, mostly foreign, even unnecessary; that we are not able to maintain roads or running, let alone build new, expensive motorways. Chances on our roads are picking up an unheard-of high blood tax, and the victim is primarily our youth. It would therefore be appropriate, if not at the same time, but at least in a meaningful order, to draw up other regulations, thereby logically regulating the whole problem of transport, especially in the part where several types of traffic are intertwined; for example, part of road freight and rail transport. So let us be firm - let most of the transit road freight go to the railway, as well as the cargo for which there is no reason to travel on the road in domestic traffic. Cities and suburban roads are suffocating in the traffic of passenger cars. And if we take a good look, in most cases there's only one passenger in the vehicles. Trains are empty or are intended only for schoolchildren and possibly for workers. So we need to take all possible interventions seriously in order to divert as many passengers as possible from the roads. This also solves other problems, including parking problems, which are so highlighted in this law. Despite these concerns in DeSUS, we believe that the conditions for us to support the law are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The proposal for this law establishes certain and necessary rules which must also apply in the field of the transport market, both goods and road users, and establishes comparable rules that are present in the Member States of the European Union, with which our carriers meet daily on European roads. But it is true that this law interferes with a number of domestics or, I would say, some sort of escape. Therefore, it was also expected that full - even diametrically opposed - arguments would be raised in the examination of this law; both within the institutions concerned by this law and within the arguments of some Members themselves. This law is a law that deals with many interests, and as such, the law is accompanied by many problems. In our case, in the Group of Members, we draw attention in particular to one area that has stopped the current procedure for dealing with this law, this is the area of the conditions for obtaining a licence. We are of the opinion that in this area it is necessary to listen closely to the applicant; also as regards the compulsory possession of parking spaces, both for individuals who are self-employed and for legal persons dealing mainly with transport, transport of goods. Parking places are part of our common culture and also part of the urgency. All activities must satisfy the basic conditions that they can carry out this activity, both because of themselves and because of their environment. And there's nothing different about road transport. Now, however, it is also an opportunity to find themselves on the basis of Article 98 and Article 116, the necessary rules governing the acquisition of parking spaces for individuals as well as companies. First, they must be self-interested in this regard. Those who make this bread, [[Even the public]] and then other institutions, such as the local community and also the country for transit transport. So in any case, this matter is not as frightening as some imagine. There is a need for coordination and an initiative, an interest, first of all by both regional chambers of commerce and themselves, I would say, both natural and legal persons who provide this service. It is also debatable to meet certain conditions relating to financial order and financial discipline. We all say many times that it is high time to establish some financial discipline on a more comparable and acceptable scale. But when we knock ourselves here and there on this little step, the matter is immediately disputed. Here's the thing. Financial obligations towards the country must be settled first and foremost in all national economies and countries. And it is quite clear that this is also one of the conditions that puts someone who provides this service in, I would say, a comparatively positive attitude towards society. So that the SLS+SKD Group supports the bill's proposal, both in principle and in its content, but we are convinced that it can be further considered, otherwise, that the second treatment is somehow completed on the Home Working Committee and then on the third reading, the content of the law is also added where it is evident that the argument that things are changing. We also note that in the field of transport policy, given the much faster increase in traffic - especially in the number of motor vehicles in terms of the country's ability on a public scale - what ensures or requires that transport policy is involved much more intensively at the moment. And this law is now somehow the first part within a different country's approach to transport policy. But it's just the beginning. So that everything that comes from the same law and beyond, from the necessity of changing our transport policy in the field of transport, not only in road infrastructure, but primarily in road and in others, is still to be followed. That is why we support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Initially, the new road transport law can be said, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, that the kind before us is not irrelevant, but not the best. We are aware that this is a complex topic, which includes, of course, many actors and many different interests, as well as various monopolies, who would like to retain or even increase certain privileges in one way or another. That is why the length of the adoption of the law itself and the complications can be so long and difficult. However, we believe that at the first and second hearing, there will remain a whole range of open issues, which I hope will be further complemented and resolved by the movement in the third reading. In particular, I would like to point out here that certain issues have not now been dealt with most effectively in this proposal for the benefit of some individuals. Above all, I think - even in our parliamentary group, of course, because I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group - a little too much to lay down the difficult conditions for obtaining the licence as such. Personally, as well as the Group of Members, I find it difficult to imagine how anyone can start an activity under such difficult conditions. In fact, if we look at only the second condition, where it is written that this is an appropriate financial situation - I absolutely imagine that if someone has a suitable financial position, he will certainly not be dealing with road transport, where operating conditions are extremely difficult. Then there is, of course, a whole series of other conditions. One of these is certainly already the parking lot mentioned so many times today as a condition for licensing. We are firmly convinced, and other actors have convinced us that these issues can be resolved in a different way, but not immediately in the first document, which is being issued for start-up. These things can be resolved in other articles, otherwise, by appropriate organisation of the State, both in that additional Article 98, which was adopted on the Committee, and perhaps by supplementing or amending Article 116. In short, these things could be handled differently. However, in our Group of Members, we have assessed that things want to be resolved in some way, as is the custom in this country, on the line of least resistance. This is mainly because the system as such does not fully work. It also raises a great deal of questions as to what will happen if, for example, someone submits a licence application and a whole range of conditions are sufficient, of course, they also have to buy fixed assets, register them, pay registrations, then do not acquire, say, due to the removal of some other deficiencies, licenses, and transport assets, two or three, as far as they already have these means of transport, could not stand, could not operate and registration, and all costs were actually paid. I do not imagine which individual, entrepreneur or any major organisation can subsidise certain costs without obtaining any income or perhaps not receiving it at all if it does not meet these conditions. In short, this issue too should, according to our assessment, be resolved in a way that follows the adoption of this law. Many questions about permits were also mentioned. As far as we are aware and as far as we are aware, all those who are involved or involved in these divisions are also appreciating that these divisions are not yet well-designed enough for certain irregularities to continue to occur, and therefore we will also consider and support those amendments, where better transparency is sought and justice can be seen in all procedures and records, so that there will be as few disputes as possible, and also then poor will and therefore, as has already been the case, certain exacerbations and strikes. We also assess - at least we have obtained such data - that all those great manipulators, the socialist, if so called, on line transports and so on, according to our assessment, will not be sustained in the long term. However, they are trying to retain certain privileges or monopolies with this law, so we absolutely do not agree that certain provisions of this law are different in the case of carriers. We believe that these conditions should be exactly the same, not that for one type of carrier such conditions are different. This is how we hope that these things will continue to equalize, as this is also discriminatory, according to our assessment. In short, we will support all those amendments that will help to ensure that the situation in this area is managed for the benefit of all. However, we feel that if all these outstanding issues that have remained open are not resolved further, we will, in the third instance, either with concern or even with failure to support this law. Unless these matters are resolved, the law will not be effective and all these open issues and exacerbations, which have already been known in this area, will - in our opinion - continue to be the greatest damage to the entire community and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the basic objectives of the law and also the main solutions contained in the law. The treatment later showed that the law had a type of shortcomings, both editorial and substantive. We have therefore drawn up within the parliamentary group a number of comments that we can address in the following areas: the delimitation of powers between the Ministry and the Directorate, then questions about public line transport, then questions about the meaningful regulation of taxi service as a public service, and questions that have been raised regarding specific line transport. As regards the issue of parking spaces or the fulfilment of the conditions set out in Article 7(7) for carriers, the position of the Group of Members is different, but the view prevails that the condition of adequate parking arrangements should be maintained, otherwise this problem, which is real and actually present in the environment, cannot be resolved without adequate regulation in such a way that carriers provide these parking spaces during a transitional period. In view of the series of comments and amendments that are both substantive and editorial in nature, the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group fully supports the Committee's proposal for a decision to hold a general discussion of the bill and to give Members time until further discussion to prepare for a quality second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. The United List of Social Democrats supports the law. We will support all the amendments adopted or voted by the home committee and, of course, also the conclusions. Our support for the law is based on the following conclusion: it is one of the roofing, important laws relating to traffic in our country and relating to a coordinated approach to the European order, such as the important and important aviation law and the maritime code; it certainly disciplines an area that has evolved several times in the past, taking into account, irrespective of the prevailing situation, the alleged monopolies and the alleged privileges, some principle that speaks, with equal rights, also the same obligations for all those doing business in the field of road transport. It is also important that the conditions governing the acquisition of licences and all the conditions relating to the implementation of these activities be tightened. It is also important that he has certainly set up something here that means an ecological, environmental protection guard. Road traffic takes place not only in the two main directives on Corridor 5 and Corridor 10 routes, but in certain transport and economic centres. And, of course, they feel the greatest burden of this type of activity here, so it is right that the conditions are as strict here as possible. We do not agree with the nervousness that has sometimes accompanied the preparation of this law and the coordination of all interests. We are pleased, however, that all the interests that cross here and which will cross, of course, as far as the implementation of the law itself is concerned, have been included in the stages of the debate. I am counting on the fact that, after this first reading, we will be able to record those inadequacies and with appropriate corrections, if necessary, so we have also left the articles open with some amendments, including those shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations by representatives of the Group. No Member or Member has entered the debate in writing and the debate is now limited to 5 minutes. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The first thing I would say and argue is that this law is not in line with European guidelines, with European directives and is, in my opinion, inconsistent with European legislation. If I go in line. We've heard from the minister that this is one of the key laws or that the last, most important, is to close the transport chapter. I'm sure the minister had a difficult task of preparing this law in the form it is before us. I think the law as such is in general to support it. However, I am sure that in certain segments it is inconsistent with the guidelines - this is the statement that I put in place at the outset. I'm going to give you a concrete example that I'm not going to fuck around too much like a cat around hot porridge. It's enough to read paragraphs 31 and 48. Article 31 deals with specific line transport in inland road transport. Article 48 is a special line transport activity, which is said to be the same activity in international road transport. The fact that domestic carriers are said to be unable to carry out certain activities in Article 31 and that foreign operators covered by Article 48 have more rights - is said to be discriminatory to domestic carriers. See what can happen theoretically, but can also happen in practice. Someone who has a registered public transport activity in Šentil in the local environment, says in Slovenia, will not be able to carry out a special line transport. However, those who will have a similar activity reported 100 m across the border in Šentil Spielfeld, will be able to carry out special line transport activities in Slovenia. I'm speaking theoretically. But the way it works in marriage is you treat it on the theoretical side first, and then, if it's practical, it's feasible. Thus, foreign carriers will be able to provide more services in Slovenia than domestic ones. That's for me: first time, illogical. However, if it were different, I would ask if then the representatives of the Ministry would explain it to me and, of course, I apologize to them for this claim. But the law can also be read this way.If the intention was different, then please warn me to correct me. If this was just the intention of content, of course, it is right that we are discussing this today and, after careful consideration, we are also voting on the amendments and the additions that have been made. Because if I give you a concrete example. In Article 31, it is not possible to provide special line transport for students and students, while Article 48 for international transport - this is said to be possible for foreign carriers to do so with us. That's how the law makes sense. If that's not the case, of course you'll fix me. This means that this law protects monopolies, domestic monopolies, monopolies - those who have created monopolies will also be able to keep it. This, of course, also protects higher prices, acquired rights and prevents competition, prevents the free labour market, the free market for services and this is what is contrary to European guidelines. In fact, even so far this area has been very elegantly regulated. Rather, the monopolies had to give their consent if they accepted anyone else to carry out this activity. I mean, that's contrary to any free market logic. Every division of labour, if so expressed, or free movement of the market, labour and services is disabled. Now of course this is written a little differently, but the content remains the same - monopolistic for monopolies. It is true that the European Union might "burn" this law because, for other carriers, it is said outside of Slovenia, it will be allowed to provide this service and not to provide it at home. Maybe that's why they'll burn us down, maybe even thank us. However, because I think that the European Union does not make this difference between the country of origin and between the other countries, but looks like the Union as a whole or as an area as a whole, then this is not in line. Unless we outsmart them and, of course, cover it up somehow, that's not true. But you can hide for a while, and then it probably doesn't work anymore. I believe that Article 31 needs to be corrected, add - I will conclude immediately - the content that has already been proposed, I think even the two amendments foresee this. Because this is the only way we will allow a free market for services and jobs and allow competition, but not support monopolies and prevent competition, which is contrary to European guidelines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, then Mr Jože Ašič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister, representatives of the government! Maybe just one short or two questions or look at the whole law, which I think was in some ways very difficult to prepare, because there are also very different interests in this area. But I think that, above all, it is a reflection of the fact that for decades there has been a wrong transport policy in our country, which in some way has caused the situation we are in. But I would particularly like to touch on two questions, because I think you've been most exposed lately, even today quite a bit. One question is the conditions for parking. It would probably indeed indicate that in some way they would take full account of the criteria laid down in the European Union. In fact, I am interested in the fact that representatives of motorists have also repeatedly argued that the conditions laid down in our Regulation are significantly more acute than those of the European Union. And second, I think there are some very pressing issues: the distribution of permits in road transport. There have been several attempts in the National Assembly to resolve this issue and also which institution should share the permits. However, it has always been evident that in the distribution of licences there has been a wide range of "domestic" or "domestic" divisions. In this area, I am actually asking the question whether the law before us allows clear and transparent supervision that such manipulations will not occur in this area. In fact, in practice, at least from the environment from which I come, I have several complaints that they are in various possible attempts, whose institutions they will - and I will not list them - and which have carried out the distribution of permits in international road transport, that there have been speculations, particularly in that some major car carriers could then sell these permits to smaller and similar ones. I think that the law should, above all, make order in this area, in the sense that it should also be as close as possible to the fair way in which licences are distributed. I also do not agree with the fact that in some way the law would restrict the possibility of carrying out auto-transport in our country. I'm sure it has to be done by healthy competition. Of course, the issue of the large number of car carriers I do not think is a question of resolving this law, but of the entire transport policy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much and very much! So, once we started the first hearing on the Infrastructure Committee, we probably all were aware that this law was an extremely important substance, a large segment of the economy in the field of transport of goods and services, and we were also aware that the procedure proposed would be a quick procedure, rather a more thorough discussion on some of the areas that have already been discussed today. In this particular and first place, I may even be putting parking as a problem where we are likely to have quite a meeting in the course of the current debate. It was expected, and this has also happened, of course, that those organisations that are directly dependent on the law will be actively involved in the debate and preparation of the amendments, as this law provides them with a manner and conditions of operation. Here are the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Slovenia. At the same time, it was hoped that other organisations such as the Automobiles Union and the like would be involved in the debate. Well, that's what happened. However, we were unanimous, almost unanimous in the Committee, that the law is at the same time extremely important because of our tasks in harmonising legislation with the norms of the European Union. That is why we have decided to proceed quickly and in this swift process, of course, we have tried to resolve all the essential dilemmas offered by the law. Just for these reasons, because the law is moving quickly, I have also decided to listen to some of the arguments of some groups that have proposed different solutions than the law offers, particularly because of the problems that have already arisen in certain areas. Parking problem. I myself have hesitated in this Article 7, which, of course, will be a lot of talk as we consider the second reading of the amendment. However, on the basis of some internal provocation, I have also tabled an amendment to open up the problem of regulating parking spaces at the level of government measures, including those ministries which are co-responsible, as well as local communities, which are responsible for resolving this problem. All of this can be arranged. The easiest way to deal with a contract is because it does not say anywhere that this contract will be controlled then that it will not be the owner of the parking lots it has, say ten times, concluded a contract for 100 vehicles with 10 or more possible motorists. But the condition will be satisfied. In this I saw the purpose of the amendment, which is to determine the line or which should at least trigger measures to make this area different in Slovenia. Problems such as obtaining parking permits are nothing less than obtaining permits for municipal landfills, for incinerators, for roads and the like. Always, whoever wants to do anything today, comes across the problem of the agricultural land law and the change in the destination of agricultural land. It encounters environmental problems, where there is a whole series of traps that can cause the permit not to be obtained, even in the long run. He could run into a misunderstanding of the neighborhood where this parking lot was supposed to be arranged. This requires and will require a complex programme to solve these problems in Slovenia. They're problems and they're big. This law does not even solve another part that is pointed out by motorists when they say they will be in an unequal position primarily with foreign motorists. We don't have enough public parking spaces and foreign motorists, at least in border areas, park anywhere when it's - Has it already passed? It's been a while, I'm sorry. Let me finish this thought - no driving. They are parked in areas where they do not interfere with traffic, but where there is no warning that parking is prohibited. For this reason, I believe that the implementation of this will require a further amendment to three different laws, including the Road Traffic Safety Act, where it will be stated that vehicles can park in the designated places alone. Thank you. I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. The general debate is closed. [[...]] Between the lines, I think that the chairman of the committee, Mr Gerencher, has made a wish that, at this stage, the National Assembly today in this law, given that we do not yet have the reports on the benches, nor the examination of the amendments by Mr Gerencher, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I propose, however, that we conclude the general debate because the report is not yet ready and also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	It's closed, Mr. Gerencher. We've closed the general debate, so I'm asking if you'll excuse me. I'm adjourning the session for 10 minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Let's figure out how to proceed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	and to agree on the stage at which the report and amendments are prepared. [[...]] We continue our work 10 in 12.00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	More than five minutes have passed since we agreed to proceed with the meeting. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. After the first determination of our presence, there are 41 of us in the hall. Before the second determination of presence, I kindly ask you to look at the neighbors' seats, because I do not think that this number reflects the actual situation in the hall either. I'm picking up the presence, another time. There are 37 Members and Members present, which means that the Assembly of State is inconclusive and cannot make a valid decision at this time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting for ten minutes. We will continue our work at 12.30 p.m. when we have our third presence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Dear colleagues! It's 12:30, and we're moving on to the adjourned part of our session. That's the third time we've detected presence. Please insert the cards. There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Following a review of the fulfilment or non-compliance of the formal conditions for the continuation of the second reading of the interrupted point, point 6, I note that Members and Members on the bench do not yet have a report of the parent working body, nor is a review of the amendments prepared, which is not the reason that the formal conditions are not met. We have therefore concluded the general discussion and thus the first hearing, thus ending the 6th item of the agenda after the general debate has been concluded. As was the agreement in college, we continue and move on to 16. It's a day's work. I thank the representatives of the government for their presence. A general discussion is still open at the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Collections. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a law on public meetings and moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of the Law on Public Collections - the first reading - is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 30 votes against none. [[The vote was 30.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Representatives of the government have joined us, and I welcome them very much. We are moving on to a debate on the positions of the mother's working body, which are recorded in the labour body report, as well as the discussion on complementary proposals for the position of the parent working body, which you received on the bench. We have quite a few complementary suggestions, I think we got them on bench six. However, the position of the parent’s working body is found in the report. Complementary proposals for these views are on the table. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to decide on complementary proposals for the position of the parent working body. First of all, I am putting to the vote a supplementary proposal, the proposal of which is the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group [[This is the only complementary proposal of this parliamentary group]] . We are voting on this complementary proposal. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 24. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the complementary proposal of the New Slovenia Group has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal of the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Since these proposals are two, we are now deciding on a proposal with a shorter text. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 25. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the supplementary proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal of the same proposer with a longer text. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 27. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has not been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the complementary proposal tabled by the mag. Majda Potter. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 6. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal, which is a'recast proposal', which is proposed by the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party, and should be a 'complementary' rather than a'recast', because the content does not refer to changing the positions of the parent working body. Two complementary proposals were tabled by the Group of Members. First, we decide on an additional proposal in a longer text. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 5. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the supplementary proposal is adopted under one. We are still voting on the complementary proposal under two. We're voting. Procedural proposal? Mr. Cuckoo, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Given that our proposals have been rejected, there is a substantive matter in them, which also relates to other proposals, I ask on behalf of the parliamentary group for a half break for consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Sorry, Mr Sugar, we are in the voting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	We have another complementary proposal, we have another one, we are now in the voting phase on the complementary proposal under two.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	When you announced the next item, I raised my hand right before we went to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	I'm sorry we missed you. We'll continue our work at 13.20. Excuse me, 13/10, not 20. At 1:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It was decided to continue our work at 13.10. It's 13:13. Therefore, please, those who are nearby to join us, because we will determine the presence politely please check with your neighbors that they do not have any card inserted, but they are not present. After the interruption requested by Mr Tsukati, the Slovenian People's Party under 2 agree before deciding on the proposal by the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party under 2 on how they will vote to determine their presence. 42 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly shall not be able to decide the decisions in force. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the second determination shall be established immediately after the first determination. There's still a few of you here, so I respectfully ask you to insert the cards because next time we'll be able to determine the presence. In my second statement of attendance, I can conclude that 41 of us are present, which means that the National Assembly is not concluded and cannot make a valid decision. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to determine the third time we are present after ten minutes, which means that we will be able to determine the third presence at 13.25 a.m. The possible absence of the unwarranted means financial consequences for the absent. Thank you very much. We'll pick it up at 13.24.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	Your Honor! This is the third time we've detected presence! There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. Allow me just to inform you that, of course, since we do not have completed at least 20 items of the agenda, we are obliged to take this decision to the next meeting. Unless we adopt this decision today at 2 p.m. due to non-conclusion, we will have to continue our session on Tuesday. Because the condition is that we close the meeting today. By politely asking all those who are not excused to endure until 2 p.m. We have ended by allowing the Group of Members, on a proposal from Mr Cukjat, half an hour to consult before deciding on the second complementary proposal, which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Sugar, would you like to explain your explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	In view of the fact that the issue of copyright is regulated in another law and actually falls within the contractual relationship of the third party, which is not in the procedure of public assembly approval, we consider that this requirement is unnecessary or even harmful, that the applicant should also submit the relevant contracts or arrangements with the collective organisation for the protection of copyright. This would also make the whole process more difficult and bureaucratic. With regard to the other problems that we wanted to harmonise in this regard, I hope that in the second reading we will also be able to influence the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the second complementary proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group. We're voting! There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 35. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the second supplementary proposal has not been adopted. We are also moving on to a decision on the last, complementary proposal that you have specifically on the list, which is also referred to by the SLS+SKD Group of Members, which is also defined by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 18. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are also moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions of the parent working body. [[Deals from the bench.]] Your Honor, please, let's stop arguing. Please, Your Honor, take a look at the neighbors' cards that may have been filed, but they're not here. In the last vote, I don't think we've been in a position to make any decisions either. Respected and respected, if anyone is in the hall, join us. We only need to adopt one more decision and a decision on the continuation of the meeting or the transfer of the points to the next meeting, so I kindly ask that we do so today. We are still moving on to a decision on the proposal for the views of the mother's labour body as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposals are fully adopted. Procedural proposal, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	In voting on the two amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, we were not concluding and would ask that it be repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	We will vote on Mr Cukjati's procedural proposal to repeat the vote on My apologies, which is no reason to repeat the vote. [[...]] The reason for the repetition is only if the Member is mistaken and immediately after the vote. So there is no reason to accept such a proposal. We are also obliged to vote on the additional proposal for a decision prepared by the mother labour body, namely that the proposer prepares for the second reading of the proposal for a law on public gatherings a review of all the obligations that the organiser of the public event must fulfil under other rules and a review of those rules. Does he wish to discuss this additional proposed decision? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. Allow me while the National Assembly is still adjourned. But that doesn't mean we'll be done before 2:00. Yes, we'll continue our work by 2 p.m. However, do you allow the Procedural Proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the middle of my previous term of office, I have repeatedly said that it is unlikely that the conduct of the assembly would be worse than at some point and that it would not be possible to move five or ten points from one meeting to the next. It is clear that the beginning of this mandate is already worse than it was then. Because what's happening now is a disaster. I suggest that this is the last time that the leadership of the National Assembly and colleagues cannot assess what we can do in 10 days. If you don't know how to evaluate this, then I wonder why we're even here and if we haven't made a mistake when we've chosen such a leadership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, this wasn't a procedural proposal. We're moving to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SECRET DATA LEGISLATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Our Group proposes that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we take the decision to return the draft law on secret additives to the first reading or to reopen the first hearing. This is because of this - as you have been informed by the means of public information and as our Group of Members warned the press conference - because the law has not yet been completed, because in some areas, particularly in the areas of security verification, there are great inconsistencies or consistent solutions. For this reason, we propose that the first hearing be re-examined in this law. Of course, we are aware that the law is substantively necessary as a condition for joining NATO. Because of this, our proposal is not taken as if we are trying to stall. It is true that we will lose perhaps a month, but we believe that the area of security verification is so important and that it is also important for human rights and personal data that this area should be significantly better resolved and more in agreement with European solutions. For this reason, I propose, as I have already mentioned, that we vote or suggest that this law is not being dealt with in the second reading today and that the debate be returned, on the basis of business arrangements, to the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 180, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group, you have proposed that the draft law on classified information be reopened. Does anyone want a word about this? Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members! I would like to stress the particular importance of this law for our integration into the European Union and for the adoption of NATO's recommendations or standards, and our related responsibility to prepare and adopt the law as soon as possible. That is why we have dealt with this marriage text very thoroughly and with all professional responsibility. Last but not least, even with an argument that the honourable Member himself mentioned, because it is a sensitive area of possible interference with human rights or the regulation of issues that are regulated at the fundamental constitutional level. The argument that we have taken a very thorough approach to this issue is also this publication, which was based on a public presentation of opinions on the draft law on classified information, where everything Slovenian profession and science in this field knows where we have attracted the participation of Slovenia's most prominent experts in this field, and you can read their opinions. I believe that you, the one interested in this, have deepened into this. This expert elaboration, a public presentation, including the drawing up of opinions on individual issues between experts, has led to the solutions that we have proposed for the second reading. Our firm belief is that these solutions are good, that they are based on the findings of the profession, are not constitutionally controversial, and we are prepared to discuss, justify and argue this. However, on behalf of the Government, I would suggest that we continue to discuss in the second reading, especially because we have received amendments from the Social Democratic Party during this time and have been identified by the government and has a positive opinion on some amendments, as proposed. I think we could find a common language, but let's go to the debate and try to show it with reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Can representatives of the parliamentary groups also give an opinion on this proposal? If they don't want to, we will be discussing the proposal of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group to re-examine the draft law on classified information - but in the second stage of the hearing - we will vote if we ensure the conclusion of the national assembly. Mr. Lavrinc, a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	No, no, no. If I have understood correctly, can this proposal be identified on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	That's it. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	Then, on behalf of the LDS Group, I would like to express my surprise at such a procedural proposal, because the law has not been in place since yesterday and has been under consideration for a long time. He had a public presentation where anyone who wanted to, could and knew, could explain their views. I would only point out the last sentence - I am correcting - the last sentence in the Committee's report, where the Committee decided not to meet again, because all concepts were sufficiently clear in the public presentation of opinions. I therefore do not believe that the Group of Members can support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. We're voting. I'm sorry. We have just counted people in order to truly ensure the legitimacy of our vote. There are 46 of us in the hall, so I kindly tell you that by drawing the card you are here, you are causing the indiscretion of this assembly. There are 47 of us in the hall. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 38. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	Madam Vice President! Given how this conundrum moves, it's almost, I think, pointless to start this point because we're not going to do anything. It makes sense for us to transfer everything by decision to the 7th regular meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-01-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Mr Brenčič's procedural proposal that the national assembly should end prematurely by giving work to respectable colleagues and colleagues for a vote. We're voting. There are 47 of us counting in this hall. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I apologize for my assessment, but I think that, given our position in this country, we are acting absolutely and utterly unserious. [[A voice from behind.]] Yes, he did. We are determined, which every so long we also count on the natural path in this hall. Thank you so much for your kindness. On Mr Brenčič's procedural proposal that the National Assembly, following the adoption of the decision on the transfer of points to the next meeting, conclude today's work so as not to interrupt the presentation of the proposal for a law on classified information. We are voting on this procedural proposal. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 11. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal to end work prematurely after the adoption of the decision, which I will propose below, has been adopted, so that I thank the representative of the Government, Mr Minister. I think it is good that he will be able to present in full at the next meeting a proposal for a law on classified information. Your Honor! I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: 6, 17, 19, 20 and 29 to 37. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to the next meeting of the assembly to be held on 19 June 2001. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representatives of the parliamentary groups may present their position and the debate of the Members is not possible. Would the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? Since no, I conclude the debate we are voting on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much and good-bye.
