ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Leopold Grošelj, Alojz Peterle, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Stanislav Brenčič, Anton Delak, Dorian Marsič, Cyril Pucko, Milan Kopushar, Richard Beumann, Bogdan Barovic, Sonja Areh Lavrič, mag. Janez Petty Officer, Ferry Horvat, mag. Janez Kramberger for the beginning of the session, Villa Trofenik, Roberto Battelli, Ivan Bozič until 11.00 p.m., Janez Janša, Pavel Rupar, Franc Pukšič, Franc Sušnik, Bogomir Zamernik, Bogomir Vnučec, Bojan Kontič until 11.00 p.m., Jožef Kavtičnik, Jelko Kacin from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Geza Juban for the start of the session, Josef Školč for the start of the session, Andrej Gerenčer from 13.00 p.m. and Miran Jerič. Please insert the cards so you can check the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. Please press "quorum." There are 48 of us present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting and welcome everyone. I would like to inform you that this morning we had a working conversation with the President of the National Assembly and agreed to continue the 7th Regular Session. It was agreed that the National Assembly would meet today until 2 p.m., then end the meeting and continue on Tuesday, 17 July at 2 p.m. So today we interrupt and continue on Tuesday, July 17th at 2 p.m., and then July 18th and 19th from 10:00 to 6:00 p.m. on Friday, July 19th between 10:00 and 2:00 p.m. If we fail to complete these 17 points at this time, we will continue, if necessary, 24.7. and by the end of the week, if necessary, by Friday, 27 July. At the same time, it was agreed that the government should be invited to submit to the National Assembly by Friday, 13 July at 12.00 p.m. a proposal on matters that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to adopt definitively by the beginning of the autumn session, saying the most urgent matters. And in this case, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, we would decide when these matters would, of course, be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting in July. We agreed that those urgent points that the government believes are really urgent, urgent, to say the least, would be done immediately after the conclusion of this meeting. So, we are normally working forward when this meeting is over, there will be an extraordinary session where only those points that are really the most urgent. We have extensive work to do, and I propose that we take into account this remarkable scale that we have before us so that the meeting does not take place in August. It's a little bit up to us. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the hearing of the 36th session. POINTS OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE PROPOSAL OF THE NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR THE SAFETY OF ROAD TRANSPORT IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, AND THEN TO THE TREATMENT OF THE 37TH POINT, THIS IS THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE MOVEMENTAL FUND OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, AND OF COURSELY THEN IN THE ORDER. They signed up for the debate in writing. I've got Excuse me here. [[...]] Is one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups possible? Good. Then Mr Celigoy on behalf of the DeSUS, Mr Christmas on behalf of the People's Party, Mrs Potrate. Let's go in this order. For the time being, I have only one written application from an individual Member. Please, Mr. Celigoy, if you can present your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! In the DeSUS Group, we accept the proposal for a national road safety programme. However, we also have some thought and some critical thought. The main objective of the national programme is certainly to increase safety on our roads and to significantly reduce the number of dead. That the programme is sufficiently ambitious, already used adjectives speak in the introduction, as "the work must be done systematically, professionally, in a coordinated, successful, efficient, rational and continuous manner". Is that a guarantee of success? Traffic accident analysis identifies speed and alcohol as the most common cause of accidents. Unfortunately, we also miss the other causes, which directly or indirectly also cause too many accidents on our roads. The pedestrians are by far the largest group of road users and are at the same time the least protected group. In fact, the statistics on pedestrian danger are the most alarming. Within these groups, the oldest pedestrians are extremely endangered. If between 7 and 44 years of age and one fatality per 10,000 population, deaths are tripled in the age group up to 54 years of age. By the age of 64, even the number of the dead. And after 65, it's almost 11 dead per 10,000 inhabitants. Nowhere else has we seen that these endangered groups have been given special care, special programs. Similarly, there are cyclists who are once again at great risk for participants over 54 years of age and over 65 years of age. We also miss actions here to protect older cyclists, although we are aware that there are many of them who are putting themselves at risk by their behaviour. Interestingly, however, a group of older motor vehicle drivers is the safest and experienced group, with the least accidents. Surely older motor vehicle drivers are much more aware of their abilities and responsibilities and are more objective in assessing their abilities. It might also suggest moving the age limit of drivers and mandatory medical examinations in older years. Among the key organisational and functional problems identified, we find a whole range of problems that organised society such as ours cannot truly be honoured. Let me list some of these: insufficient social support, inadequate liability, inadequate and ineffective structure of national and local authorities in the field of transport security, inadequate performance of tasks, lack of financial resources, insufficient data system and lack of adequate research. All of this shows that we are still far from well organised in solving this problem and achieving the objectives set, which raises a big question for the whole project. In addition to organizational changes, will the organisation of the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Board in the following year bring all the other changes that we are expecting? Only one party is dedicated to transport safety education and training in the national programme, although we are all aware that this is an extremely important part of the effort to achieve the objectives set. We believe that this is where the success of the current world or national road safety organisation, which is expected to take place next year, is the key. The ambitious goal that follows from this programme is to halve the number of deaths on our roads, and there is an important reason enough for our Group to support this national programme. I would also support it if only one life were saved as a result of these efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Bozič, on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, there are not many of us in the hall when we speak of such a great and important marriage. If we want to reduce the number of victims in road accidents in Slovenia by half, then we should be more serious and we should be more present in such a law when it comes to dealing with and accepting. We support it in our parliamentary group and will also vote in favour of its adoption at first reading. We will also later be involved in addressing all the amendments and the comments we will receive from any side. However, there are two things that still need to be addressed, and it is only right that we take little account in the preparation of the law for the second treatment. We listed four ministries, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but little, we think it is written about the work of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In fact, nothing helps us to see that we have many accidents in young people. Of course, 40 years ago, when the motorization of Slovenia began, the vehicles had older people, not young people, and this must be taken into account. But education must bring up a child, a young man, a teenager, in the thought and conduct that he is always threatened by others on the road and by himself. Last time we stopped talking and put alcohol first in Slovenia. That's not true. True, high speed is the cause of almost all accidents and irresponsible behavior. Even today, when I came a hundred kilometers away from Tolmin to Ljubljana, I saw a whole bunch of things that don't belong to the behavior of the driver on the road. And I'm looking at it, and you're looking at it, we're 90 people coming to parliament, but we're not called bad drivers, and we're 90. So it is necessary to raise a young man to be able to behave on the road. And he's got to be told that the speed goes to the racetracks, to the places where the terrain is suitable for high speed, not to our roads, where the yamarsik is 60 kilometers per hour too much. And another thing we'd like to complement, and we think it will be complemented by traffic control on our roads. Because I live, and I have said many times in this Chamber, at the western border of our national space, from Ljubljana to Tolmin is a hundred kilometers, and several thousand to Rome, but if I drive to Rome, I will see less police controls on the roads than we do. Something else will have to be done. It is necessary to achieve discipline, self-discipline, but not just control on roads that discourages all foreigners coming to our places, because they say, "We cannot imagine Slovenia, which is beautiful, with so many police controls." In doing so, I think that the amendment we tabled and signed by a lot of Members is a serious remark that something needs to be considered in this area. And I'll point it out again. The Ministry of Education is responsible for raising young people in schools so that they can behave on the roads. It's not just a driver's license, it's not like they need to be given anything else. However, the Ministry of the Interior should consider controlling traffic, which should be such that it does not have too much impact on all road users. We will also support the bill, i.e. the SLS + SKD Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Joint List, Mrs Potrata. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats supports the proposal for a national road safety route in the Republic of Slovenia and also supports both decisions of the Internal Policy Committee. Since the second decision of the Committee also points out to the applicant the comments made in the debate and the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, allow me to hold only for reasons of support. There's four of them. The proposal fulfils the requirement of Article 5(3) of the Road Safety Act, which states: the Republic of Slovenia shall establish a national road safety programme. The proposal, we consider, is also designed to provide strategic support for the law. Another time. Since the programme aims to identify key carriers and deadlines for the implementation of concrete tasks that will improve transport safety and to address problems that impede the overall provision of road safety, the programme is divided into two stages, a two-year preparatory period followed by a period of implementation of concrete safety measures from 2004 onwards, a strategic direction that also allows the programme to be implemented. Third time. The aim of the programme is to reduce the number of dead in traffic accidents by half. The immeasurable damage that we suffer each year because of every life lost and damaged on our roads has been a warning to all those responsible and to every individual in recent years, despite the slow decline. Therefore, highlighting the education and education of all actors in transport and the necessity of personal identification with problems and creating accountability and solidarity among all actors in transport is of paramount importance, as they give priority to prevention, which should include the construction of transport infrastructure and traffic mitigation measures, as a result of the most vulnerable groups of participants. Fourthly, because we are aware that the programme must take into account the situation and possibilities and address the problems of traffic safety from different angles, we will therefore support the proposal of the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Have we thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups? [[Yeah.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I only have one written application here - Dr. Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the government! The New Slovenia Group has tabled a proposal for the text of the national programme you received on the table and I hope you can read it. The draft of this programme is extremely extensive, technically good and precisely designed, as far as I can judge by my modest technical capabilities. Some forerunners have already warned of certain shortcomings, but I will remind myself of one more if you allow it, and that is courtesy on the road. Since you've got our thinking on this thing, I'm not going through all the points, but I would like to point out that the emphasis in this programme is on the technical safety side. I heard that years ago, in the postwar age, after our citizens got to the cars, they had to prove on exams that they knew the engine and I don't know what it was. But nowhere did I find anyone to teach what is the image and responsibility of the road. That's what we know today. A friend from Argentina, who was an Argentine who was here, I can tell you, he did not dare to drive in Slovenia; I did not hope to drive in Argentina on my own. In fact, when I asked him why, he said, the unpredictability of your drivers. But it's a little different in Argentina. But there's, as I say, chaotic predictability of drivers. That is to say, if you observe for a while, you will see what cacaotic manners they have, and adapt to them. We don't have that. Therefore, I think that the emphasis in this programme should be on the person, on the driver, this is what I miss in the programme. As Mr Bozič has already mentioned, the Ministry of Education has been mentioned several times, but never in the sense that I am talking about. Here the school should have an extremely large role for the civil education of young people. And not only for raising young people in road transport, but also in other areas of our society. In the United States, it is said that road safety has increased after young students in secondary schools have been given the opportunity to learn driving in schools themselves. And this began to be known, because the school gave them the right dimensions, not only technical ones, but also educational ones. But the whole thing is that although we probably can't afford it yet, because it requires a lot of financial investment and, of course, acceptance of such education by school authorities. I don't think we're there yet. So, like I said, I miss the emphasis on raising young people and all the sectors of our society. I wonder, yesterday we heard that the subject is slightly renamed, i.e. civic education and ethics. I wonder if there is anything in this case about road safety, the raising of young people to be responsible for other people and so on. I am surprised to learn that the writers of this program have completely overlooked this aspect. Our New Slovenia party will support this programme, but we want to include what I have been talking about, because this will improve not only road safety, but also highlight the responsibility of the person to his fellow human being, a co-owner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. These were written statements or were written statements for the discussion. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to 5 minutes. Mr Lavrinc has the floor first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. In particular, I would like to comment on the additional proposals. First, I would support the content that the two conclusions actually make, otherwise each in its own way, but it is the same content, they contain. This is that it is necessary to allow young drivers, for example, to come to school safe driving, to learn after the exam has actually been done. The second is that only in this way can it be ensured, let us say, if one or more polygons were to come up there to really train people. That was already said here yesterday. Look, someone's doing a midsummer exam and he's getting ready for a midsummer exam, there's a winter situation, he has no idea, and, of course, he's learning it properly on the road and he's endangering himself and the others. That is why I am thinking in this direction that I would suggest to the applicants of the two conclusions that they should in some way rephrase them as a commitment to the government, as far as it is possible to put this into the programme itself, that, for example, the State should endeavour to do so or that such decisions should be taken at the end when we adopt a final document that will be cleared of what has been pointed out, in short, that it will be able to publish in the Official Journal, so that the National Assembly will then define itself on this topic. I think that even in this area - so this is only going to be a declaration decision by the national assembly or by the state, that this is, I'll say, some polygon or more polygons that are welcome in this country. In local communities, private initiatives, etc. And, of course, how capable they are. Otherwise, in this part, I'd say I don't think there's much going on in our schools. I even think there's a lot of work in schools for kids to learn about traffic. I have three of my own, so I know how it looks. But it's never too much. That's how you need to understand these things. So it's possible for children besides what they're doing now, so when they end up having that test that they can also, I don't know, with some different competitions - I remember the past - about knowing about road rules, about skills driving, etc. This can also help me to complement what is already being done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government and of the colleague and colleagues! I would continue or fully agree with the predecessor with regard to the polygons or with regard to this provision of the necessary infrastructure for the implementation of the form of practical education. Therefore, we have also prepared a supplementary proposal in the Social Democratic Party, which is that the National Assembly should propose to the Government that for the second reading or second reading of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme in the Republic of Slovenia be completed in chapter 8, "education and training", in the sense of a thorough and comprehensive overhaul of the practical training of future drivers of motor vehicles and young drivers, with a focus on safe driving techniques. We are convinced that this national programme is part of a strategy for the need for staff and adequate infrastructure for such education, as this can be a good basis for the actual creation of infrastructure and the application of these, as I see, of a uniform view of the practical part of this education. We therefore propose that in this context, the government commits itself to complementing this and, somehow, creates the conditions for building this infrastructure as well as, of course, the staff for which we all see that it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister, would you have waited long enough for the Members and Members to finish, and then perhaps you would have added another one of the Members and Members in the end? [[...]] Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In principle, I certainly personally support this national programme. However, somehow, with all these documents that I have read now, and even with what my distinguished colleagues and colleagues have said, I wonder whether this national programme covers everything that should be in a programme and whether things are properly set up. With this thought, I am no longer on the side of all those who praise this program. In fact, I do not think that there is anything in this document about how much I have read it, that in Slovenia in the last 15 years there may have been a revolution in traffic, and that Slovenia in certain areas has not been prepared, or that the authority that created politics in all these areas, including transport policy, has not been prepared for this. Indeed, we are by the number of cars and all other means of transport in the very top of Europe, if I am not mistaken. Or perhaps even a developed Europe. Our infrastructure is not ready for this, ladies and gentlemen. Our infrastructure is therefore not ready. I was most stabbed in the eye by this when I saw that, say, Sweden and Britain are the safest countries with 65, 64 dead per million inhabitants. Yes, dear friends. I hope you've ever been to any of these countries. I happened to be in Sweden, Norway, and I was on these roads, and I saw. There's an infrastructure there that's different from ours. You have a very rare population there, of course you know that the country is rarely inhabited in certain areas. But the roads are extremely wide. In each settlement there are wide sidewalks and wide cycling paths on both sides of the road. Do we have this provision in our country? No, we don't. And these are the main causes of our accidents. These are the main reasons why we have not approached the implementation of other projects in a timely manner, so to speak, the implementation of infrastructure that would allow for fairly safe transport. As crowded as we have in the settlements, it's nowhere, as far as I've been driving, far and wide. And logically, that's the reason that causes accidents. How are the sidewalks with us? We don't even have them in the settlements. If we have them, we only have them on one side, and that's purely narrow, of course, because there's no room. I know there's no room. Therefore, all settlements need to be surrounded. This is essential for the main traffic to pass by the settlement, but internal traffic will already be settled with those roads that exist there. These are the main problems. I don't know if this is part of this national programme, but there's not a word about it. But I think at least a sentence should be said. If I keep talking about other things. There are hundreds and hundreds and thousands of critical points on our roads. I see them myself, I ride my bike, and I see what's going on, and how dangerous it is. And it's strange that there's no more accidents. The contact of asphalt with macadam, with the bank - there is also a height difference of ten centimeters and more. And how can someone with a bike back off now, when a tow truck goes in front of him or behind him, how to get away, by chance listens to seduction to a bank that's either way out of order, and then tries to roll back onto the asphalt road. That's absurd, gentlemen! Absurd. These are impossible conditions. Not to mention all these holes on the roads, which are very dangerous for everyone, untouched, then on the bridge narrows all over Slovenia huge, and on these gaps, the bends are impossible to process and no one wants to upgrade them, there is a bend, I don't know why there is already, because the macadam road was once and they did then asphalt, of course, and it is often seen that there is not much that we can do just a little straightening out, but we could solve these things. No, the curve behind the curve, and that's how it has to be, so that the road goes down that road, [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Which went a hundred years ago possible when people were driving cars and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Mr. Kelemina!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	And that's what causes us, in my opinion, the most disasters, of course, in addition to other elements, other factors, for sure. But I think it's also crucial, and there's not even one word spoken or even more spoken about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Mr. Kelemina, I'm going to have to take your word. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Excuse me! I forgot I only have five minutes. Excuse me! I just wanted to say, if I may say so, I absolutely disagree with the fact that you wrote here that more than 210 dead people on our roads in 2005 should not be. I will not support such a national programme, with such a high number of dead. I won't support it, and if there's a chance, I'll be in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask if it's five minutes. It's five minutes. From now on, I'm going to allow myself a lot of shame to turn off the microphone in five minutes. I'm sorry, but we agreed in five minutes. Next up is Mrs. Stoparova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to all of us! Allow me to take two minutes of your time on this pleasant Friday and join the debate myself. I strongly support the national road safety programme. Indeed, it is in this area that we have been greatly affected by the time, precisely by the development of motorization and the enormous traffic that we experience and also have on our roads. I also live alone in an area where I observe this traffic daily in an area that is also known for its black spots along the main road, only 3 m of my own yard. That is why it seems so much more urgent for us to really define these tasks in this four-year period, as is the case with our national programme, which is very well placed. There are more black points like this in Slovenia. It is good that the national programme connects several ministries. Regrettably, these ministries, which, through their programmes, enter into jurisdiction in this area, are the most financially burdened. And I think or my fear is expressed right here, whether we will be able financially to do what we have to cut down on all our roads to really ensure security for everyone, that is to say human, child and all those most exposed. So I wonder if we are able to really implement your and our programme, because experience shows exactly in the road area that this year we are only implementing 47% of last year's national road construction programme. At the same time, I hope I still have so much time to warn you about something else. There are a lot of things that are done in road transport education schools. However, according to experience and observations, I would say that in this program we need to give an even greater place to our family, parents, because during the most tender period of time they are the only example of a child’s safe and proper behavior on the road. So it's for your own safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please. Mr. Kelemina has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to replicate in the part where she mentioned or wondered more about whether we are financially capable, in particular in some departments, of providing funds for more efficient or thus contributing to safe transport. Here I would like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely your political option that you have been now in the last years from - just look at the budgets of the last years - from the road programmes, said to be from the Ministry of Transport, to reduce funds for various investments, to restore these critical points, so that I will not speak now, have substantially reduced all the years. Substantially reduced, so in fact you are making our children and our people's safety and destiny on our roads. Since you do not provide sufficient, sufficient budgetary resources to address these critical points. Yeah, that's basic. Please. You're defending some views and you'd like to do some things in principle, but in practice you don't want to do these things. That's the main problem. Why these road investment programs have been so distorted lately. This is absurd and here I would ask you, here I would ask you to then also keep this principled attitude in the budget and that in the next period, if it has not been possible so far, a budget is being prepared for the next two years, if I am not mistaken, let it influence your political February, to realize this desire and also mine and all of us, citizens and also all of us who are harmed in such a way or other, to devote more resources for these purposes. I hope you make it. And I wish you good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! At first, I didn't really want to come by, but I would like to point out one thing. This means that the national programme, such as it is, identifies the carriers in particular, the hands and the specific projects. I agree and believe that the warnings given by my colleagues about certain shortcomings or warnings as to what else should be done in this programme, that they are appropriate, but that if we go through the programme, there is a methodology for the design of these projects and concrete projects. And I believe that these projects will then specify individual measures, the common objective of which is, and should be, to reduce the number of accidents and the number of deaths on our roads. The initiative on the construction of polygons and safe driving, I think it's appropriate and correct. Of course, I'm wondering who's going to finance this. If we decide in this National Assembly that we will complement all these components into the national programme, financial resources will also have to be allocated in the future to build these ranges, where young drivers will, of course, learn safe driving techniques in all circumstances. Although I don't know how it works in the world or within the country of some associations, I know about the BMW plant, which is wholly owned by BMW and, of course, the state and institutions have nothing to do with this. I agree, however, that at this initial stage we would support this content and further consider how to reach these polygons and how many to be in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I personally support the national programme proposal on my behalf. I think my fellow Members also support our party. I just want to say a lot of things, but I would just like to stress prevention and education in particular. First of all, there's a home environment here that affects when a child takes his first steps, how he'll cross the road, where he'll look. The first thing he does is he starts at home. Trno's path, here I think, has already started a world for prevention and road transport education, where they teach students the first steps or students of basic schools of traffic regulations and other things with different cycling courses; they are taught by both driving and preventive safety and everything else. Then it starts in high school. There is a big problem here, because the school is supposed to provide certain standards in education, which I think are not. So, first of all, auto schools are supposed to have some places where motor vehicles or cars are supposed to start their first steps. This usually happens in some city parking lots or in the city. A typical example is that our school is in Roška, not to say almost in the center of the city where the exam begins at all. So we should put all this stuff somewhere near the edges. That is why I also support the proposal I have heard here, about some sort of safe driving range, where future drivers would learn their first steps. That would be far from the city, far from the city streets and, of course, from the traffic. However, this range would be needed not only for drivers of passenger cars, but also for motorists and truck drivers, because we know that once the truck is found on an icy road or whatever else, we know what happens, we know what accidents are like on Black Kal, where it is not a faulty road, but especially the unadjusted speed of drivers. In fact, all too many young people are racing on our roads. We know the racetracks, both in Italy, Austria, Germany, and I think that Grobnik, where you put 100 marks, destroy the tires on the car and that's all. You don't hurt anyone else. You may also need to think about building a racetrack where young people would release their adrenaline in this way. And there's another interesting thing. Two days ago, friends came from Canada. They drove from Budapest to Ljubljana and said that roads in Slovenia were unbearable, that they were afraid of driving on Slovenian roads. It's just to think about the situation on our roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I supported this myself, but so that it would not be misunderstood - no one expects the country to invest. Here it is only necessary - that is, I imagined this in particular, as far as a declaration provision can be included in the national programme, that the state supports it, such activity, or else I see here primarily a private initiative, a capital that will also serve it. This was meant, not for some of the state’s ranges to be made around this country. But it's true that "high" to these high schools, which my predecessor used to say was going to have to tighten up there, even now, as long as we don't have it. Actually, high school, I'm going to say, these exam centers are actually the last filter, and now they're struggling with poorly prepared candidates. I'm sure there's going to be a way to tighten the controls to say how high schoolers do their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory, the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Much has been said in the debate so far, and I would like to address the problem that seems to me to be sufficiently clear in the proposal for a national road safety programme and is also a social problem for Slovenian society. It's a problem you could call alcohol. If I come from the information in the national programme that every third cause of an alcohol-induced death is alcohol-induced, if I take it that every fifth is under the influence of alcohol that causes a physical injury and every tenth cause of material injury in traffic accidents, this is in the five years 25,654 drivers under the influence of alcohol above the permitted limit. This is a problem which, in my opinion, is a very, very serious problem and which needs to be highlighted in particular, because we should be aware that every driver affected by alcohol is a potential threat to himself and to all those involved in transport. And here it seems to me that, despite the wine quality of the Slovenian country and despite the fact that I am not applying for prohibition in this country, that I am not an abstinent myself, but I stress how important it is to stress that alcohol is second place among the drivers of traffic accidents and that here, in particular, in the adult population, it is necessary to do what and to start education and prevention mainly with each individual. After all, they are able to find ways to get home safely from distant places in a happy society. Therefore, it seems to me that it does not appear to show too much tolerance in our society, which we usually show to such phenomena, and that we should avoid important behavioral behaviors, not the custom, but the custom to count how much we do ourselves, how much we do to the one who is under the influence of alcohol, and who wants to get behind the wheel, we also prevent it in society and advise him to help himself in some other way not to be a potential danger to his environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, we ask you now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I would like to say that I am grateful for a very rich and useful debate. At the same time, it has informed you that it is the duty of the Government to draw up, during the first and second readings, a table of actions after each of the five projects that will emerge under this programme. A pedestrian, a biker, a young driver, speed, alcohol. Following these five addresses, you will get a second reading table of operational measures, which will also be the responsibility of the ministries, taking into account today's debate, which has given very useful additional suggestions, and, of course, taking into account what they are planning in their ministries. In particular, I think it is important to highlight the financial aspect of the entire programme. I think it would also be most useful to recommend to this National Assembly that, in its 2002 budgets and beyond, 2003, 2004 and 2005, they provide for measures to be taken, particularly at this technical level - in this regard they have also been alerted in the debate - and that the same recommendation should be made to the government or the ministry to take into account operational measures planned for the next and following years after all these five projects. Now on this basis, this is said by the complementarity of actions and finance, I think we can achieve what we all want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate now and move on to a decision? So first, someone else wants a word. Yes, Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	So, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm asking you for a little more dynamic debate. Not that you're going to report for discussion for the last second. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	I was just waiting for this debate to end, to listen to my colleagues, what they're going to say. Mostly now there are theories on how we get this crash. So one, we heard, alcohol, the other, holes in the road. No one remembered, except Dr. Bernick, what was the point of the problem. If someone's drunk, drunk, well, I'll say it at home, then he needs to be aware of his condition, even though he doesn't realize if he's in a coma to drive the way he drives. If he's got holes on the road, let him drive as we have regulations to drive. If they're unconfirmed banks, we also have regulations. And I think the problem is that we don't know how to treat each other. And what Dr. Bernick said here, I think that's the point of the problem. Once we get to know each other and act on the road as we should, as Mr. Christmas said you're going to Rome and you can't find a cop on the road, because this applies to cops on the road, I mean, traffic cops - I mean, they don't even know how to behave, they fire you because you don't have lights on in broad daylight in the middle of Izola, and so on. That's funny, just to prove how it's written in the Road Traffic Regulations Act that you just have to have a light; who needs it, I don't know, but now let's leave it. So, what I'm saying is that I'm going to support what Dr. Bernick said. Because in any case, alcohol - far from me saying it doesn't affect accidents, or holes, but look, let's stick to the rules that say you shouldn't drink when you drive, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Kelemina has the replica. I'm warning you, let's try to be rational. Listen, if you don't, we'll be sitting here by August 15th.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. It's just a phrase, maybe. I agree with my colleague that he is also right, and all of you who have discussed are, in fact, in a positive direction, and my debate was not meant in any negative direction. But you know how, in fact, it's easier to write that you have to adjust driving conditions to road conditions. That's the easiest thing to write. That's what you say, and now you find yourself, as you know and know. But to try to prevent anything, to improve and so forth, let anyone who wants do it. Well, I can go home from Ljubljana and drive for three hours, and I'll probably come safe or not, because I threatened someone else, just because I was too slow. I mean, there's a lot of factors like that, you know. Things have to go in some order, in some normal contexts, not to push some things aside, but to do other things. I'd like to ask the minister about this. Look, I can't really afford to plan on how many of them will die on our roads in 2005. I can't support this. I try to ensure that there is nothing dead on our roads, and we should write, do our best, and do our utmost to ensure that there are no dead or fewer. Not that we're planning 210 dead, I can't support it. I'm not gonna support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	That was no longer a replica, I'm warning you. I'm sorry if I'm so rude and I'll warn you when there's no more replica. Mrs. Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. You must have missed me before. I wanted to respond to the implementation of Mr Lavrinc and all those who spoke about the issue of education and behaviour on the roads. It is true that in primary school we have quite good training in road traffic regulations and that is also the way our children behave. However, the lack of education between the ages of 14 and 18. This is the period when a person develops into an adult, and at the age of 18, our young people go almost, I would say, into more than 50% to do exams. During this period, it would really be necessary or to make such a program in secondary schools or vocational schools to learn road responsibilities, or perhaps in this sense we could also think - we should each take a first aid course before we go to the exam - to do a course or something like that. I'm not going to argue that this is the only way. It's just that we always forget that we don't do anything between 14 and 18 in this area. However, if we look at the statistics of these young people, most of them are young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to replicate my colleague Gasparini. I think that what we are legally adopting here is to be respected. That's how I think cops have to control the lights. Well, if they're local or not, I think it's something that needs to be respected. That's where things start. As for all these young dead and so on, I would agree with a colleague who just said, a little more emphasis on education between the ages of 14 and 18, when hormones start working and all some bikers get a very central result. At the end of the school year, I see that our parents are letting up and there are mopeds, bicycles and the like, by transporting teenagers all by the book, looking a little less beautiful, without helmets, both on bikes and on motorcycles and so on. I would say that I might appeal when we have here the top of the police to give some special attention at the moment quite a bit to the bikers, to their safety and, above all, to the bikers, because I think their control is completely out of hand. I think what's being done in this area would advise that. We, whether we're doing polygons or not, it's pure vanity on the road. And as we strive for a small increase in birthrates in this Slovenian nation, see how much losses we have and what costs are from these injured people not to talk about rehabilitation. I think it would be preferable to look at a little bit of this number and then imagine in the coming times whether it would be preferable to punish such vanity with some extra money in insurance. I think there's only one thing we can do here. These are billions of dollars. I don't think it's ever stressed what these future disabled people are costing society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Mr. Levič has the replica, then Mr. Lavrinc. Two replicas. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	I'll be very brief. Maybe just one proposal to the Ministry. In fact, the lady said well that I was missing education in the 14th and 18th years. It's just that in America, the exam is done when you're 16, and you drive with your parents for two years. Here we could fill this hole for these four years without training in road traffic, and we could somehow help the driver to get acquainted with it earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Can you possibly design this as a complement to the point of view?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	We'll be like a complement to the point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	There's only one part I'd like to replicate to my colleague Merle. Indeed, it does not know the statistics of accidents involving motorists. If I knew, then I'd know that a lot less than half of the accidents were caused by the biker's fault. The point is that motorists are, of course, more at risk. I also speak from my own experience. It's not like ten days ago, when the car driver shut me down, he's on my bike. It's too much. Too much, say the motorists, even because we lit the lights on the cars. Now motorists are less visible, so let's say there's no such regulation in Italy. We don't have polar nights, we don't have days to have that. That is why I think that the Road Safety Act will need to be reformed, and that is what we are talking about. There are also quite a few suggestions. At the same time, I think the offence law will have to be rectified. The fact that someone gets a half-off is, in my opinion, absurd. No, he should pay twice if he doesn't pay in time. That's the first one. Secondly, only if it hits the pocket well do we know Slovenians more appropriately and wisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. However, I must warn you that we are talking about a national programme. The debates we are hearing here today are many times debates that could be anywhere else. So, please, stick to the agenda. As President, I am obliged to warn you that we are talking about a national programme and that is all you can talk about. Please. Mr. Merlo has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I'd only replicate to Mr. Lavrinc. The problem is not who the cause is, I agree that there are many others, not motorists. However, it should be pointed out that we have a lot of young, inexperienced drivers on the road, a lot of older people who drive and before they detect a motorist, I tell you, even each of us probably notices on our own what speeds the soto is. By the time you see him, you can be the cause of the accident then to the biker. I don't think it's mentioned that many times, look, it's actually not the motorists' fault that they're, say, other road users. It's just the speed that I'm gonna finish. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	The debate, Mrs Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must say, when I reviewed this national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia, I was actually quite pleased. Because it is interdisciplinaryly written because it covers some of the measures and warnings that are often heard consciously or subconsciously in our country. It is true that the road traffic prevention and training world, led by Mr Žlendra, has done a great deal, particularly in the areas of education in kindergartens and primary schools. It is true that parents are also responsible for the upbringing of their children and also for how we act as road users ourselves. It also believes that criminal policy is rather strict, but I believe that one more point should still be noted. The police are doing their job relatively well, but I personally do not see the role of the police only in the sense that they have to observe and control precisely how much a particular driver drives and whether a certain speed exceeds by km or 5 and in fact implement only criminal policy. In this national programme, I believe that further emphasis should also be placed on the prevention and preventive role of the Slovenian police in order to point out that, with the presence of drivers on the roads alone, drivers should be alerted that certain rules are in force in this country, and that they should not always be punished and explicitly punished and hunted by those who violate the rules. You know, the old Slovenian proverb says a nice word finds a nice place. Often, if a police officer alerts you, advises you, it depends much more on you, especially on a few older participants than ruthless punishment. At the same time, I would say that the programme: a maximum of 210 dead on Slovenian roads by 2005 is to be set up. However, it pains me a little to hear that Project 210 is dead on Slovenian roads. I might translate this a little bit, because when you're reading the national programme, of course, it's a completely different ambition than it is to shut down 210 lives. By 50% reduce the number of dead children, by 50% reduce the number of bikers. This is said to be the continuation of a project that we once had in this country, minus 10%, this time we could say minus 50%. Because ambition is 50% to reduce the consequences of the worst accidents on Slovenian roads. And this, of course, is an ambitious programme and I support it in this respect. Of course, it's just one part of a project that I would personally call a human society project. As long as there is no more tolerance, tolerance, consideration of people living alongside each other, of course there will be no safety in road transport. It's not a thing we can order either by decree or by law, but it's a thing that's been built for years and decades. That is why this national programme is even more important. That you may, as it is easier for me to picture with an illustration of what victims mean, especially between school-bound and pre-school children and causing severe disabilities, let me simply say that this is actually a bus per year. For a bus for children who die or have serious or serious injuries due to participation in traffic accidents. If it is the ambition of this ministry, these governments to reduce this by 50% in the next four years, it is a beautiful, great ambition and I warmly welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Because there's no more discussion. The minister wanted one sentence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	To explain to Mr Kelemini that there will be no misunderstanding that they would not misinterpret the objectives of this programme. We do not plan the number of dead on our roads in 2005. But we plan with all the responsibility to reduce the number of dead on our roads. In doing so, we rely on the methodology used by the European Union, which has adopted in its Road Safety Programme the number of deaths on European roads to be reduced to 110. So they're quantitatively planning as well. However, I must inform you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when adopting the proposal for a national programme, has also adopted the so-called 'vision nothing'. "Vision Zero" is the basic long-term orientation of every civilized society as regards the number of road fatalities, and this is a recommendation from the international road traffic prevention organisation, of which Slovenia is also a member. In short, we have accepted this basic orientation. In addition, we have adopted a programme that is our commitment to reduce the number of dead. I hope that this is clear enough not to be a matter of planning in a different sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, the first consideration, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a national programme for second treatment." There's been a mistake in the text. This is a proposal for a national road safety programme. Who wants a word? Does anyone want to just discuss this decision? [[Nobody.]] Can we get to the vote? Let's vote, please. There's 54 in attendance for 54, nobody's against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the labour body report, as well as the discussion on the three positions we have also received. Who wants to discuss the position and the additional three views that have been put forward? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We'll do it in a row. First of all, we'll decide on the positions that have been put in. First, we decide on the position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group [[Bogdan Barovic is a signatory to this position]] . We're voting, please. Of the 51 present, 45.1 voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We decide on the position put forward by the SDS Group of Members [[you have it in the fabric.]] . We're voting. Of the 53 present, 48.1 voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] Position accepted. We have a third position. This is the position that Dr. Bernik explained earlier. This is the position of New Slovenia. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I also note that this third position has been adopted. Finally, we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for positions. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 49 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Therefore, they are also accepted on this side of the position. We have an additional decision with Mr. Davorin Tarchoon, the first to be signed. It's also in your work. So we are voting on an additional decision. Mr. Tarchoon, he wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this point raised a number of concerns about how roadside controls or roadside controls are carried out. Members of the previous term will recall that there has been a situation in this House, and I have also participated in this, many times noted that such a way of carrying out road controls is unacceptable and that the supervision and punishment of everyone and on average is neither preventive nor educational, and that perhaps the only purpose is that the full state budget is not to raise and prevent road users. Many debaters here also agreed. I believe that such a way of working or exercising control is for the country, at least for my area from which I come, from Primorska, that it is also economically or economically harmful and is detrimental to the reputation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia as a friendly and tourist country. The proposal for an additional decision was signed by 47 members of the National Assembly, the majority of which is the highest legislative body of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that this message will be clear enough for the police's future work, given that the warnings so far have not been delayed. I expect the police to change the practice and punish it, as is the case in a normal European country where the number of accidents is significantly lower than in Slovenia when you commit an offence and control the sections where the worst traffic accidents with the worst consequences will also occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Can we move to a vote on this additional decision? [[Yeah.]] Let's vote, please! Presence 45. The signatories to the decision were 47. We'll go to the vote again. Let's vote again! Let's vote! There's enough of us in the hall. Of the 52 present, 49 votes against, 1 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. This also concludes the agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government. We're moving to 37. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FILM COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives are not yet So. [[...]] I welcome the Secretary of State and ask him if he wants a word? Mr. Zorko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Last autumn, the government tabled a motion for a film fund law, a public fund, for parliamentary treatment. This law was discussed by the working body of the State Council and, in particular, on the basis of comments that were additional or possible additional sources of funding for the film fund, decided that the law as proposed was not suitable for further consideration. The first part of the discussion was also held at the home work body, according to the Committee on the Culture of the National Assembly. On the basis of the debate, which was also negative to the proposed solutions, we have decided, and we have now proposed to the government, that instead of the original new film fund law, the public fund, we propose only an amendment to the existing film fund law, which in principle regulates only harmonisation with European law and leaves additional resources proposed in the original version as additional sources for funding the film fund. At the same time, I would like to inform you that next week, the government will be discussing the establishment of a film fund, and in this act of creation, we want to make the operation of the film fund more detailed and better than ever before, especially in order to make this work more transparent, much more competent than the supervisory board of the film fund has been given so far. Thus, among other things, the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund should decide which films to finance. We are introducing the division of the director's functions, namely the business director and the programme director, and some other changes to ensure, on the one hand, the transparency and legality of the film fund and, of course, gradually develop additional functions which the film fund has not developed yet for various reasons. In this way, I hope that we will manage the future operation of the film fund well enough. We are aware, however, that this will not solve all the issues that have accumulated in Slovenian film production in recent years or decades. In order to regulate this gradually, we have a number of discussions and meetings with people participating in the entire production, and I hope that with other mechanisms as well, not only with the film fund law or with the additions to the film fund law, we will try to regulate this area more comprehensively and provide more money or additional resources for Slovenian film. Once again, however, I would like to point out that only by supplementing the law or by the film agreement law can all problems be solved. This regulates only the operation of the film fund, which is one of the essential elements in Slovenian film production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the Committee's position. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It has to be said that this law, which has only seven articles, has had a multi-hour heated debate on the committee, mainly because the public concerned, this is the company of Slovenian film makers, the economic interest association of Slovenian producers and the film fund itself of the Republic of Slovenia, who were all invited to the committee, believe that this issue needs to be solved in some comprehensive cinematography law, set up a special film office with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that it is only in these conditions, as they are now, that they are very difficult to operate. In a discussion that was then introduced and in which almost all members of the Committee participated, some also after more than six or seven times, the Committee concluded that it is better that in this law, which is submitted and has only seven articles and amends and supplements the basic law, we should only comply with this law on film compliance with legislation, one part of European law and the other part of this legislation, which was created when we adopted the fund law. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this law be adopted in a simplified manner. The Committee also proposes some amendments that improve the text of this law. All amendments do not contain only the substantive texts of this law, but some also have a significant impact, especially when we consider this law in the second reading, the amendment to Article 3. The current law defines the source of the fund's power supply as also the RTV subscription. The concept of RTV's subscription in the present law on RTV is no longer, but it is a fee, and it is kind of a backward concept. The Committee did not insist to the Government's amendment that this article should be deleted and merely opposed to the adoption of this amendment by the government. It should be said that the Government representative has ensured, in view of the heated debate on the Committee, that the Government will by the end of this year prepare a new law on the Republic of Slovenia's film fund and will also renovate the act establishing the Republic of Slovenia's film fund, so that it will be satisfied with those conditions that were expressed at the time of the adoption of the film fund law. However, the debate also showed that the film fund itself, which is mainly set up and appointed by its supervisory board of government, acted in a very contradictory manner at the time of its consideration, contrary to what the government has proposed in this debate. Therefore, it was also said that the Government should take a closer look at how this fund works and then, as far as this fund is concerned, also take appropriate action within the framework of its competences. This, of course, is not a matter of this law that we are considering today. That is why I, the President-in-Office, if I am merely exercising your patience, would suggest that we devote ourselves to this law, and that the shorter procedure has already been adopted and that this law, which has been submitted, is decided by me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I think that was a good guide. Also for procedural reasons. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Before we go to the presentations on the positions of the groups, however, I would like to ask you, the Rules of Procedure clearly state that in the first reading we are only talking about whether we are going to the second or not. But we are talking about concrete things in the second reading that we are not going to repeat things now. So I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I've got my first application here, and it's the only one. Janez Cimperman, SDS MP. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	I'm sorry, I'm not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro, a united list.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Well-welcome Mr. President and representative of the government. The Joint List Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Film Fund Act of the Republic of Slovenia, as it considers the proposed amendments and additions to be really less difficult and represents compliance with the rules of the European Union and other laws already adopted, such as the Public Funds Act and so on. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats will also support the proposed reduced procedure, as it only allows for the most rational treatment in such cases. However, in the UK Group, we are well aware of the fact that a comprehensive proposal for a film fund law will have to be prepared in a short time, and no later than in 2002. Similarly, the proposal for a bill on cinematography, which will comprehensively regulate the entire network of important activities such as Slovenian film production. We expect that in this way a range of open issues, such as financing, development, investment in Viba film, relation to television and vice versa, will be addressed in detail, and in particular will enable the development and growth of the Slovenian film, which has been, is and will be an outstanding reminder of our national identity. We therefore believe that Slovenian film needs a global legal solution, as well as protection, and regulation. See, Slovenian television has fought its national space under the sun without major conflicts and shocks, and this has been permanently and systematically resolved. What about the Slovenian film? We must be aware of all Members, regardless of whether we come from opposition or position, that we are eyewitnesses and that part that will fundamentally affect the history of Slovenian film, so that we can be recorded in all the chronicles and history of the film because of the decisions and solutions that we will offer for the preservation and development of the film and film production. Remember the beginnings of the Slovenian film, the pre-war work, the brilliant master Bozidar Jacque, Dr. Mir Foerster, Dr. Karl Grossman, the luzomer lawyer Veličan Beštr, a Ljubljana photographer with a craftsmanship sheet for making a film from 1922. Remember the Line of Škodlar, Jaka Travna, film historian, Matjaž Klobčič, Soul of Wait and all those who have made hard and creative work our film, which has a long history worth continuing and developing. We rightly expect the new law to offer an optimal solution to the financing of the film and TV industry, which will clearly define the link between the public financing method and the private one, which will allow for additional start-up of the film. In the Joint List Group, we expect the new proposal for a law on the film fund of the Republic of Slovenia to accurately outline all complex relations between all actors in production and distribution. The Group of the United List of Social Democrats expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to offer to verify the 1992 Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production and other cultural conventions. In the Joint List Group, we will support the proposed amendments of the Government because we believe that they are in line with the basic reasons or intended to amend and supplement the law on the film fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. On behalf of New Slovenia, Mrs Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! The Nova Slovenija Group would more fully agree that this amendment and the amendment of the film fund law should be withdrawn and a completely new, modern law should be introduced, covering all the problems in the film field and the issue of the film fund. In August 2000, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tabled a proposal for a law on the film fund of the Republic of Slovenia, but the current government withdrew it and sent us only corrections to the old law. These are less difficult to comply with European Union rules and the adopted law on public funds. We believe that by accepting these minimum corrections we are somehow giving up opportunities for a certain period of time to establish a model of European cinematography in Slovenia. We therefore need a new roof law that will fully regulate cinematography in Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group therefore supports both the proposed additional decisions, both by the SDS Group and by Mr Bevko's proposed decision, which were presented on the parent committee on 19.6.2001. In doing so, they commit the Government to submit to the National Assembly, as soon as possible, a proposal for a law which will regulate the area of cinema as a whole. Since the government has already been working on this, it is likely that it will not be so difficult to continue the work already started. This would give us a new European comparable roofing law for cinema. This would replace the old, patched-up law and certainly bring more order to the satisfaction of all those working in this area and, finally, to us who are more or less users of film production. However, since we are aware that this will not be the case immediately, we support these amendments to the law and agree with the shortened procedure as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like a word? Yes, please, Mrs. Shirca, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	At one of its first meetings a month ago, the Committee on Culture rejected the amendment and amendment of the film fund law, as has already been presented today. In short, the proposal that was tabled in the parliamentary procedure last August - I can say that this was a complement of Sheliga - this proposal did not support nor later government, nor our secretariat for legislation, nor the State Council, not distributors, not cinematographers, not television and not all Members. They bring solutions that were inconsistent; they are inconsistent in terms of understanding the valid constitutional principle of the integrated budget, because of non-systemic solutions that would have affected cinematography as a result, it would have resulted in higher prices for cinematography, penalising art distribution and also showing artistic or European cinematography in our public interest. As a result, television art production, etc. could be reduced. In short, he brought solutions that would further fuel the film fund with so-called state resources, not just through budgetary resources. The film fund would really be powered by additional taxes, including taxes, if I could tell them that, but what I would have gained would have been acquired at the expense of someone else, because someone else would have had to be taken away too. The conclusion of that, at the time, initial or other regular meeting of the parent parliamentary body was that the government should study better and more consistent solutions for the film fund or for financing the film fund or cinematography in our country. And what has the government done since then? The government has examined and examined that it will only consider that it is willing to promise to explore the possibilities for seeking additional funds, resources for Slovenian cinema and to carry out a study on whether there is a need for a roofing law on cinema. With this promise, with which she has secretly heard the parliamentary committee's decision, she has provided us with some kind of beauty correction, which, despite its minimality, is disarming us because this correction is necessary in order to close the chapter on coordination with the EU in this way of plastic surgery. Of course, we are not happy with this solution, but at the same time we cannot or should not challenge it, because we are bound by an agreement to join the EU. Furthermore, the government promises us once again that it will continue to study sublimely, as I have already said, whether there is even a need to find roof solutions. The situation is certainly schizophrene, because if we really adapt to the systems of the European Union - I am talking about those who work in practice but not on paper - not just the directives, then we should have a solution at the table that would be similar to solutions in other countries that are more successful, including cinematographic, comparable to us, but not just solutions that are aligned with one paper decree on the free movement of capital, which, I note, is not currently hampered, as set out in Article 4 of the Act. Even more so is the fact that the film fund law is, in some way, in the form it is, barren, impoverished, or merely formal, because it has been or has been cut off by a majority or more than half of the articles at the time the law on public funds was passed last year, which is also covered by the film fund law. The Law on Public Funds has excluded most of the articles from the Film Fund Act, so now there are, I think, 8 with one criminal and a few transitional provisions. Thus, the basic operational act on the operation and regulation of the Fund is the founding act of the Film Fund, which was adopted last autumn by the Government, which, however, as a sub-legislative act, contains almost everything that this film fund law already brings. This is said to define what is meant by the creation of the Fund, the tasks of the Fund, the financing of the Fund, the prizes, a partial display of film workers, which is not in law and practice at all and so forth. Thus, in the film fund law, it is important - in what we now have on the table - in particular that article which speaks of permission for foreign producers. This article is now being corrected in order to make it easier for foreign producers to record with us, no less obstructed than possible in the dictatorship in force in the basic text of the law. Where we believe that co-productions for Slovenian cinema are very educational, not to say important, pedagogical, we certainly cannot underestimate these changes, and not only because they are part of the Treaty with the European Union, adaptation procedures. Right in the face of foreign experiences, I will say, easier to expand horizons or easier to question from time to time, I stress, occasionally, the self-satisfaction of Slovenian filmmakers, who, I stress, occasionally seek solutions only to seek additional budgetary resources or extra-budgetary resources. Let me also point out that intervention by RTV funds of a contribution which, according to film workers, as well as some members of the LDS, is intended to power the film fund means intervention by budgetary means in some other form, provided that we understand, of course, the television contribution, the former subscription, as a tax on television or on electricity. In short, even though we will support the law today at least the LDS Members in general, let me stress that we will do so with reservations, because it is up to us to believe in the government in its so many times promised will after studying, exploring and studying other solutions. We will commit it to an additional decision, as I see other parliamentary groups, which are committed to finding truly more appropriate solutions. If there are no such solutions, surely, at least the LDS Members, we commit ourselves to watch, if not the other, if we are a bit skeptical, at least at the moment when we are adopting the budget in Parliament or when we are monitoring or perhaps even bottling the offers and solutions offered by the government at least in the budget for the financing of the Slovenian film. For I should point out that in recent years the situation of financial resources for film has somehow been rectified, the resources almost halved by independence and that, in 1997, 1998 and 1999, the budget for film has substantially increased, including by 45, 46 million a year, have not only staggered this year, even worse, literally stopped or are significantly lower than in previous years. After all the resuscitations that Slovenian film has experienced in recent years, not only the resuscitations, but also the territories, it has been given less money this year than it certainly deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any of the other MPs? No one else. Good. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. We have one letter of notification. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Of course, I do not intend to waste time on my colleagues and colleagues, but I still believe that the agenda item is still important in a number of aspects. Presidents, of course, you have called for us to think in which direction to discuss, given that it is at first reading. But given that the reduced procedure is a procedure, allow me, as you have allowed the representatives of the parliamentary groups, to say once about all the consideration of this proposal. See, also today is a government representative, the Secretary of State here said that the proposed changes are in principle, if I quote "in principle we only regulate harmonisation with the European Union". I was one of those actors on my mother's work body who caused a heated discussion. And I like that I did, not least because my mother's working body has come up with a decision to delete Article 3 of the proposed text of the articles. Let me go back. I, you know, am very pro-European and I am very much in favour of the early, rapid and, of course, as much as possible, integration of Slovenia into the European Union. I do not have any doubts at all when it really comes to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, when we are talking about the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. In these seven articles, there are in fact only two articles talking about harmonisation with the European Union. That is why I am always angry, if anyone, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which my party is involved, tries to harmonise with the European Union, in saying, "to subvert" something that is not subject to harmonisation with the European Union. This is precisely the case with Article 3 of the proposed text, where the film fund is in some way trying to take away the legal basis for additional funding introduced by this law in 1994. If I consider the fact that the Ministry of Culture's funds are minor compared to other expenditure, let me tell you that, of course, on the plane, they are only comparable to the fund for amateur activity. Today we have heard from a colleague of Shirce the amount of these funds. In comparison, as President of the Athletics Association, the budget of the Athletic Union of Slovenia is such as the budget allocated to the Ministry of Culture for the Film Fund. I don't think that's right. This is not the case because looking at the data provided by the Slovenian Film Creators Society shows that 108 films, mostly American films, were shown in Slovenia last year. Unfortunately, I would like to - I speak for myself, personally - and I would like to see some more European. Three Slovenian films were ranked among the first 15. If the average of foreign films is 19 thousand 222, the average visit to Slovenian film is 39 thousand 438, not to mention how many of our films have won awards at many international festivals. It is therefore necessary to thank all young and older creators for their altruism at this point, of course, to produce what they can in such situations. If it is also our fault, this Parliament, not to provide more funds in the budget, it seems unacceptable to me by this National Assembly to withdraw the legal basis for additional funding of the film fund, which is in fact enshrined in Article 9 of the Basic Law on the Film Fund, in a indent which states that the Fund is acquiring funds to carry out the activities of the Slovenian Television subscription to enrich the national television programme. I must say that I strongly protested on my mother's working body when both a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and some of my colleagues told me that this article inta indenta is inoperable. And, of course, I wondered why the matter could have been inoperable since 1994 and why, in fact, those actors who had any option did not get this article into surgery. Therefore, it is not a solution to the deletion of this article, of course, but to the operationalisation of this article, I apologize. As I predicted at the beginning, I won't be long. I would, of course, like to say that I will support the law with the amendment of the Committee, the parent working body talking about the deletion of Article 3 and, of course, I would be happy to support the decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to actually draft the basic law on cinematography by the end of the year. Of course, I strongly hope that this roofing law will in fact be similar, I stress, similar if not even better than the laws that save this area in the European Union. In the European Union, they pay a great deal of attention, especially in the European Union countries, to their film production, not only from a national point of view and I hope that it is not here, but also from an economic point of view. Therefore, I hope that this law will be comparable to the truth and I will be happy to support it if it is as the acquis communityaire foresees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The debate of the other Members, who have not applied in writing for the debate, is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Jerovšek, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to my fellow Member, Mr Jakic, who has somehow tried to show how I would like to sit on two horses at the same time. Actually, I don't agree with one of his thesis. He pointed out that it was not right that the funds for athletics or athletics were the same as the means for film production. I have no argument that this is very correct. However, I must say that I am very sorry that I have not actually seen a good Slovenian film. The last young producers, I hope they will develop, those who produced and recorded in Lero to go this way. At the same time, I know that we have great athletes who have promoted Slovenia in the world. It seems very strange to me that you are advocating that athletics, who is the queen of sports, in a way, be given less resources. But I think in the film production that film producers themselves will have to take more seriously. Recently, I took a film director and he explained to me the catastrophic unreality of foreign professors who are all film producers. Two months later, they're missing classes. They don't work with students. That's not how it's gonna go any further. Film producers must first ask themselves whether they are serious enough, after all, I know that the exceptions are to demand funds from the company. A huge amount of resources, I think, have been thrown into Slovenian film production, has been taken quite a few times for completely unrealistic projects, a completely unrestrained approach. The funds were used, it was not recorded at all, or some of the films we watched, I can honestly tell you that it seems to me that the selection of personnel is wrong in this area, that they had access to state resources and that they were recognized directors in the Slovenian film world, I think, I do not know what criteria. As a Slovenian, man sometimes wonders what some have allowed themselves to be filmed to encounter a general harassment of people. If film workers do not regulate the criteria of professionalism within themselves, it is actually difficult to take on more money in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Of course, I repeat two things to my esteemed colleague. Indeed, there was a discussion outside the box, but my intervention and regarding the athletic relationship I just wanted to say that the athletic relationship is one of many sectoral sports relationships, and if you add up all the sectoral sports links, you will see that, of course, there is a lot of money unchanged sports, and in comparison, of course I wanted to show how little. By the way, when you're talking about the sport queen, this sport queen has, compared to football, skiing or basketball, 10% of what other people get. But you can't afford to say that athletes promote our country and country, Sterk, Kozola, Košak and the others. Everyone promotes it on their own segment. Bikar in athletics, Sterk in film. And of course, the subjective assessment is also yours, which is a good film. If we sit together, we'll come to the conclusion that we can't even catch up on one movie, that I'm not talking on one book or anything. Therefore, of course, the subjective assessment is yours whether the film is good for you or not. Of course, if you're irritated by the titles of movies like, fuck you and so on, of course that's another question. I know that there has been a major discussion in this national assembly and, above all, in the public of controversy, whether the state should allocate funds to the films so called. But that's a subjective assessment. That is why, of course, both athletes and film makers have to be defended and it is necessary to say that both, we are all trying, and we are trying to do as much in the world as possible for this country of Slovenia through our parliamentary diplomacy. And, of course, with the money that this segment that makes the film has, it is my basic thesis that, of course, with this money maxes, maximumly promote this Slovenia, and that these promotions could be much more if we had more money to do more, once again subjective assessment, of quality or of your opinion of quality films that, in addition to these 60 awards that they received abroad, could get 120 and, of course, promote this Slovenia at different levels.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. You want to replicate back, Mr Jerovšek? Before you replicate, in defence of the rules of procedure and the law that we have before us and our fellow Members, who will now obviously listen to you, I remind you that your debate is absolutely from the context that we now have before us. It is a reduced procedure and thus a limited number of articles which are open and also a limited possibility of discussion. I allow you a replica, Mr Jerovšek, and I hope that we are done with this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I also hope you will not live on me because it was caused by your colleague Jakič. But the important darkness has opened up here. I agree with my colleague Jakič that each assessment is subjective and that I am not an expert in films myself, but also within my subjective assessment of the possibilities and ability to compare various films and various film productions. And once again, I insist that some of the younger film directors are, in my opinion, perspective. Personally, I don't know them that well, but there were some older people who had uncritical approval of the resources, because some of the films I watched, and I think it was sometimes literally about the delusions of directors, and I think it would have been, and I'm telling you, this two-hour interview with the director student, confirmed to me how some of the younger directors who had shown perspective and talent were blocked. Inside these bureaucratic structures, they are "free" in all possible ways. But what I stand for; see, when I'm even older films, even those that are good movies -- is to a large extent and often the incomprehensible unprofessionality of filming, which happens in an American movie, for example, generally does not happen. In a good movie, such as TV Flowers in the fall, I still don't care how they can shoot a sequence in the movie when the lead actress grabs leaves and keeps grabs in the way that they can't be physically held. If [[..]] [[You don't understand. You talk to each other.]] in America [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Mr Jerovšek, I apologize, this goes beyond the limits not only of the shortened procedure, but you are absolutely discussing in a replica of things that we are not obliged to listen to here. Lord Jerovšek, this is my first admonition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	I'll finish in one sentence. In one sentence; so, Mr. Jakič, it is not that any law, no, irritates me! It wasn't at all because you wanted to do it again with some thesis that you were super advanced and the other we were backwards. It's all about the attitude towards the movie's ratings, and just like the average viewer sees it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič, I'm really warning you, too. At the beginning of your implementation, you yourself gave an assessment of your debate that "it will be a bit of a framework". Because she was a little out of frame, she's causing these kind of replicas. That is why I am warning you, Mr Jakič, if this is about assessing the things we have ahead of us, I allow the replica, otherwise not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Dear Vice-President, I have not left the context of the framework, I have said that I will bring together and talk about the amendments in both stages, the first reading and the second. In fact, in the first phase, I could only talk about whether I'm going to stage two or not. And I have united and I have spoken all the time about Article 3 and harmonisation with the European Union, which is also the substance of this. However, my colleague Jerovšek provokes me and draws me to my tongue, so I will not allow myself to receive a reminder from your side, as did my colleague Jerovšek. I would like to say the following sentence again in the defense of Slovenian film: Slovenian film production is quality; this is witnessed by the awards of professional jury and not by the award or opinion of Jakič or Jerovska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry! Dearly beloved, the replica that can follow this implementation of Mr Jakić is only "I do not agree", but you have already said that. You've given your assessment of films in our country, but they're not subject to this kind of procedure. Mr. Jakič just didn't agree with you. Your Honor, does anyone else want to discuss this? Mr. Rudi Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not going to talk about film activity. I'm going to talk about film stock. I may have said too little in the first place that existing legislation also allows the film fund to reach inappropriately large resources. However, only the work of the Fund, as has been said on the Committee - and thus no assessment submitted by the film fund to the competent government or to anyone else has been made - could have been better if the following were met. First of all, there's five indents in the law where we get the money. It is right that the state gives, and I will always stand behind it to make sufficient resources from the state budget. I am talking about round figures: out of the 20 billion dedicated to culture, half a billion films can be made available for it and it leads to its programme of work. Then comes the second indent, from which the film fund would draw, this is: from its own income, from the marketing of the film production they make from public funding, which the state has also given; this circle is said to have started spinning. I, as well as some others, have not received an answer to this question, or it was almost evident that the film fund did not receive any resources from this title that would contribute to the work of this Fund in a qualitative manner. Third word. From cooperation with international institutions and organisations. Here too, Mr. Secretary of State, isn't it? - it was said that the film fund did not acquire these funds or were negligiblely small. Fourth word. From the share of the TV Slovenia subscription for the enrichment of national television programmes, which my colleague Jakič is passionate about, it was found that the fund received nothing, but that RTV financed producers, not that it provided funds and that the fund with these words would be available and with donations of gifts and from other sources, which were also almost nothing. So this fund, which is supposed to be powered out of five things, is actually mostly powered by what the budget gives it. And critical words were made at the committee meeting in order to prepare, when preparing the law, the law also in this direction, to critically analyse the functioning of this fund, which it has set up itself, and then to see if this thing does not work as it is laid down in the law and in the act establishing the film fund, but to draw conclusions and, in accordance with the legislation, to enable us to achieve better quality work in this area. I think I've been wide enough now to talk about this dilemma, and then I'll stop. But if I'm only talking about this law, then I think the introduction has said enough - for a marriage that has only seven articles. However, if we want to open the whole debate that was on the committee, then of course this is a debate that will lead us to be able to talk about it for hours and hours. But here, as a predecessor, a lot of assessments have already been made by Members who were probably not serious, which someone has just said from his own belief about how he views these things. Official evaluations, and officially - somehow what Jakič said - it must be said that the film fund is developing a film thing in Slovenia, but we should look at this development with all the effects, not just this effect, what TV will give, what the country will give, but we should look at these things more widely. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I am putting my heart at your disposal to keep this promise that you have made on the committee and that in the autumn we will be able to open a quality debate on a certain comprehensive film fund law and that we will also, as Slovenians, ensure decent conditions; and that what we accept is also carried out to such an extent that everyone who is responsible for anything will be responsible for that too. Not that all the debate will always focus on what the National Assembly gives, what these resources give, which are inexhaustible, but not what we have done ourselves to make this film fund work better. I, the President-in-Office, will no longer advertise, but these dilemmas and all that has been said - there I say that the debate lasted several hours, under the law with seven articles - but that this item of the agenda should be changed and then evaluated in the Republic of Slovenia, not amended and amended by the law on the film fund of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting! Unfortunately, for the first time, we have not been able to hold a valid vote. I respectfully ask my colleagues and colleagues who are near to join us. Secondly, we are voting on the proposal for a decision that I have previously presented. Let's vote! Now that we've counted, there's plenty of us in the hall. I will try again and again to warn you that by pressing one of the buttons, however, we will ensure that the decision is in force. Secondly, we are voting on the proposal for a decision! I'm afraid it didn't work out. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will continue our work at 12.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Your Honor! By a third vote on the proposal to decide, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, that we shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled, for the third time in the Chamber. Therefore, I very much ask you to allow a valid third vote on the motion for a decision by pressing on one button. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 29.6.2001. In my debate and decision-making, I am putting Article 1 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. The amendment's government doesn't object. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. The amendment's government opposes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 27. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting! There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 9. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the two amendments to this Article. The first proposer is the Government, noting that, if the amendment under 1 is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant. The proposal for this is a committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting! There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 11. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been adopted and has therefore become an amendment under 2 irrelevant. We decide on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. Unfortunately, we have failed to make a successful vote. Since there are so many of us in the hall that we are sure to conclude, I respectfully ask you for some attention. We are voting on the whole article, secondly. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 4. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 4 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants want to table an amendment to these articles, please do so, and I ask first whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Because no, we are moving on to a full decision on the law, and before that, I ask the secretariat whether there has been a possible discrepancy. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, we also have two proposals for additional decisions, which are also under the amendment review, on page 3 of the amendment review. The first proposal is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and the second proposed by Mr Samo Bevk. I am opening a debate on these two proposals for additional decisions. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	As a colleague of Silva Črnugljeva has announced, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats has supported the film fund law. However, we have also proposed an additional decision, which reads: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by January 2002 to prepare a comprehensive proposal for a law on the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a bill on cinema that will regulate relations in the entire chain of these activities." The ruling proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members is similar. Any decision will be taken, it will oblige the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent Ministry of Culture to resolve the issue of film art or, rather, Slovenian cinema in its entirety. In the Slovenian film it is not a single unresolved issue, as the director of Method Pevec said at a consultation in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, but a unresolved whole. The country cannot and must not avoid the questions and expectations put before us by Slovenian film makers and film artists. Therefore, in the end, I would like at least one of these two decisions to be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor, allow me only an additional explanation. The text under the footnotes is misplaced and falls under the proposal for an additional decision under order number 2, which is therefore the proposal for an additional decision by Mr Bevek, because the proposal for an additional decision under order number 2 is broader and covers the regulation of the proposal of two laws, namely the film fund and the proposal for a statutory law; the proposal for an additional decision under order number 1 proposed by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group relates only to the supervisory law. Mr. Cimperman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. We're withdrawing our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Thus, the proposal for an additional decision, located under order number 1, is withdrawn. After the discussion, we will vote on the proposal for a decision under order number 2. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. So there was a lot of talk on the committee about this comprehensive regulation of film activity in Slovenia. We believe that today's adoption of the film bill or the addition of the film fund law and the changes the government will adopt, with changes to the founding act, is a sufficiently well-ordered or sufficiently good basis, a legal basis, a legal framework for making the film fund even more useful in the future or better working for the benefit of Slovenian film. It is true, however, that many things in Slovenian cinema are not completely arranged. In fact, the Slovenian Film Fund is only one part of the entire production chain or in the creation of Slovenian film, so we are aware that this whole area needs to be regulated. And since, in the text of this proposal, there is an additional decision to re-examine the law, the comprehensive film fund law, if you allow it, I suggest that we commit ourselves or commit ourselves, but we have already committed ourselves to all the debates so far to prepare a proposal for a law on the comprehensive regulation of Slovenian film production. However, we believe that additional interventions to the film fund law will probably not be necessary, as only this part of the area will be adequately regulated with these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. You get your word right away, Mrs. Maja Shirca, then Mr. Jakič called. Now, let's just settle this misunderstanding. If I understand correctly, you have supported the additional proposal for a decision under number 1 and whose proposer is the Socialist Party's Group of Members, which says that by the end of this year a new law will be drawn up which will fully regulate the area of cinema. Mr. Cimperman, you said you were just taking this away.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	In this case, we're not withdrawing him, we're returning him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. This means that we again have an additional proposal for a decision under 1. Mr. Zorko gave him support. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. With a further comment from the government representative, I would like to point out that we are not going to say big, but certainly unpleasant, that everything that the government has promised so far has somehow withdrawn. The Secretary of State says that the film fund law, as we have just voted, is a very good basis for the operation of film production or cinema in Slovenia in terms of production. That's a misunderstanding. Faced with all that talk and all that decision, in fact, and with the intention of the Committee on Culture, which referred to the same government or wanted the government to present better solutions than they were shown at the time the Committee rejected them. This is the case within the film fund law; the question is, if within the roofing law on cinematography. In his preliminary interpretation of Article 9 of the Film Fund Act, Mr Moze made it quite clear from which funds the Film Fund is supplied on certain grounds. It is said: from the State budget, from cooperation from international organisations, from grants, gifts and other resources. But still! The solutions that we are waiting for in silence or which we have also loaded are not only going to this line, but they go to those solutions that are comparable to those that have a longer duration than in Slovenia in other countries. These are, however, solutions that seek in some way a stronger cooperation with television, which, of course, today, with an additional amendment, we have at least provided a basis that seeks solutions even in terms of options, so that banking guarantees can be made in the context of possible - including tax - facilitations, in the context of better solutions than we were given in the first treatment of taxes or fees for movie tickets. These are also solutions that also stem from a certain possibility of taxation of distribution copies - of course not in the way that was then in the so-called Sheliga law. Here are the reserves. But these reserves are going to be looked for within the resolution of the film fund law, not about cinematography, which will be able to solve the question of also reproductive and other cinematographic activities from distribution, from beginning to end - it is said, to exploitation. In this sense, I would like to point out that it applies absolutely seriously, perhaps more than ever before - even additional conclusions. [[...]] Although I was leaning towards the first decision, which does not define what this law is: whether it is a film agreement or a cinematography law, as the second decision proposed by the first-signed Bevk or only Bevk, because the second one speaks of two laws and obliges us to face two laws in the future. In short, the film fund law and cinematography; which is the question if, of course, the government, which commits itself to research and study, comes to that conclusion. I guess she won't come, as I know the needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please. Then Mr. Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. I must say that I was also surprised when I listened to the Secretary of State; not only what Shirca's colleague was talking about, but the Secretary of State was talking about the study. In these conclusions, we are not talking about studying - whether there will be changes - but we are talking about drafting a new roof law. In this way, I warn the Secretary of State that, of course, this information would not go wrong, that the National Assembly calls on the Government to draw up a bill this year because this country urgently needs it. Personally, I must say that this is a dilemma: one law, two laws, is an artificial dilemma and, of course, the proposer himself will come with a proposal if we have already referred to regulation in the European Union. Let me tell you that the issue in the European Union is being addressed in a comprehensive manner; it is said that there is an audiovisual problem which takes into account both the film and, of course, television and is also on the board. We found our own model. But I would therefore give more free time to the government in this direction to support the first proposal, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, because I believe it is broader and offers more opportunities. But once again, the Secretary of State, we are not talking about the fact that the government will now re-examine, because, in my opinion, also on the basis of -- no, today's discussion, mainly on the basis of a discussion that was in the home labour body. I hope that the government is already clear that the roof law must be drawn up this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Only that there will be no basic misunderstanding, because there is often a substitute for a roof law or a law that is supposed to regulate the entire film area by the operation of a film fund. All I'm saying is that the film fund law only governs the operation of one segment of the entire production, and that is the operation of the film fund. Of course, this is extremely important, if not the most important segment, but if we want to comprehensively regulate the film area, attract some other resources outside the film fund or outside the budget, then it is necessary to make a law that will talk about anything else, not just the film fund. The film fund is a budget fund and whatever is done under the film fund is done through an integrated budget. This matter, of course, has its legitimacy and its logic. If there is a need for the film fund to change further in the future, the near future, - we do not oppose it. However, we believe that this moment is, of course, the need for the remaining areas to somehow be integrated in trying to link together with the film fund in some kind of integral law. What will be the text: whether you study or not - of course, you can accept the commitment, eventually you will accept the text, one way or another. But I wanted to point out that with the changes that you have adopted today and with the changes that the government is expected to adopt next week, with the amendments to the founding act, we believe that there is a possibility that the film fund, as one of the important segments, will gradually start to work better than it has worked so far. Of course, other things remain truly open and need to be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Here you go, Mr. Partlich. I'm sorry I missed you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	I think that now the discussion has shown that it may be necessary to study in the future when what we have adopted today will also come to life. But I have to say to my colleagues this way that I'm always a little bit scared when there's some art branch talking about the whole arrangement of things. Life, thank God, it's not like it's a whole matter of creation and everything. This is not how I feel about these formulations, but it has nothing to do with how I'm going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Now no one really wants to discuss it anymore, so we are moving on to a vote. We will first vote on the proposal for an additional decision proposed by Mr Samo Bevk. If adopted, the amendment under order number 1 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 17 to 26. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision by the Bevek proposal has not been adopted. We are also deciding on a proposal for an additional decision, the drafter of which is the SDS Group of Members. Let's vote! Unfortunately, the vote was not valid. There were enough of us in the hall. Secondly, we are voting on a proposal for an additional decision by the SDS Group. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Government for its cooperation. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On the basis of Article 70, I am procedurally protesting the conclusion of this point now because you have taken my word by violating the Rules of Procedure. I must warn you that the current rules of procedure are still in force here. But you follow the rules of procedure that you consider already adopted and that the opposition must be silenced in every way. In fact, you also allowed yourself to look at my head, what I was going to say when I didn't get the words. Article 70 gives me the absolute right to reply to statements which Mr Jakič, in my opinion, was largely incorrect. In fact, I also have to protest because there is a constant manipulation that even in the newspaper "was not given a word because he did not talk about the issue that was on the agenda". They will not write that Mr Jakič spoke about the excessive budget of the athletic relationship and you should stop it then, but they will write that Jerovšek did not get the word. But since such a solution has not happened for the first time, but for the third time, I cannot answer what coalition Members are saying if they need to be corrected, I will correct them as long as such rules of procedure are in place. I hope that you have come to know your mistake and that you will be able to do enough to apologize for this violation of the rules of procedure that have been brought to my attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, I apologize to you. In the part where we have a common problem with the concept of replicas, we explain each other differently. We're moving on to 38. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON INVESTMENT FUNDS AND MANAGEMENT SOCIETY . The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State Darko Tolar, please. You can go to the pay phone, Mr. Tolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies is the last legal basis for rounded legislation in the field of the Slovenian financial system in the field of capital market: primary and secondary. The law is based on relevant legislation in the European Community, more specifically on the Investment Funds Directive and on any amendments and additions to this Directive which have been adopted in the European Community. The law allows savings to be collected and savings collected through vouchers or shares in investments in the economy. The aim of this law is to create the strength and reliability of this segment of the financial system and, of course, the long-term confidence of investors in such investments and such savings. It is based on the principle of transparency in the operation of investment funds on the principle of safe and sound management and on the principle of control over the conduct of entities operating professionally in this field in accordance with the provisions of the law. The implementation or implementation of the law itself will not require additional specific budgetary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice-President. The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act has many articles and very cheap reasons for its adoption and also a justification for the law. It is written that it is a matter of harmonising the law with internationally comparable solutions, with which we agree and therefore support the law. However, I would like to point out in the openings that we particularly agree with the definition that one of the important principles of this law, including the principle of safe and prudential conduct, is also an important principle. All persons who provide professional services related to the management of investment funds, including management companies, must provide services in the interests of investors. This is important, this is indisputable; this should be the case, at least in our opinion, even so far. However, it has to be asked whether it was so special, because even in 1994, when we adopted the current law on funds and management companies, we were convinced in the same way - that the law would deal well with all the issues and that we were taking over global practice in this area. It is not, however, stressed and does not point out that the new proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies adopted in 1994 is repealing, and how so far, after the law in force, special investment companies have been operating and operating, which have also collected citizens' certificates under the property law. The law we adopt today at first reading also requires their reshaping. However, we are not paying attention to whether and how the issues that have so far been raised regarding their business are being resolved. That is why I think it is right that we are also talking about the state and functioning of this law on the basis of the law in force, both authorised investment companies and management companies, especially because neither the government nor the debate so far in the National Assembly have specifically pointed out this. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to briefly discuss three groups of issues in this regard. First time. The authorised investment companies were inseparable ownership systems. They collected about 320 billion values of ownership certificates, with certificates lodged by over a million 200,000 citizens and citizens. Many without authorized investment companies would not have the opportunity to place their certificates anywhere. It is important to know that pensioners employed in public administrations and many others could not, even if they wanted to, invest in companies. Therefore, talking about the fact that certificate holders had the option of any choice is not entirely objective; there was little choice, but little choice. These holders of certificates, which could not invest in their companies, could only participate in the public sale of the shares that the companies had requested. However, the ownership reports show that only about a quarter of the value of the certificates collected has been marketed in companies, and so if all were to go for public sale, three quarters of the certificates would still remain for investment in authorised investment companies. Second. Despite this role of authorised investment companies and despite the promise by law to date, eight and a half years after the adoption of the law, the State has not covered all the values of ownership certificates collected by authorised investment companies. There is still not a quarter of the value of the property required to ensure the equivalence of the certificates collected. This is what we have been alerting for a long time in the United List of Social Democrats - I do not claim to be the only one. On our proposal, even a law was adopted in autumn 1996, which obliged the government to fill the privatisation deficit by 31.12.1997. Later, several more deadlines were set, the last marriage deadline came to an end on 12 January 2000, which is also said almost a year and a half ago, and the deadline we agreed together in the coalition agreement has also come to an end. We have not given up on our warnings, but for now it must be acknowledged that we have not been particularly successful. I do not say that it is only the government that is responsible for this situation; they may also be responsible for the management companies and their owners, but the problem is not solved. And the third time. We have been receiving or, at least, I have accepted and detected information on one serious problem recently, which is the issue of the value of shares of management companies. We may have found that the value of the shares of the authorised investment companies has fallen in recent years, i.e. approximately 10 times, while at the same time the value of the shares of the management companies, i.e. those that managed the authorised investment companies, has increased by at least 10 times. So we had a completely opposite situation. Those who managed authorised investment companies increased their capital and managed companies by reducing the capital or shares of those who invested by 10 times. Therefore, those who should take care of the safe and sound operation of authorised investment companies, at least to maintain their real value, have done themselves richly - say richly - to the detriment of the holders of authorised investment companies. I think that's indisputable. It's just a fact, it shows numbers, whether it's nice or it's rough to hear. This is an anomaly of the ownership process, which - I don't think - is acceptable. It would therefore be right to find out where the reasons for this was possible and who made it possible: whether this enabled the law - that is, the state, the government which it had proposed in 1994, and which we have not changed so far to prevent - whether it allowed the abuse of the law or anything else. Even if such a situation is formally legal - and I will not claim it is not - it is immoral for me. It is immoral for someone who cares for someone else’s property to watch his property go to waste, but the rich themselves, if the country has allowed it to do so, is additionally unacceptable. As a result, in the United List of Social Democrats, we expect government representatives to provide us with explanations and answers as to how this has been possible, where the reasons for this situation are, why we have not received proposals from the government in time to make this impossible or otherwise. We expect that today, if this is not possible, they will give us this at least until the second consideration of the law. Moreover, more or less, I would point out, seriously and firmly, that even in this law it would be right to point out that the privatisation gap has to be finally filled after many promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Since obviously no Member Group wants to present its views on this law again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I am putting to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which is, first of all, given that there is not enough of us in the voting room, I kindly ask colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity to join us. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Unfortunately, we are not enough in the Chamber, so we are voting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the second time, and then we will stop for ten minutes. We'll vote next time. There are 43 of us present, which means we cannot make a valid decision. For the third time, we will vote on the proposal for a decision at 13.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, we will vote on the decision with the following content: "The proposal of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the first reading, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." We decide on the proposal for a decision for a third time. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions that have been drawn up by the mother's working body and are recorded in the report of the working body, as well as the debate on the complementary position put forward by Member Miran Potrč; first we will decide on the latter and then on two additional proposals. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal tabled by Mr Miran Potrč. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a complementary position has been adopted. We are also moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions of the parent working body. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. In relation to this law, Mr Miran Potrč also proposed two additional decisions. Does anyone want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on both proposed additional decisions. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that both the proposed additional decisions have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 39. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Tolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal to amend and supplement the Banking Act is based on three bases: supplementing the Banking Act and aligning it with the consolidated European Community Directive on banking adopted in mid-last year and further by additional Directive No. 28, which deals with the situation, the city and also the definition of emerging electronic money. The second basis is the minor additions to the regime that have been shown in the practice of implementing the law itself since it was adopted in February 1999. The third source is certain editorial corrections to those provisions. The principles contained in this law are the principles of transparency of banking operations, the principle of safe and prudential business and the principle of supervision. There is no risk of additional budgetary resources in this law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I have not received written submissions from Members and Members to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments - we have only one amendment - and the articles discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote! There are 45 of us present. Right now, I think it's 46. I hope that the second vote on the proposal for a decision will be valid. For the second time, we are voting on the proposal for a decision, as I have presented it. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. As I have informed you, only one amendment has been tabled, namely Article 35. The amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 35. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 35 as a whole. We're voting. Unfortunately, the vote was invalid. So we're going to have to have a device, so I'm taught that a technical device, if everything's not flawless, select this kind of message itself. We therefore repeat the vote on Article 35 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Since we have held a debate and a decision on the amendment tabled, we are moving on to a debate and a decision on the other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 45 of us present, I think there are more of us, so I politely ask you to press one of the buttons, and we're coming to an end. I very much ask that we now make a valid vote, because there are just as many of us in the Chamber as there were in the previous vote. So I repeat the second time. We vote on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 35 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Before this, I ask the secretariat whether there has been any non-compliance with the provisions of the law due to the amendment adopted? [[It didn't come.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government. Your Honor, if you allow me, because there are no government representatives for the 40th item of the agenda, just a message - please note - on the bench you are about to receive a harmonisation amendment to the Road Transport Act. Please be so careful that we are still voting on this harmonisation amendment in the third reading, and then we are done for this week. We'll wait another second for the harmonisation amendment to be split so you can get to know it. So we're moving on to the treatment of DISCONTINUED 5. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for a Transport Act in Road Traffic, Quick Procedure. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted [[What we now got on the bench]] two harmonisation amendments. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no representative of the secretariat. Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[No, no, ……]] It is not possible to discuss the content of the harmonisation amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 51. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I apologize, but when I look at the list of these amendments, as well as the proposal for a second reading, as is known from this, Article 120 has not been amended at all in the second reading. Then we cannot make an amendment to Article 120. Now I can't stand it. The practice is that we have to respect the rules of procedure. I'm not going to support this, and I think it's against the rules of procedure. But if the explanation is different, please explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. A representative of the Secretariat just joined us. I think she'll give you an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. For the reasons set out in the explanatory memorandum to Article 120, the Secretariat assessed the need to ensure a uniform approach concerning those solutions relating to the postponement of certain articles of the proposed law to the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. The articles were amended from 54th to 59th. But they weren't articles that are then listed in the explanation, that's 21. 22 and 23, which are then contained in the proposed amendment to Article 120. In this way we assess the consistency of the text of the law. However, the amendments were accepted at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I think you can be satisfied with the explanation. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 120. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 5. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the proposal. I'm sorry. I'm calling off the vote. I overlooked Mr Sok's explanation of vote first and then Mr Kelemina. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The basic purpose of the law is to enable car carriers to access the service market as easily as possible, namely transport, transport and transport of goods and passenger transport. What this law brings are the main burdens, both on the economic side and on the administrative side. In our opinion, this law is written on the skin of large companies, with a lot of capital, which, if I may say so, will lead to auto-transport cannibalism. It is simply going to shut down certain small car companies or individual road hauliers. That is why I will not personally support this law, nor will the Members of our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much, for your word, respectable, respectable all together. Personally, as well as our parliamentary group in most of this proposal will not support the law. This is for a number of reasons, because, according to our assessment and according to the assessment of many others in this House, but this will not be said in public, the law is fundamentally outlawed, non-European, opaque, unclear, discriminatory, but a large number of problems will appear in implementation. All the consequences that will arise from the forced adoption of this law because of the non-compliance with those affected with the implementation of this law, please write down those who will support this law. Only if I mention one thing where at the last minute, you seem to have committed all your obligations to the local community, so to speak. Previously it has been stipulated that the local communities will help to acquire these parking spaces, only ensure in spatial acts that this is settled and then no longer their concern. I do not think that this was so in the original concept, and then there is a whole series of other irregularities, and also because you did not in any way wish to take into account the comments that we made in the second and third readings, in the amendment, to be submitted by the Members of the Social Democratic Party, so we will not support this law. However, there may also be some good solutions that are worth supporting, but we feel that it is so bad that we do not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-06-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31 to 13. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. Your Honor! Before we finish, just allow me this message. The 7th meeting will continue on Tuesday 17 July at 2 p.m., with the consideration of the 40th item of the agenda, possibly with consideration of 26, if the working body has an opinion, and then on the agenda. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Goodbye.
