ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Andrej Gerenčer, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Franc Kangler, mag. Janez Drobnic, Ljubo Germič for the beginning of the session, Yuri Malovrej for the beginning of the session, Davorin Terčon for the afternoon part of the session, Rudolf Može from 2.40 p.m. on, Danica Simšič for the beginning of the session, Ivan Bozič from 17:00 p.m. on and Stanislav Brenčič for the morning part of the session. Since we will be able to determine the presence, please kindly insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. There are 38 of us present. I think there are more of us, so I politely ask for your attention, because next time we'll find out where we are. There are 44 of us present. That way we can't start work. In accordance with Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure, we have to stop work for 15 minutes. In view of the fact that several colleagues and colleagues have come to the hall this moment, I respectfully ask you to be present. Your Honor, if you don't mind, we'll re-examine the presence. There's a lot of work ahead of us, and I think it's right, given that the hall is full, that we start work. Please press the "quorum" button politely. We're detecting a presence. 52 Members and Members are present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Today's session of the 9th session of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda, this is an act setting up a parliamentary inquiry to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk. We will then continue the meeting with the 3rd item and in order of course. So we're going to move on to 2. On a daily basis, this is an act of defence concerning the determination of a parliamentary inquiry into the background and the causes of the attack on the journalist of Peace Friday and the possible impact and political accountability of the holders of public functions and of the exploration of the environment and the reasons for restricting the journalistic freedom of expression and writing in the context of the attack on Friday's peace journalists. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the request for a parliamentary inquiry was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 40 Members with the first-signed Bogomir Zámernik. Does the representative of the motioners want a word? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! On March 31, 2001, two strangers in front of the apartment house in Mežica attacked tonight’s journalist Mir Petk and beat him severely to continue treating him in the intensive section of the Slovenian hospital, and the consequences of the attack are now more than six months after the attack. According to the police, the attack on the journalist was very brutal, grave and also humiliating. It is a low physical attack on a respected journalist, known among Korosci as a good, prudent and prudent journalist, and at the same time it is an attack on journalistic work, public speaking, democracy and freedom of expression. Despite intense and determined search, the police have so far failed to find the culprits, and the threats to the press continue. Apart from the moral support of other aid, it was not granted. According to previous data, the attack was caused by journalistic writing about criminal events and illegal acts in Koroška. Journalist Miro Petek openly wrote about prominent locals, namely, Korean economists and politicians who were involved in a wide variety of interesting stories, while holding to professional writing standards and writing with great courage about matters that came to them. Some of the cases reported by the journalist have also been dealt with by the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Property Transformation and Privatisation for the period 1996-2000, which has also been brought to the attention of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly. According to public information so far, journalists are likely to have been attacked because we did not want or because they did not want the public image of some of the well - known people who wrote about them to be exposed to illegality and connections with the economy and influential personalities of the rest of their lives. After writing to the media, the transitive rich in Koroška are expected to be strongly linked to the political and governmental circles there, and the links are expected to reach political summits in the country. There is a risk that such attacks would become a constant practice of intimidation of all those who are critical of and write about the events in Slovenian society. This is an attempt at intimidation and a warning to all those working in the field of research journalism. In the society of journalists, they said they were expecting the early enlightenment of the background and the success of the search for attackers, as the beatings that fell after a journalistic colleague fell on the whole of Slovenian journalism. Since the Slovenian Society of Journalists and the Slovenian Press Union have also informed the international press association, the European Press Union and the European Commission about the event, it is essential for the reputation of Slovenia and its legal order that the State Assembly, with the funds available to it, also help clarify the background of the attack on the journalist. The communication of the international conference, held in Zagreb in early March 2000, organised by OSCE and the Council of Europe, is that without the effective protection of journalists and their sources, there is no freedom of the media. The Ombudsman, Matjaž Hanžek, also responded to the attack, stressing that there should be no social life that journalists should not write about. He believes that society is better off completely to detect as many irregularities as possible. Friday’s colleagues in the Evening magazine stress that "when organised crime begins to be brutally charged with journalists, anyone who cares about democracy in some society must be seriously concerned. It is not only the lives of journalists that are at risk; it is the independence of the media; it is simply an assassination of free speech. This tragic event against journalist Mir Petk and Slovenian journalism is also a serious attack on the 39th article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees freedom of expression, speech and public performance, the press and other forms of information and expression. For everyone can freely choose, accept, and spread consciences and opinions. In a physical attack, however, it is an obvious attempt to silence a free public word. We therefore believe that it is necessary to set up an investigative commission as soon as possible, and also by decisive action within the competence of the National Assembly, to protect the public word." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Dr. Andrej Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! This initiative is crucial for our parliamentary group, and I am sure that the entire political body of Slovenia is crucial. It's not just one journalist's attack or journalism. This is an attack on our democracy and an attack on the fundamental right that every citizen and every citizen has to know what is actually going on. We're very proud and we're talking about an information society. We also now have computers available in our National Assembly, and we watch and read and help with everything technology offers us today. What good is all this if we do not have an independent, independent, simple house of journalists and journalists who can tell us all and communicate their assessment of what is going on in our society? An open modern society requires this, so we strongly and resolutely support this proposal and hope that it will also be accepted by the State Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since no member group wants to present its opinion again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Mr. Tone Partich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u6	I apologize, Madam Vice-President, even though I saw another colleague try to reach out. Alone with all that was said, of course, I would have nothing to add. I only hope that the clear competences of the Commission will be clear and that - I will be more interested in the responsibility of the authorities that have studied so far, and that it would not remain in some doubt that this is directly linked to the tops of government and that this will be revealed. But I'd say another case myself. I have also signed this initiative, I think it is excellent, and I do not want to be in anything, nor do I have the right to be controversial, and I just agree. I would point out, however, that in recent years we have experienced quite a number of similar attacks, one almost similar to brutal ones, to people from political structures. I remember first Tonet Anderlič, I witnessed the attack on Ambassador Omerzo, I remember the case of Councilman Poldet Bibic, who was brutally beaten in the garage, and I remember breaking into the house of a Moroccan fellow Member, Rudi Mojet. I mean, as it is right that we have advocated this, it has always seemed kind of strange to me that in our own way we are indifferent to things that are already happening alive to some people in the system of the state system; I think it would be worth paying attention to that too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u8	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I will support this decision and also the establishment of a commission. However, this thing, the act we are going to adopt today, shows that our authorities, which should investigate certain things, are ineffective. The things we also have in Parliament to effectively monitor these bodies do not work. On this occasion, I will once again tell my distinguished colleagues and colleagues that Parliament should have authorities to oversee the work of intelligence services in a certain part of the office of the criminal police, but if this thing does not move anywhere, and if these things are repeated, I would ask you to understand that when we consider such a law or parts of the law, also that Parliament is monitoring that, as before, respected colleagues and colleagues, this commission to which Jerovšek presides has always received support - so we are somewhere on this good path. I want this committee to have a lot of success in reaching some conclusions and that this would be a commission that would, in the first place, look at how our national authority works, including the Director General of Police, and down with all the other things, that in our democracy such a thing has not been able to move so much, and it has also been due to this inefficiency to receive this political note that Parliament is now discussing it. It seems to me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we should strain our species so that such things do not come to pass. On the one hand, those who will be given this honour by Parliament to participate in this parliamentary group, on the other hand, in order to make the commissions that we have at our disposal even a little more effective than they have done in the past decade. I therefore call on you once again on this occasion, once again, when there is a law on the supervision of security and intelligence services, to support this Parliament and to ensure that Parliament has effective control over what is happening there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr Barovic [[...]] Your Honor! In view of Dr. Bayuk’s request to make a positive decision by the National Assembly, allow only a business explanation. The National Assembly will not vote. After the constitution, given that a third of the members of the National Assembly have made a request, they will only order and call on the Elections and Appointments Commission to appoint a commission. By politely asking you to limit yourself to the part in which we can intervene in any debate, which is possible proposals to extend or supplement this proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, which, of course, the applicants must fully agree with. By politely asking you to stick to this business dimension in the debates. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. You said the exact moment. It's about setting up a national council to start an investigation. And you've also said, I'm also the initiator of this, in fifth place, signed that it's not just one case that we're talking about right now. From my own experience, I can say that the pressure on journalists, reporters, writers, everyone who co-forms the information world in this country is more pressure, and that there are many forms of pressure. The one we are witnessing to him more specifically is just one form of pressure on those who inform Slovenians about the situation. It is therefore appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt this provision. In addition, I would point out that when this order is adopted and this committee is set up to attempt to prevent all types and forms of pressure in this country from being psychological, physical and any other form of pressure. On behalf of myself, and also on behalf of my colleagues, I can say that this is an act that we are taking today, the real act of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, then Mr. Kremjar and Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u12	Yes, thank you very much for your word. In the Social Democratic Party, we consider, unlike some fellow Members of Parliament, that this establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry does not involve any supervision or control over the functioning of the existing services investigating this case, but in particular does not involve any mistrust in the institutions dealing with this case of crime. It is mainly the gesture of the National Assembly, in the intention of the National Assembly to reveal the background of this brutal and brutal attack on journalism and specifically on the journalist. I think that the objective and focus of this investigative commission is here, because we believe that the issue has a strong background, including the holders of public powers and public functions, and we believe that this is the objective of this investigative commission, not to deal with some institutions that are not or are not working according to the assessment of some individuals here. Therefore, this establishment of a commission is an upgrade, upgrade or any assistance to existing bodies in the investigation and work on this case. And I am sure that the Commission of Inquiry, which will carry out its work, can make an important contribution to the epilogue of this story, particularly in identifying the background of this tragic event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The attack on journalist Petka must have been an attack on freedom of the public word, and of course the Commission will not only, I mean, investigate who attacked journalist Petko, but the result of the work of the Commission must be protection of the public word wherever it is and wherever it is. I think we're going in the wrong direction if we're going to make this commission either a political battlefield or a backup police or a prosecutor's office. Neither is the purpose nor is it recorded in the acts relating to the commission. The Commission must be. The work of the Commission will be good and effective if it is fast; if this is the Commission, like many others, that has taken place in this Parliament in previous times, some are not comparable to this, the whole mandate and more, two mandates, then of course this will not be effective and will not be a good job. This commission will have to do the work quickly, and if it is done quickly, then the Commission's purpose will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you, Vice President. I am one of those few who have never been overconfident that our investigative commissions could produce some great success. Of course, the past shows that we had doubts. However, the point is that this time - and I hope that greater success will be - we will put our pressure on ourselves, not only on the appropriate authorities, to finally get to the bottom of a story that raises questions about the whole system of free public words. As I come from the journalistic species and say that we must protect the public word that we must prevent any appearance of intimidation by journalists, whether physically or verbally or otherwise, of course, even on this occasion, with our decision to set up this commission and with the help that we must all give in order to bring our mission to a successful conclusion, we must also be aware that our words, sometimes critical to the way in which journalists are reported, are coming out of this context. And we also have to keep an eye on that; let the journalist be critical as an investigator, let the journalist be critical until the war in Afghanistan and so on. So it's about providing journalists with a place where they can do their job in a free, consistent way, even with their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact that I do not think it is possible to overlook is that this is the non-trust of the work of the authorities which have to and deal with the investigation of this case in accordance with legislation. If the case had been resolved, then it would not have been possible to set up a commission because it would have made no sense. That's the first thing to do, and here's to keep your eyes closed before that, at least I think it's embarrassing, if not stupid. The other thing is, this is just one case, for example, for one journalist. Other journalists, too, have problems in a variety of shocking situations, such as strong logs from various investors, politicians, and so on. Therefore, I will say, this second indent, unfortunately, is written - "to explore the circumstances and reasons for endangering journalistic freedom of expression and writing in the event of an attack on journalist Mir Petk" - therefore, only in this case. But I know, for example, that when a journalist wanted to bring a story to television from some construction lobby, the editor told him nicely that it was not going to work, because this company advertised a lot to them, and the interest, that is, his journalistic interest, that it would come to the public, and of course the economics, that the house would cover the costs. That's one. Secondly, I fear that there will be such a bad ghost in the end, the sound of the whole thing, because parliamentarians do not have the powers that criminals have. They won't be able to do what criminals are supposed to do. But I call on you, colleagues and colleagues, who will be on this committee - exactly as my colleague said, they don't know, they're not skills - but I urge you to think about why it is that criminals do not actually do their job. Ask yourself about the structure of the criminal service, i.e. by age, after their internship, how long they work in this service. I think the reasons are complex, they can't just be so uniformly labeled, but it would be appropriate to ask yourself, when you investigate them, why the police failed to get these things back to where they belong, and that's to the court.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Until this investigation is completed and the case is fully investigated, of course, it will be impossible to talk about why the attack occurred. So these may be speculative thoughts, may be such or different, but it is certainly impossible to say that there was an attack due to writing and so forth. There could have been something else in the background. And for this very reason, we probably all want this case to be investigated as soon as possible. See, in this country, in fact, many citizens are beaten weekly or daily, injured, could say cheated, but in fact, no one is taking much care of it. Perhaps the Ombudsman will warn once a year in his report and then move on. In this case, it was a journalist. Journalists are, in fact, those who should have this opportunity to clearly point to all these injustices by means of their writings and to publish them, thus helping to strengthen democracy. That's why I signed. Otherwise, of course, I take every journalist as a citizen of this country. And I was surprised by last night's TV show when some journalist refused to show me his ID, but we know that all citizens in this country are considered to be if the internal affairs authorities are legitimizing you, that you need to show me your ID. So I don't know why this all of a sudden belongs on TV and in the media. So, in this case, that's what this is about, and that's why I signed this to investigate. I certainly don't think there's any mistrust in law enforcement. I think that the law enforcement authorities are doing their job, but, of course, if people don't help them in the field, they may actually not be able to make progress in this process and investigate matters. As far as the commission is concerned, I can't imagine that this committee would do that. But, of course, the Commission could be in great moral support, perhaps even to all those where it happened, even to know what they knew, but so far they did not want to talk about it, and when this Commission is set up, they could say free of that fear, and they could say so, or help the law enforcement authorities to complete the matter as soon as possible. So in this desire, I added my signature. But I can't imagine that this committee would do the job instead of the police. That is why there are others in this country, and once again I say that this Commission can support this investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Lavrinc and Mr Kremjar, allow me once again not to hear a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that the subject of the possible debate here is the content of an act which we may also extend and supplement. I therefore ask you politely not to leave this framework in your deliberations. I hope I'm clear enough. If anyone wants to expand and supplement an act whose content is before you or to complete it, you can do so. Your wish or change will only be heard if the applicants agree. The National Assembly does not vote on this act, but on the basis that a constitutional provision has been complied with, it merely orders a parliamentary inquiry. I ask you politely to speak truly about the act in your subsequent debates. I allow two more replicas, then I politely ask that we stick to this scale. Mr. Lavrinc and Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to tell Mr. Sok that we don't read the same text. But look what it says. The aim is to identify the backgrounds and causes, which means the motive for the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. If we count this as a minister first, then he's the director of the police, then there's the mayors and so on. So you talk like someone's obstructing the police from doing their job. It's an untrustworthy thing. If the police had done their job, I was talking about the criminal police, it would have been the result of her work as a result of a criminal prosecution, the perpetrators would have stood before a judge today and advocated this brutal attack. It's an untrustworthy thing. Don't paint things because there's a person there that smells. Don't paint. This is an untrustworthy one, and it is also the purpose of establishing this commission. Look, explore the circumstances and the reasons. What's the other one? In fact, all of this must be prepared by criminals, so that the state prosecutor can then, on the basis of their criminal complaint, draw up an indictment and that the proceedings run as they should if my cases were closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. A replica of the implementation of Mr Sok, Mr Kremjar, then Mr Similar to the implementation of Mr Lavrinc. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We are all concerned when we find out that people are being beaten, as Mr Sok said - that is, I replicate Mr Sok - and for this, of course, are law enforcement, is the police, is the prosecution to resolve this, and we have to lay the groundwork for them to do so, and that is the legislation we are adopting and it is also. But when it comes to attacking a journalist when it comes to attacking a politician when it comes to attacking a public person who is not only a citizen but also something else - and here I mean no more than others, but I am doing some work that is more sensitive than some other part - in this case, of course, it can also be assumed that it is not just an attack on a person, on physics, but that it is an attack on, in this case, a public word, it can attack to silence, prevent, and that it is no longer. And that's why it's important, not because journalists are supposed to be excluded from this society, or because politicians are supposed to be, not to say, holy cows, not at all, but because it's a broader context, it can be a broader context, and that needs to be established. I'm not going to repeat what Comrade Lavrinc said. If the work had been done, this commission would not have been; it is a fact. We are setting up a commission because we are not satisfied that the work has not yet been done, at least that is how I am taking the matter, and I think that most of the colleagues sitting here. And that's why we have to do it. And I'm going to repeat what I said before, the work needs to be done quickly, and whether or not any of us who will or will participate in this committee will like the outcome of this commission's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Spožnik has a replica of the implementation of Mr Lavrinac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that I have signed my own request for a parliamentary inquiry, and if Quiaz decides to do so, I will also be a member of it. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Lavrinca for a moment. Indeed, it is a matter of the procedure itself and of the content of this requirement. We are ahead of the introduction of a minority parliamentary investigation, and we also have a majority. It is interesting that we are mostly deciding on minority parliamentary investigations; on the fact that we are signatories from all parliamentary groups, we would even be able to introduce a majority parliamentary inquiry in this case. If we went to look closely at the procedure, we would see that there are differences in how the National Assembly votes and how it can expand or reduce the scope of the parliamentary investigation. We are therefore before a minority parliamentary inquiry and, Vice-President, you have already stated the purpose of this debate. The purpose of this debate is to determine whether it is introduced or determined to the extent and content defined in the request. The National Assembly may extend or supplement such an investigation, but only if it is in accordance with the object and purpose of the requested investigation and if the applicant agrees accordingly with the request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry [[I read from the master's section of our former colleague Mozetič]] . But look at what it says: "In a minority investigation they can appear in the debate," so today here, "the heavy and serious argumented objections or concerns about the legality of the requested investigation. Serious objections may arise that the investigation requested does not concern matters falling within the competence of the National Assembly, that the proposed investigation is illegal and so on." At least I don't think there's been any such objections today. I am acting as a colleague of Lavrinc, especially when he said that it was not a matter of trust to the competent authorities, I did not understand, as if it was such an objection, so that it was a substantive issue, perhaps a more political assessment. However, I think it is important that we resolve these doubts in this debate. My colleague Lavrinc, I am firmly convinced that the introduction of this minority parliamentary investigation is not a mistrust to the state authorities operating within their powers. I'll try to argue my position with the next quote. What is the purpose of the parliamentary investigation?" Through parliamentary inquiry, the National Assembly shall exercise the functions of wider social control. Parliamentary investigation shall be conducted on matters of public interest in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, one area for amending legislation in a particular area and for other decisions of the national assembly under its constitutional competence. We find from the legal definition of the parliamentary investigation that it is intended to identify and assess different situations and phenomena in society. Different situations and phenomena in society in order for the National Assembly to take the necessary decisions, which are within its constitutional and legal competence. Different situations and phenomena in society are assessed from a political perspective." Comrade Lavrinc, this is a quote from the law or from the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. And I believe that this requirement is entirely in line with this. However, two more sentences," the parliamentary investigation is not a substitute for the procedure for detecting and prosecuting crimes," you pointed out in the debate, colleague Lavrinc," or other irregularities, and in particular there is no trial. Its main purpose is to examine situations and phenomena in society, not political or even criminal prosecution of public function holders." On the basis of this quote, I am convinced that the National Assembly is ahead of the task of fully shaping the composition and starting a successful work in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure on parliamentary investigation, which is a minority, this time. Here I would like to join my colleague Rudi Mojet's good wishes that this parliamentary commission of inquiry be as successful as possible in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have another replica to implement Mr Lavrinc, Mr Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. So in my explanation, I wanted to say why I signed this proposal to set up a commission, and I don't really understand why I challenged two replicas of my fellow Members because, as far as Mr Kremjar's performance is concerned, he actually found the same thing as me. Thus, we are all the same under the Constitution, but because it is a journalist, because it is the holder of special powers in this society, it is necessary to deal with the matter so much more sensitively and to prevent this matter from having an impact on others. And once again, until the investigation is completed, it is impossible to say why this attack occurred. But as for the second conclusion that this is a non-trust issue for the police, I certainly did not feel that way. The Commission cannot do the work that the police have to do under our constitution and our legislation. The Commission can only support it. And I say this because there are many opinions in the public, why the National Assembly is setting up commissions when it is already known that they will not do anything. Or at least those who have been established so far have not come to an end. It is also said that the Commission does not have an instrument with which it could fully carry out this work, and as Mr Podobnik quoted from me some articles on the work of the Commission, it is considered that the law enforcement authorities must do so. The Commission can therefore help those who do so to guide and can offer moral support in this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I am also among the signatories to this initiative, and therefore I do not want others to say what I meant when I signed this initiative, as I allow someone to sign it for the reasons that are being explained at this time. Contrary to Mr Soko, I do not think any investigative commission can direct the work of the police. This is, I'll say, confused by the logic of the division of power and is, of course, in conflict with all the legislation that talks about this area. If in this case it is only to give some moral support to Mr Petk, or also to those who, for the time being, are trying to explore this background, then the parliamentary commission as an instrument is not appropriate. For this purpose, the relevant declarations and declarations shall be accepted. I myself have signed the initiative primarily for the reason that it is confirmed or rejected that these state structures, so to speak, can be thought of by the police and the ministry first, and thus, of course, also by the holders of public functions in any way involved. This thesis also appeared. I believe that it is very good for the functioning of the entire system, and here I support Mr Kremjar to get a clear view as soon as possible of the fact that they are holders of public functions, I hope that in this case he is completely clean, as this is the term. I believe that the investigation will have to focus primarily on this. To help criminals, I can't imagine. There's no such thing in the world. That means, I'll say, some horrendous mistruster then, as Mr Lavrinc has said, to the services that we pay heavily, and to the services that we keep giving them some powers that they can't always use. Remember the humorous ride two days ago before Penn Club where they arrested people who each Monday at the same time appear in the same place every 15 years. This means that someone does not have a proper safety assessment if he cannot identify those ten people who meet at the same table during the 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, the assembly on the request for a parliamentary inquiry, as I have already informed you, does not vote. I therefore note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The purpose of the investigation is to identify the backgrounds and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and to explore the circumstances and reasons for the threat of journalistic freedom of expression and writing in the event of an attack on journalist Mir Petk. I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission shall, as soon as possible in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry, submit to the assembly a proposal for a decision establishing and drawing up an investigative commission." Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 63 votes against one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence announcements by the District Court in Ljubljana in connection with the filed individual action by the Member of State of the Republic of Slovenia. A notice concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly, Dr Slavko Gabra, submitted to the assembly for consideration by the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Division. The notification was addressed by a mandate-immunity committee which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? The chairman of the commission, Mr. Sasho Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honors are here! At its previous two meetings, the Commission addressed the matter, if I may call it, Mr Slavko Gabra, on the basis of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact or the fact that Mr Slavko Gaber did not invoke immunity throughout the process and did not ask the Commission to grant him immunity. For this reason, we have also reached the conclusion you have reached on the table today, that is, that immunity has not been granted to him. In addition to the fact that Dr. Slavko Gaber has submitted his position to the Commission in writing, which is also the basis for our action, we propose to the National Assembly that it adopt this proposed or contained decision that you have received at the table today. This is to quote only the last article, or last paragraph, so that "it does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Slavko Gabr and allow the continuation of the criminal procedure," which is also in accordance with the letter sent to us by Mr Gaber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 38(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the establishment or withdrawal of parliamentary immunity without discussion and without explanation of the votes cast. Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the third paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, operative number K 441/99 of 9.7.2001 concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly, Dr. Slavko Gabra, for the offence of an offensive charge under Article 171 of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, shall not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr. Slavko Gabru and permit the continuation of the criminal procedure." We are voting on this decision. Let's vote! I'm calling off the vote. Only a procedural proposal is possible at this stage. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u34	I apologize for my awkwardness in relation to that third point, which we are considering, namely the notification of the District Court and the decision. I'd like to complete the report. This is the case in paragraph 3 of the report with an unloving error where it is misquoted that Mr Gaber refers to immunity. Mr Slavko Gaber does not refer to immunity and this was also the basis for our decision. I sincerely apologize and at the same time thank the representatives of liberal democracy who have warned me about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are once again voting on the proposal for a decision as presented. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence announcements by the District Court on the road in connection with the filed individual application by the Member of State of the Republic of Slovenia. A notice concerning the application for investigation lodged against the Member of the National Assembly, Jožef Jerovška, was submitted to the District Court in Ptuj for consideration. The notice was addressed by a mandate-immunity commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the basis of Article 38(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the establishment or withdrawal of parliamentary immunity without discussion and without explanation of the votes cast. We therefore proceed to a decision on the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court of Ptuj, operative number KPR 70/2001 of 27.8.2001 concerning the application for an investigation lodged against the Member of the National Assembly of Mr Jožef Jerovsk for the offence of endangering safety at work after the second, third and fifth paragraphs of Article 208 of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, recognises the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Jožef Jerovšk and does not allow the continuation of the criminal procedure." We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 33. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 4th A-point of the agenda, which is to amend the report on economic companies, businesses or enterprises, for which the first paragraph of paragraph 20 is applicable. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? He's not here? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written reports. Therefore, the discussion of a possible debater is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The national working body shall propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to five. It's the third draft of the bookstore law. At its 8th meeting, the National Assembly held a vote on the amendments tabled and, following a warning from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, that the amendments adopted violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, ended the consideration of the law. As a proponent of the bill, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared the harmonisation amendments you have received with reference to the meeting. Does the government want a word? Mr. Cyril Baskovic, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly! I would just like to say, for the sake of clarity, that the adoption of the amendment, the harmonisation amendment to Article 63, this is point 8 of the amendment, means what is written in the explanatory memorandum, the editorial repeal of Article 64, since this is literally summarised in the first paragraph 63 following a new one. I just wanted to say it for clarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendments. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments as received from 18.10.2001. They were presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 45. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 58. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment under order number 3 to Article 57. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment under order number 4. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment under order number 5. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We move to the vote on the harmonisation amendment under order number 6. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We move to the vote on the harmonisation amendment under order number 7. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We move to the vote on the harmonisation amendment under order number 8. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We move to the vote on the last harmonisation amendment, under order number 9. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We still have to vote on the proposal in full. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 41 to 10. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry and the Secretariat very much for their cooperation. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Otherwise, you have already declared that you have completed this item on the agenda, but still. I would like to point out if, at the time of the adoption of the law, we could possibly add a certain decision which relates to the current situation at the time of this adoption. However, the decision is binding [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u39	Your Honor, we're done here. The National Assembly should decide to reopen it and you should propose a proposal for an additional decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u40	No, no, no. Then I will withdraw, and the question that I now wanted to raise - the unrelated financial consequences that the law does not mention - I have opened up in the consideration of the 2002 and 2003 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. So we're going to go to 6. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on state administration. I invite representatives of the Ministry as candidates to the Chamber. The Ministry's representatives will be joining us at any time, so they'll let us know, so I think it's right that we wait a minute. The proposal for a law on State administration was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Dr. Grega Virant, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Sorry I'm late first. The problem of information, as usual. So, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for these breathtaking words, too. The Law on State Administration is an integral part of the reform of public administration, for which we point out that, of course, it is not only in legal projects, but that a major part of the changes in the field of state administration are taking place at the implementation or operational level. With this, I would like to point out that, of course, there is no possibility in the law on state administration that you can see some magic wand that would only change completely overnight after the legislator's decision, alterations, improve our state administration. However, this law, which has long been included in the national programme for adapting our legislation to Europe and, as such, is of course important from this point of view. Secondly, the law that we want to use to make some moves, that is, some improvements at the legal level, regulation of the state administration, but we do. What's the current situation? So a few words about the analysis of the current state of law regulation of the state administration. We have two laws governing the state administration, these are the law on administration and the law on the organisation and employment of ministries; both adopted in 1994 and both of them are a pretty good legal basis, a pretty good legal framework for the functioning of the state administration. Of course, there is no need for legal reform in this area to be radical. This means that, of course, a better approach is a smaller approach, i.e. a change in the legal regime in those points which have proved inappropriate and, of course, maintaining as much stability as possible in this macro-organisation framework of the state administration. Indeed, stability is one of the important values that facilitate the functioning of the state administration. Any earthquake, any organizational earthquake, can have serious consequences and needs to be carefully considered first. The problems of the current legislation that the new law solves are as follows. The first problem is governance in the state administration or a more precise distinction between political functions and professional, official, managerial positions. In all European countries, a relatively clear distinction has been drawn between one and the other and it is well known who is a political official in the executive branch and who is a government official or administrative manager. We do not have these boundaries today, and we have a huge number of people in the executive branch who are formally political officials and can be set up and exchanged by the government in their own political opinion, so they can also be formally set by customer criteria, although they are on the other hand professionally leading the work in specific areas. I am specifically referring to the position of State secretaries with this ambivalent role, on the one hand, to professional leadership and, on the other hand, to the position of political officials. I am also referring to the heads of the bodies of the ministries which have the same situation: on the one hand, they are the professional heads of these bodies or the areas covered by these bodies, on the other hand, they have the status of a political officer. So, the first problem is the problem of a vague distinction between political functions and professional positions in the state administration. I am not talking about a strict separation between politics and expertise, because here I am joining those who say that there is no clear distinction here, but a distinction between positions that are political and positions that are official. The next thing is the problem of regulating areas of work. Today, the working areas of the ministries are very, very minute, precisely, Piccolo and unbalanced in the law on the organisation and work of ministries. This has proved to be the case in the last amendment to the Law on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministries. Indeed, it turned out that the National Assembly had to deal with relatively less important, i.e. politically less important, purely organisational matters in the state administration. The next question is the question of authorities in the composition of ministries. So the bodies within the composition of the ministries today have relative autonomy, which have existed in the Slovenian government for some ten years and whose number has been constantly multiplying, so that we have finally reached the number of over 60, with the last amendment of the law on organisation and employment of the ministries reducing it to about 50, and, of course, it shows that their number is still too large and that for some there is no valid justification for why they act as bodies in the composition. The following is the fact that the current regulation lacks a clear legal basis for regulating the introduction of quality into the public administration and, in particular, the operation of the state administration with the parties. We would like to place this area at a higher qualitative level, standardised it - it has already been partially done by a regulation on the operation of public administration bodies with the parties, but we would like to make it very clear in the initial provisions of the State Administration Act, among the principles, that the government has the authority to regulate these issues, namely, for all public administrations. The next problem is the control problem. Today, there is no horizontal control over the functioning of the public administration system, there is no control over the internal organisation of the state administration, there is no control over the human resources business of the public administration and other business elements, and of course this represents a significant disadvantage. There are also shortcomings in the regulation of administrative units, where the relationship between the administrative unit or its chief and the departmental ministries is unclear. In short, today the Chief of Management has a whole range of bosses, I can put it that way, and is responsible to everyone or no one. And another problem that we all feel in the bang. A significant fragmentation of the state administration in the field, i.e. territorial organisations of the state administration. If you look only at the level of administrative units, you will, of course, see that at the same level there are also exposures of tax offices, exposures of district geodesic administrations and other authorities. And now to the solutions that the proposed law offers for the problems described. In the first articles, you will find some principles among the principles that may not have a direct legal effect, but they can be very important, for example, in labour disputes, in questions of the disciplinary responsibility of officials and so on. I mean, let's say, on an extremely important principle covered by Article 3, expertise, the principle of professionalism, political neutrality and impartiality of the state administration, which, of course, means that the State Administration must respect and implement every single policy set out in the acts of the National Assembly and the Government, but that State officials or public administrations must carry out these political decisions in an equally effective manner, whether or not the individual national official or the administrative chief agrees with this policy. I could have taken any case. Regardless of what the Head of the Administrative Unit thinks about the policy of regulating the premises in his congregation, the concepts of denationalisation, or any similar task of the administrative unit, it is that, with the same degree of commitment, he enforces the law effectively, whether officials agree with it or not. That's political neutrality. We believe it is right that this principle should be enshrined in the law. The principles relating to the business of the parties, Article 5, are important as a basis for all that is already taking place at the sub-legislative and operational level. In fact, you know that in recent decades, the state administration is no longer just looking at the legal profession or administrative law, but the law introduces new management principles. Important principles such as user orientation, efficiency, openness, transparency of the state administration are becoming important. We know what these principles mean in practice. It is right to enter into the law as a political definition, as a political orientation, which, of course, must be followed by the government and the competent ministries. As stated, the focus on the user is already subject to a sub-legislative regulation, this is a regulation on customer transactions and certain other regulations that are being prepared: regulations on electronic communications between the client and the authority; and operational measures that are not covered by the regulations but - for example - are covered by instructions to administrative units in the introduction of quality standards already in place by five administrative units, yesterday the fifth Slovenian administrative unit obtained an ISO 9000 certificate. If I shorten, it is a matter of writing down the principles which the government is then obliged to follow in the implementation of its measures in the field of state administration. It seems important to us that we include public agencies and other public authorities in the structure of public administration, although today you will also consider the law on public agencies in particular. It is a matter of showing clearly and transparently in the State Administration Act what the structure of the state administration will be after this legal reform and thus linking the State Administration Act with the Public Agencies Act. In order to make it perfectly clear that the public administration consists of ministries, bodies in their composition and administrative units and that, in addition to the public administration, public authorities, in particular public agencies, carry out administrative tasks. It's kind of a link between "link," if I may say so, by the law on public agencies. Solutions regarding the management of ministries. The political part of the Ministry, the political part of the executive branch, is represented by ministers and State secretaries, with the law in Article 17 providing a solution that there may be a maximum number of State secretaries in each ministry. This means that the political part of the executive branch of power is being reduced to the Prime Minister, the District Ministers, the Ministers without a Resource and, of course, a limited number of State Secretaries. Which is compared to today's situation when we have about 150 people who have political status, although sometimes they don't even realize it, of course a significant, significant qualitative shift. At the same time, following the example of European countries, we introduce the position of professional leaders of individual areas within the Ministry, namely the Directors-General. You will meet them abroad under the name of "director general", i.e. the Director-General for a particular area. Their status, their choice, their appointment, their discharge and so on will, of course, be governed by the Law on Public Servants. So if I translate the current situation into a future, after these laws, which also have relevant transitional periods, the Ministry will be headed by a minister, the political part of the management will be represented by the Secretary of State and, in particular, as the management team, the Directors-General and the Secretary-General as a technical manager in the Ministry. So much for running. The question of organs in the system. The law contains a solution whereby the bodies in the constitution are no longer defined by law, but are determined by the government by a regulation. Here, of course, the proponent was before the dilemma of what is better: whether to let the bodies in the composition continue to be determined by law, and thus somehow increase the stability of this structure, or allow the government itself, as the one responsible for organising the state administration, to tell which segments of the administration will operate with a greater degree of autonomy than the bodies in the composition. A second solution was adopted, of course, taking into account the warnings of the legal profession before the second reading, in order to probably show some of the more important, larger, key bodies in the composition, the larger bodies of the state administration, which need to ensure certain stability and which are regulated even by extensive sectoral laws in order to write them down in the law and leave the rest to the government to regulate. The question concerning the bodies in the composition was also a question of their independence, where there was also a whole series of dilemmas; already at the level of the proposer there were a lot of conceptual differences about how to regulate the autonomy of the organs in the composition. The debate on the labour market has shown that before reading this provision further, it will be necessary to think carefully and to put a solution in such a way that it will be flexible enough to allow, on the one hand, for those bodies in the composition where it does not make sense to be independent budgetary users and to have their services, of course to prohibit or terminate, for those who, due to their scale, because of their specific nature, have a greater autonomy, but, of course, retain the status of a self-sustaining budgetary user and thus have financial autonomy, knowing that those in whom it is rational will also be allowed to organise their services. The difference has to be taken into account and it has been pointed out whether it is a body with 5,000 employees or a body with 40 employees. The second probably makes no sense that it has its own human resources, accounting and financial services organised, and that at the first, centralisation could lead to exactly the opposite of what we want, it is said, a suffocation of the system. How, then, will a state administration be organised under the State Administration Act? The macronivoire is no different than it is today. If you see conservativeism, the answer can be: with the existing macro-organizational structure of the state administration, it is not so bad that it needs to be radically changed. However, changes due only to changes are, of course, completely pointless. In the area of administrative units, we set a clearer relationship. The chief of the administrative unit is - or otherwise, the administrative unit of the department gives substantive instructions for its work - i.e. how laws are implemented in specific areas - and exercise control over the work of the administrative unit, substantive control in their segments. General business, from the point of view of general business: official hours, business arrangements with customers, documentary operations, administrative procedure, organisation of official hours, staff matters, financial matters, of course, the administrative unit is linked to the Ministry of the Interior or the Chief is responsible to the Minister of the Interior. The Chief of Management must have, must not be in a schizophrenic situation, must have one boss and this chief should be the Minister responsible for the administration. These solutions are, of course, coordinated with administrative units. The administrative units themselves have called for such clearer definitions. With regard to the existence of administrative units, the question is often raised why this law no longer foresees the new territorial structure of our country, or why it does not foresee the emergence of landscapes and their impact on the territorial organisation of the state administration. The answer to this question is: because this moment is not necessary. When the provinces are established and they begin, so when they are ready to take action, it should be stressed that the primary importance of the province as a wider local community is, of course, not in how the state administration will reorganise. The primary importance of the province is to take over certain powers, i.e. the governance rights exercised by the State today, although these are matters of regional importance; to take over regional development planning into its own hands; to take over spatial planning in its own hands to take over regional infrastructure; and to take over all these secondary networks in the field of health, education, transport and the like. Of course, the reform of the state administration is also involved. Thus, when the provinces arise, it is necessary to consider at the same time how this can be used to reorganise the state administration. And how to take advantage of it, so what is the vision if I can say so, or the concept. The State Administration is already operating in some areas of the Trinity. Many state administration organisations are regionally organised: regional geodetic administrations, tax offices, district inspectorates, regional units of pension and disability insurance and so on. They are all based on a regional organisation. So the center, the regional organisation, and then it usually stands out on the lower level that's closest to the customer. Which means, of course, that under the conditions of the province, it will be possible to unify all this regional network of state administrations into a single organisation and at the same time to draw certain functions into this single organisation, to draw into this single organisation certain functions of administrative units which today prove to be unreasonably organised and that there is no need for them to be carried out at 58 locations in the country, but could be carried out at a smaller number, not to mention a specific number, because I do not want to pre-judge the number of provinces in this debate, of course. The concept that we have here clearly outlined, although you will say, although it is not reflected in the state administration law, is, to unify the state administration at regional level. On the other hand, the question remains whether the single administration will be responsible to the provincial policy, whether it will continue to be responsible to the ministries and ministers responsible for the administration. Here I can only say that my personal position is this different, that the state administration, like that apparatus, should perform tasks that must be very standardised, increasingly standardised, increasingly uniform, which must provide the same standard of service to all citizens, regardless of which region they live in, that this must be centralised. So, to unify the state administration at regional level - already existing regional geodetic administrations, tax offices, district inspection units and the like - and a certain part of the tasks of today's administrative units to shift to the regional level and maintain the third level - read: today's administrative units, tax offices' exposures, geodetic administrations' exposures as those units that serve as direct service to citizens. This concept is adopted, including, of course, in the field of tax administration, geodetic administration and is certainly very meaningful. So, summaries: the reorganisation of the state administration as a result of the emergence of the 'yes' landscapes, but - I would say - as a separate question, as a matter of question, which is not essential by the formation of the provinces as a way of decentralising the country and the new division of political power in the country. In addition, on the Internal Policy Committee, a transitional provision highlights certain government officials in management positions. Here, of course, the proposer agrees that the situation of these government officials should be regulated in a uniform manner, like all other government officials in management positions in the Public Servants Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you so much for the presentation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would say that this law, as we have adopted it, was taken as a legal basis for a major shift towards rationalisation and modernisation of our national administration, receiving considerable attention, after all, we did not end up at the 1st meeting when we started it, but we continued it at the next meeting. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, apart from matters that have been specifically exposed and mentioned by the bill-maker, I would only quickly recall the situation of the bodies in the composition and the position or question of the chiefs who are somehow artificially placed in this room, the space of this law has been highlighted in a number of cases. So, of course, there are a number of matters that he has been pointing out by the Secretariat itself, and of course matters that have seemed important to Members who are members of this Committee. All of this results in the fact that I will not be boring in the proposed first two conclusions, which are common and in the positions. At the same time, I must point out that there has been some awkwardness. The second additional decision was not a conclusion, but was intended as a 10th position. If the leadership of this national assembly, or you, the chairman, the Vice-President, thinks that this should be proposed in writing, I will propose in writing. Indeed, this flaw in the fact that laws will appear only in male form, we will, if we adopt the new rules of procedure, be put to an end. Otherwise, I would like to draw particular attention to the views which are somehow a majority opinion of the members of the Committee. First of all, the fact that, mostly or as a majority opinion, the law is praised as a quality move, as I said, in the direction we want. Secondly, I would particularly like to highlight the discussion that these laws must be carried out simultaneously - I am thinking about the law on public servants, the law on public agencies, this law and so on - also so that Members have a picture in front of them. And, as you will see at the next point, we propose a return to first reading. Secondly, in the first position, this discussion resulted in: whether and how the role of the body in the composition should be determined. Furthermore, we have specifically pointed out the Secretariat's consideration of the compatibility of Article 41, paragraph 1, with Article 174 of the Constitution. It was then particularly exposed and therefore found a position in the positions - these were powers for the Secretary of State to replace. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion, because there are quite a few of us who have experience in practice, with regard to the advice of the chiefs of administrative units, and with regard to the meaning of such an organisation, because it has not come to life. Then what I think is particularly important is that, on the basis of the laws, Members cannot have the whole picture of what the organisation of the state administration would look like, some scheme, what is going on and so on. Therefore, we have proposed an additional conclusion that by the time he brings the law into the second reading, at least roughly lay down how these things will stand. And, of course, there were also many discussions about why not here, on this occasion also to say something about the second level of local self-government, which will be a amphibian and will perform some administrative tasks. Well, and as the proposalr said, there was a general belief that such standardisation would be premature at a time when we did not even have an amended constitution. That'll be all. Please kindly, but if there is power - this second decision is actually by mistake here as a second conclusion and should be written as the tenth position. If this has to be filed in writing, I'll hand it over in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented to us by Dr Miha Brejc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, I am very pleased to note that the Committee on Internal Policy has adopted, however you wish, most of the comments proposed by the Social Democratic Party on the Committee. In doing so, I am pleased to note that the drafter of the law has already answered some of the key questions that we have raised in the Committee's debate and has already pointed out possible solutions, so that in this position of the Socialist Group of Members, I would like to draw attention only to some of the substantive issues that I think should be highlighted in particular. We are talking a lot about public administration reform, and I note that most people do not know what this is about at all. We think that once we say reform is complete, but this administration will be small, efficient, cheap, people will be satisfied with it and so on. Of course, it's a big mistake, an illusion. The management will be extensive, expensive and only hope that it will be effective and in this direction I see the efforts of the bill's proponents and, of course, this effort also, normally, we all probably support. Of course, we would like more expression to come up with how to say system opinion or systemic approach. The Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee has said something about this already today very briefly. In fact, Members and Members of Parliament, of course, as well as the Slovenian public, we need a comprehensive picture of this reform. What awaits all of us with regard to this reform? I think it would be very useful for us to have a graphic presentation in our debate, which would clearly indicate what laws we will be considering, adopting, and what individual objectives these laws will achieve in this National Assembly. We don't have this idea today. This idea, if there is still a chapter in this space, of course the bad fact that laws come in any order already, and it is therefore essential that this National Assembly somehow binds the proposers of all these regulations - some of them Mr Lavrinc has already mentioned - who form a whole to be treated in one session. In order to avoid an explanation in this sense, when we do not like something, the proposer tells us: ‘ This is regulated by another law or will be regulated by another law. Of course, it is nice to have all of this on the table and, of course, the laws that connect can then be dealt with in a federal way and can also be coordinated under a certain rule of connectivity. And that would be truly desirable for us to do so. Of course, I also expect that when we discuss these laws, we will be familiar with sub-laws. It is often the case that in the law the applicant writes that this and this will be regulated by a sub-law and then later we see that there are no and no laws and, of course, we do not achieve the objectives of the law. It would be good for the proposer to tell the national assembly, on the occasion of these laws and when we are discussing them, clearly, when these sub-laws will be adopted and what they intend to do with them, so that they can take a step forward. It is all too often that the legislator or the proposer in the law regulates what that moment can regulate, standardize, and what he does not know or is not able to do at that time, but leaves to the act of law and somehow erases itself with a provision that will regulate the act of law; then there is no such act of law and, of course, obstacles to effective action are here. Dr. Virant spoke today about these organizational levels, and it is good that we are once told how the proposer or the government imagines these things. Well, at the same time, I cannot pass over the fact that the applicant is performing with new expressions. Is it really necessary to name some things with new expressions, but when they mean simply changing the inscription on the door, printing and so on? In what way is the Directorate-General, as a name for the rounded area, better than the current administration or the sector, and so on? I am alone in determining very clearly what the structure of the ministry is, and then we will all know, yeah, there is an administration at the top or a sector, but if you insist on the Directorate-General, then the Directorate-General will be, and then it will be divided into lower levels, so let now this, I don't know, sections, sections, references, I don't know what. Only this must be clearly stated to know exactly what a hierarchical structure is, because this has consequences even when it comes to the leaders of these organisational units and so on. Thus, of course, this organisational part of the law needs to be improved, explained, all that we have already requested in the debate on the law on the committee. I would briefly touch on these two bodies that appear here, for example, the expert council of the Minister. I think it is very good that the Minister is aware that there is a lot of knowledge, a lot of expertise, accumulated at different institutes and so on, at universities, and that there are people who are familiar with each other. However, it is necessary to make clear what this expert council is - whether it is an organ, an advisory body that has its own, I don't know, secretary, secretary, in short, some professional support, these members are paid, they're not paid, it's volunteer work, it's lovemaking and I don't know what. I think it's a good thing there isn't a situation where a minister pays the members a meeting, but the other one doesn't. So we are aware of the differences that occur in practice. I also think it would be good for us to identify ourselves in particular around the bodies in the composition. In this respect, the law is flawed not to say that it is bad. By the way, Dr. Virant, Secretary of State, said there were a lot of them. And of course, we know well that some have only a few employees. Police as a corps, but as a law in the compound today, I don't know how many, 8,000, maybe less employees. So these are the organs in the composition that are completely uncomparable in their scope, by their functions and similar. But we're all in the same basket. I think that we should make one important leap in quality here and in the opinion itself, and grant this special status to the organs in the body only to those who truly deserve it. For example, the police, the military, the tax administration, customs, not to mention everyone. It may be useful for the marriage to state the criteria by which a form may acquire this status. However, if we are not able to do so or if you are not able to do so, we may simply list them in the law and, rather, quite as much as we would say, cement the condition, but this is also not bad, given that the organs in the body have a very special status. At least that's how I think it should be. However, if this article, Article 23 of the Law remained the same as it was, of course, the bodies in the composition would lose this specialty, this special status. In fact, they would be compared with other bodies within ministries. It would lose any independence. Each of us knows well, and, of course, we have also heard from the Minister on the Committee when he stressed the importance of professional autonomy. But you know, this professional autonomy without financial and humane autonomy isn't worth much. Those with human resources policies and finances have a strong influence on what will be done in an organ. That is why I think it is right, especially if we have these large bodies in front of us, such as the tax administration, customs, the police, the military, to support this professional autonomy with financial autonomy and human resources autonomy. This would really prevent or at least mitigate the impact of policy on these highly sensitive areas. As it is now written, the matter is going in a completely different direction. Not only is it contrary to what the Secretary of State has previously stressed on this policy-government relationship, it is said that politics is precisely when we take financial and humane autonomy away from them, that, of course, we are opening a wide door to political influence, but it is, of course, that this is fundamentally contrary to all the modern organisational concepts that we know in the world and that work well in the world. So I think there is still something here that, let me put it, is a real socialist paradigm that basically led to the impact on the state administration by budget and, of course, by human resources policy. Thus, there is a tendency to politicise the administration at this point, and I oppose it myself, and I think and hope, of course, that this provision will be amended accordingly. If it does not, this will mean that the impact of policy is increasing. Such a provision, as it is now in law, means that the applicant does not want an independent police, an independent military, an independent taxation of independent customs, but one that will serve politics. Articles 37 to 40 list the ministries and their areas. And here we have commented that this is probably not in line with the proposed amendment to Article 114 of the Constitution. Now, of course, the proponent - I understand that he cannot change or coordinate with something that has not yet been adopted, but it is well known what this is about and I think it is not formally difficult to reconcile these matters here. The relationship between the ministries and the administrative units of which today's talk was more coherently presented, but more clearly presented only for this booth here by Dr. Virant, not in law. These relationships in marriage are still the same as they were. The law summarizes the existing state - more or less. That's not what we heard here today. I have understood these introductory expositions as a prediction of amendments to these provisions, and I hope that this will happen. For, as we see, administrative units are only an intermediate phase between the former municipalities, which brought together both functions, i.e. the function of the state and the function of the local community, and what now arises. This is said to be the region and, of course, local self-government: the old municipality, the administrative district. This is about this relationship now. Therefore, I think it is good that the proposaler is already thinking about how he would unify these many different organisational forms. It is quite amazing, when we were doing one research a while ago, that a Phare project was for inspection services, and we have found an extraordinary variety of organizational forms of our inspection services. Then we move on, and then we see that, say, defence internal affairs are not included in administrative units. What's the reason for that? In short, when we undertake an organisational analysis of the Slovenian state administration, we see only one variety of organizational forms, which unfortunately is not justified by their effectiveness. If I understand correctly, it has been announced here today that the applicant will seek to unify organisational forms at different levels. If this is done, of course this will be a big step forward. A big step forward, people will finally know what the congregation is, what is the administrative unit or region when it comes to it. What tasks a person can perform or what rights he may exercise. As regards the Commissioner's co-ordination, it has also been shown that there is no specific function in practice. I would therefore suggest that, if we have all somehow figured this out, not once, we simply abolish it, because there is no point in applying something that practice has already rejected long ago. But I am totally opposed to a new body called the Coordination Council. [[This is in Article 55.]] . In fact, both one body and another, the Chief's Council and the Coordination Council, this reminds me of the times of self-governing socialism, which should have nothing to do with today's time, but above all they certainly have nothing to do with modern administration. I do not think we need any such post-government authorities; if we want to have a clear picture, then everyone in the state administration system should have a clear role. And if so, then it is also known who performs the coordination function. The coordination function is one of the functions of leadership - the one who leads, the one who coordinates, and does not need any coordination councils, councils of chiefs, and I do not know what else. So I would really suggest that this somehow be eliminated, that we release these provisions, because I think that the wicked serve. Also, look, what if one of these members of the coordination councils simply doesn't want to take part in these councils, and I don't know why, for my own sake, what can we do to him? What happens if someone ignores these councils? Yes, nothing, it has no special effects here; but if it is just some consultations and some coordination, it is possible to do so anyway. Look, today we have general inspectors at the top of all these inspection services, but these people are meeting at a coordination that is not formally recorded anywhere, because there is a need for them to coordinate on certain things. I think that the law, and this is lacking in principles, must encourage this particular form of cooperation that is not now. In many cases in the Slovenian State Administration - and I study it for about 25 years - are the leading people who fence their department, their organizational unit with high fences and let no one see what's going on in there, don't let these people move around the administration or anything like that. So we should relax these organizational forms in order to be more flexible, to be more flexible in terms of modern organisational concepts, otherwise it will be more about some cosmetic adjustments. With regard to Article 60, I would like to stress in particular that the word 'or' used there - makes the word 'or' very loose. [[...]] It is said that coordination is not compulsory, it is necessary to draw up regulations. Now, if such a provision is already in law - although I think it does not belong there - then we should also clearly write what the role of the government is in this. Well, certainly the one who leads is the one who coordinates, as I said before. And the government that runs this case has a very clear relationship with the ministries. If anyone, the government has to provide these things. I don't know. I think it's possible to let go. [[...]] In short, I think that this law and, of course, other laws that are in preparation have taken one step forward, so that in the Social Democratic Party we consider the proposed text, taking into account the comments we have made and adopted by the Committee, and, of course, what the Secretary of State has said today is that all of this together is an appropriate basis for further proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Then go ahead, Mr. Rokavec and Mrs. Majda Zupan. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! Secretary of State! Allow me to present below the position of the LDS Club. In the LDS Club, we welcome the proposer's decision to bring together the matter currently governed by two laws, the law on administration and the law on the organisation and work of the Ministry. We believe that this will make the area of state regulation much more transparent. We also support the resolution of the draft law on the new regulation of the political governance of ministries, which foresees that there will be a maximum of one State Secretary in the individual ministry alongside the minister, who will be clearly profiled as a political official and will no longer perform primarily the professional tasks he has so far. In this way, we believe that the administrative management in the person of the Secretaries-General and the Director-General, who will, of course, be appointed in accordance with the Law on Public Servants, will ensure the necessary continuity of work in the course of government changes. In the LDS Group, we also support the proposaler's intention to clearly regulate the relationship between the authorities made up of the minister and consequently reduce the number of such bodies. However, we note that the applicant has overly defined the criteria to be met by the Authority in order to obtain the status of the body in the composition. That is why we propose that the proposer re-examine the sentence of Article 23 of the bill by setting out more clearly the criteria for when the professional autonomy of the body in the composition also requires its financial and human resources autonomy. This is particularly important because, from now on, the authorities in the composition will no longer be legal matter, but will be determined by the government by a regulation on a proposal from the Ministry of Field Affairs. With regard to administrative units remaining part of the direct administration in the performance of administrative tasks, we support the proposaler's decision to wait for a more extensive reorganisation to decide on the design of the landscapes. However, we believe that the proposal for a second reading bill should clarify the relationship between administrative units and ministries. We also propose that the proposer re-examine the relevance of the councils of the chiefs of administrative units, as well as the coordination councils, in view of the solutions offered by the bill. We also propose that the drafter of the law raise the issue of the appointment and discharge of chiefs of administrative units in the Public Servants Act, as well as other public servants, not specifically in this law. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the proposal for a state administration law is a suitable basis for preparing a second reading text and we will support the bill. We will also support the proposals drawn up by the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister and Secretary of State. In the SLS+SKD Group, we expect the Slovenian People's Party to provide a new law on state administration, in particular allowing greater flexibility, efficiency, rationality and expertise in the work of the state administration. We believe that the concept of co-adoption of the adoption of three important laws relating to this law should be enforced when considering this law. This is the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Inspection Services and the Law on Public Agencies. But we have a thought. In fact, whenever it comes to reforms and reorganisations in our country, it turns out that the aim of such reforms, particularly in the field of public administration, is an even larger product for employees in the state administration. Therefore, according to our assessment, it is a shame that no comprehensive analysis of the state of the state administration has been submitted to this bill. Above all, this analysis could show which bodies within the framework of the state administration are also covering work areas across a wide range of levels. In fact, we would have a clearer answer to the question of what the actual situation in the state administration is right now. The financial implications of reading in the Rapporteur also suggest that this law will actually bring additional financial burdens on the state budget. In this context, we expect this comprehensive analysis to be prepared for the second reading, which will also answer the question of the actual need for new employment or possible redeployments within existing staff. Nor can we agree with the matter in the law, which in some ways is more subordinate to daily policy. On this issue, we advocate a differentiated approach. In fact, it is necessary to determine which bodies in the composition are of essential importance - this has already been said here today, the police, the military, the inspection and so on - are those bodies that in some ways need greater autonomy, independence also as budgetary users, and which are those bodies in the composition that do not represent such an important weight in the functioning of the state administration. It is also necessary to harmonise the possibility defined by the law, saying that the government would change the working areas of ministries through the regulation - we know that this is not possible at the moment because this matter is governed by the law on the working areas of ministries, and also by the Constitution. We believe that the issue of the adoption of the Law on State Administration also needs to be clearly defined as to what powers can be entrusted to local communities are those that are transferred or also clearly defined by the supervision of ministries in which the supervision of ministries, which is also consistent with local self-government, is a matter of fact. We particularly welcome the territorial organisation of administrative units by improving the management and functioning of the administrative unit as one of those basic, basic units of functioning with citizens. Nevertheless, although it has already been explained today that no changes are expected at this stage in the functioning of administrative units, Article 42 allows the government to change the areas of administrative units as well. In the Group of Members, we think that this would certainly be pointless at the moment, because the current framework of administrative units is those which in some way have been accepted by the citizens in particular as their own. In doing so, we are questioning the co-consultation of the Chief of Administration. In fact, the administrative unit is one of those key services for citizens. Here, however, we stress that it would make sense for the Council to have a greater role in spite of all that the Council may have, than it now has, to have a greater link with local communities, and thus to be able to resolve the problems and issues on the ground more quickly. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law at first reading, together with the views of the parental committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, House of Respect! The proposal for a law on state administration is the last in a package of four laws on public administration reform. Among Members of the ruling coalition, however, the smart decision was to not take it quickly, but in normal procedure and in parallel with the other three laws. An effective and rational state administration is one of the most important foundations for the functioning of the country. However, we fear that the bill is somewhat weak in organisational terms, because we believe that the organisational structure of the state administration is lacking, which we have been promised to get to the table. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, to some of the dilemmas and questions that arise on the ground. The bodies of the ministries as legal categories have been abolished. Their work area is dealt with in an extremely general manner in the draft law, as this area and powers will be determined by the Government. At that point, the idea skips to the proposed amendment to the Constitution, namely paragraphs 112 and 114. The change of ministers would not be appointed and resolved by the National Assembly, but by the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, or by the establishment of the composition of the Government and the number of ministries and the organisation of ministries, should be exempted from the rule of law and leave to government regulation. The law would continue to regulate the powers of the government and the work areas and powers of the ministries. Article 114 of the proposal for amendments to the Constitution. Does this mean a higher concentration of power on the government? On the very proposal of the law, we face the issue of the establishment of the provinces, which has not yet been set up. New designations, such as Directorate-General, Director-General, Secretary-General and the like, are being introduced. The new law has an ambition to separate politically from the administrative management function. The Director-General and the Secretary-General shall be the civil servants to whom the Law on Public Servants shall apply. However, the Secretary of State, who may be a maximum of one in each ministry, shall have the status of an official. It shall be appointed and dissolved by the Government on a proposal from the competent minister. We are wondering whether this change will actually change the content, or whether it will only change the titles, tables, inscriptions and the like. We believe that the title of each function should also present the tasks as clearly as possible, which is not irrelevant to the transparency of the state authority. Under the terms of the Secretary of State, it would be expected that only - it represents the Ministry of State Interest, but it is not true. He will represent the political interests of the Minister and his parties. This is a major difference mainly for the Ministry’s leading professional staff or for their autonomy at work. The establishment of professional councils gives rise to the laws of consultative bodies in ministries, which in a somewhat disguised way increase the impact of ministers on professional staff in the purely professional field. Like in the case of inspectors. Their establishment is set outside the legislator's field of work, which we believe is not good. It is justified to fear that centralisation is also being introduced in this segment. Inspectorates forced the whip to respect the law and it is incomprehensible that there is a barrier between them and the legislator that makes it difficult to flow information. Professional autonomy is not possible without financial resources. The proposed solution is particularly controversial in certain areas. In particular, I would mention inspectorates, and fairies make professional work impossible. As we have already warned in the proposal for an inspection law, the inspection procedure often ends with enforcement by other persons, for which the financial means to cover the costs are important. It has already been shown in practice that victims of financial distress are always the first to implement inspection decisions. It would be for these reasons to consider whether it would not be good to inspect independent financial consumers within the ministries, which would also give the legislator a direct opportunity to decide on their work. This would also end the unacceptable practice of ministers or governments deciding through financial means whether or not the laws will be respected or respected. The powers of ministers to the directors of the bodies in the composition are overly defined, as this endangers the professional autonomy of the directors. The regulation in the proposal as regards the fact that only the Chief of Administration is responsible for administrative decision-making is difficult to understand. Does the applicant consider that it is not possible to find people in administrative units representing administrative areas with the powers of administrative authorities? Can it only be such a solution that the chiefs of administrative units authorise employees for administrative decision-making? The office of Head of the Administrative Unit is preferred to the local communities, but it has greater powers on staff matters in the administrative unit, as it can appoint heads of departments without the Minister's consent. In order to cooperate between the administrative unit and local communities, it is proposed to establish a special council of the Chief of Administration, which means that the applicant has the necessary institutionalisation of cooperation, which also shows the question of the independence of the State or municipal body. The establishment of the Coordination Council, in our view, introduces an unnecessary body for cooperation between the administrative unit and the regional authorities. We believe that this is an attempt to justify the duality of the state administration and further justify the function of the Chief of Administration. The subordination of local authorities to public authorities is rapidly and secretly introduced. From the formulation of the branch, there is some kind of patronizing attitude towards local authorities, which cannot promote administrative expertise for local communities. The local authorities must certainly be framed by law, but they may be independent within their powers. Competence must be demarcated in such a way that the two authorities act separately, and can only be linked by common service to people who act either as citizens or as nationals and by a court that resolves their mutual disputes. The adoption of sub-legislative acts would also need to be subject to the legislator's consent, because otherwise it is cut off from information on the implementation of laws, as is now the case, for which one of the important reasons is precisely the imprudent number of legal and sub-legislative acts. The provisions on the dispute of jurisdiction should be reconsidered. Such an arrangement, as it is now, is merely a "rolling" of the law by the ministries and thereby reducing the legal security of citizens. Members of the New Slovenia Group expect the proposer to review some of the solutions, also drawing attention to the views of the parent committee, and to take note of the comments made in the following discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Anton Delak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! The DeSUS Group will support the bill. You could even say the marriage came too late on the agenda. The principles set out are appropriate for our Group of Members and for our Members. However, there is a great dilemma before us, if I may put it this way, whether they are part of this law, the provisions of Articles 27 to 40, which refer to government or ministries. In this way we will actually concrete the number of ministries in our government. The question is whether this is appropriate. There may be a need for a larger number of ministries, which of course we do not want, and perhaps the need to join ministries; this is how we will decide. And since this is in fact in some way a significant dilemma, I am once again asking the representatives of the government if I can explain whether it is necessary for them to determine the ministries and their fields of work in the law we are considering. As I said before, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The Law on State Administration is one of the most important laws laying the foundations of state administration and is complementary to the Law on Public Servants, which has already passed the first hearing. However, an effective and effective reform requires that the whole area, including the relationship between the entities being systematised by the reform and a concrete analysis of the current regime, be seen. Therefore, we are pleased that the government has rushed the bill, has foreseen even a rapid procedure, which, in our view, in particular, was to stress that the area needs to be addressed as quickly as possible. The work of the Internal Policy Committee has been good and constructive in the consideration of the law, and there is also no need to ignore the comments of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. The fact is that some of the provisions at the moment are still quite vague, in particular the provisions of the chapter which refers to the establishment of bodies in the composition of the ministries and the provisions on the territorial organisation of the administration. This chapter is relatively poorly defined and, in our view, some things, particularly as regards the chiefs of administrative units, are also subject to another law. The law appears too often as an expression of desire, not as an act to determine the transparent organisation of the state administration, taking into account the fundamental principles of the functioning of the administration already laid down in the Constitution. The positions supported by the Committee will in particular contribute to quality law and at the same time to administrative reform, of course in relation to other legislation in this area, which I hope will be addressed in a comprehensive manner. The SMS considers that, in principle, the proposal is a suitable basis for further consideration, in particular with the Committee's views, and will also support it, particularly in the hope of being as good and user-friendly and understandable as possible as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written debates and therefore the debate of each debater is now limited to five minutes. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would have a few questions about this law, which, according to my assessment, is of a rather systemic nature and governs the state administration at the summit and will leave the regulation of individual segments of the state administration to more detailed legislation. First of all, I would like to know whether this law follows the principle of aid and the appropriate behaviour of civil servants towards the parties. According to my assessment, that part of the state administration, which is directly linked and daily working with the parties, is a very important part of the state administration and the part through which the state administration is painted in the light of the public, and on the basis of which we users of the state administration somehow get the impression of the functioning and the appropriate organisation of this public administration. Therefore, I also ask whether this principle of aid and some right, professional and, of course, well-intentioned behaviour of representatives of the state administration is followed by this principle. I am particularly interested in this aspect of the anti-biocratic programme. If a party, a true uneducated party reaches a public official, of course it may, in accordance with the law, send it to a number of other doors, to a number of other addresses, and such a person or user of some urgent services of the state administration is left to this bureaucratic mill and this also causes a negative later action to the Institute of Public Administration as such. I therefore believe that this principle should be followed here, so that the state administration in this direct contact does everything in terms of service and assistance to the right of the ignorant party. In particular, it is important that the civil servant is there at the official time and is also available to people at the official time. I am aware that a code of conduct has been adopted in government or a code of conduct that speaks about it. I would like to know whether this code, or this willingness of government officials, to one appropriate relationship with the parties has any formal basis or whether it constitutes a violation of this Code or of this principle of assistance and the appropriate behaviour of the public administration towards the parties also has any disciplinary or other consequences for those officials. The second question would have to do with whether it is in the State Administration Act or in this law to feel the idea of transferring judicial powers to administrative jurisdiction. Above all, I am referring here to sectoral matters, in particular inspections. I myself have worked for five years as an inspector for work, and I know that many of the disputes that resulted in the end before the Labour and Social Court and still waiting for their epilogue today could be resolved by an inspector with appropriate jurisdiction on the basis of a settlement, on the basis of some of the compromises reached, substantially earlier. However, he did not have these powers and does not have them today. I wonder whether the new law is also following this idea that some trivial disputes that end in court today and wait for their epilogue and wait for some time to come, especially when it comes to clear things, could be resolved in an administrative manner. However, the third question would focus on the independence or independence of the work of various inspection services and, of course, of other officials in relation to the hierarchy. I know that we had a reform of the state administration a long time ago, where a lot of the presence that the local environment had had had a significant impact on was transferred to the country. I think it's a big step forward. I would like to know whether the impact of the local environment and local policy on the work of the state administration, inspections and, of course, other officials is coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Do any other Members or Members want a word? Then I would finally give the Minister or the Secretary of State an opportunity to respond to your dilemmas. Since there is no wish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I would like to thank those discussions that have supported the Government's efforts in the area of public administration reform and, in particular, its support or design. I would like to stress in particular that we have adopted the idea of co-adoption of the adoption of a package of all four laws justifying reform and that we will then act on procedural approaches. In particular, I would like to say that we consider our obligation to prepare a comprehensive presentation of legal solutions in this area, with all the consequences as regards organisational structures, organ structures, not least the impact on the number of employees, what some discussers have specifically warned about, the financial consequences and so on. In particular, I think it is important that such a presentation be not only a presentation of the normative and systemic part of the reform of the public administration, but also of the other four pillars that support each other in this comprehensive project. I am thinking about, even in the debate, the anti-biocratic programme, the area of training and education of officials running in support of all these processes, I am referring to a specific quality programme in the state administration and the information programme. In short, there are five programmes, sub-projects that all support the reform objectives and the normative system framework is just one of them, or just a framework for content that is being filled in this way. That way, we would consider it our duty to present things in a comprehensive manner, including with analyses that encouraged the preparation of a legal solution. These analyses certainly do exist. For years and years, there have been professional circles of solutions that are now being channeled into normative frameworks. Of course, it's a matter of agreement on what occasion and how. We would be pleased if the National Assembly devoted a special agenda to this issue. We will certainly prepare this in the second reading of the Law on Public Servants, which will be ready shortly. So much for general work. With regard to specific comments, please allow me some comments or opinions on specific proposals. One of the concerns was the terminology issues, the exchange of expressions, I think Dr. Brace talked about it. In this regard, I would like to say that changing the terms is by no means the intention of itself, but to try to establish some terminology, some order, some consistency in the use of terms in this area. I think we've done it to some extent. However, I agree with the fact that there is still a lot to be studied here. Above all, I am referring to the use of the term agency, public agency and so on. I agree to reconsider whether the Director-General or perhaps a better director of the Directorate makes sense. However, it certainly follows, trying to follow, I do not say that we have fully succeeded, some organisational arrangements and the terminology of this arrangement. However, we will certainly take note of the warning in further work. As far as the Council of Experts is concerned. Nothing more than that, we thought it was a consultative body that was shaping professional solutions, to the Minister, but - it must be decided and it also assumes responsibility. In short, it is not that this body in any way substitutes the minister's responsibility, that the minister is the one who chooses between professional decisions and thus assumes responsibility. One of the main discussions concerns the bodies in the composition. I would like to stress in particular that the Government, the proposer, did not have in mind or have set the objective of any subordination of the organs in the composition of the daily policy, as has been said, nor of changing the current, now legally established relations between the minister and the body in the composition or between the minister and the chairman of the bodies in the composition. In any event, it was not intended to reduce the extent to which the organs in the composition were legally independent. At all, the aim was not to interfere with their professional autonomy. I would like to say that the point is that the bodies in the composition have to act in accordance with the principles of the profession, their profession, but that the issue of their financial autonomy is a matter not governed by this law, but by the law governing the public finances system in that country. This is a specific law on public finances, which also stipulates that the law currently in force is that the bodies in the composition are independent budgetary users. Perhaps the wording in Article 23 of this Law is somewhat unfortunate; perhaps it would be right that there is no definition in this law on this issue. This is a system of public finances under which this country operates, and this is the domain of this law. However, I would like to say that total financial autonomy, at least in my opinion, is not and must not have a state authority, and that the financial autonomy of the bodies in the body is limited, irrespective of the fact that, as independent budgetary users, their leaders, they have all the competence to conclude contracts that they are authorising officers to challenge claims. This is explicitly stated in the Financial Business Act. With our proposal for today's law, we have absolutely nothing to do with this; we are not going to do that. I simply do not see complete financial autonomy in the system of government because it would then limit to self-service, to taking what anyone wants or needs. We all need to be subject to some of the restrictions imposed by the taxpayer's money, and we all need to be subject to some kind of control. I think that the same position should also apply to the bodies in the composition. Of course, it is possible for the bodies in the composition to take another step forward in order to exclude bodies as independent budgetary users from the budget of ministries. At this point in time, after the current legislation, the authorities are within the budget of the ministries. This is also how we understand the Minister's responsibility for the situation in the field of organ activity in the composition. If this were to be excluded in a separate budget line, this would, of course, also mean burdening the Minister of Responsibility in this area. This is a rather profound systemic issue that we have not dealt with or gone in this direction, but we have considered that relations should remain the way they are. This means the status of the independent budgetary user and, of course, the supervision and responsibility of the competent minister. We are of the opinion that this is a matter which is part of the aforementioned Financial Business Act and not in this Act. So much for this, because it is quite, very much under discussion and we may also have a slightly different view of this. I would also say that, at the principle level, the idea of this law is that the government will still gain a little more with regard to the regulation of its internal organisation. It is not about allowing the government, by law, to subjugate its own organisation in any way politically; it is simply about a more stressed management position, which means that it is given an organisational function or that it is allowed to determine an internal organisation by its own decisions. We believe that such a decision is in line with the constitutional norm, which provides that the law nevertheless governs the organisation and number of ministries and their areas. This is also the answer to a question raised by a respected colleague from DeSUS. We are of the opinion that the law needs to regulate this and that it imposes this constitution on us, but only to every detail, with a comprehensive description of the individual activities, but it is sufficient to define the area fundamentally and of course the Ministry itself. This is the domain of this law, this is the jurisdiction of this law. As far as the organs are concerned, that's what I'd say. We have one attempt at criteria for where, in what areas, bodies in the composition should be organised, we have already incorporated into the law. However, we will certainly take very seriously the suggestions of the Committee on Internal Policy and also today's debates again and explore further what criteria can be put even more specifically here, or the criteria for the formation of bodies in the composition. Of course, we come from what has been said in the debate, not only today, but many times before, that we have organs in the composition that differ greatly by number, even by meaning, by number of employees, and from 3 to 8 thousand, as has already been said. More than the criteria for where bodies in the composition should be set up, even if this should be the case, it would make sense to supplement the provision of Article 23 of the last paragraph, which now provides that all the professional functions of the bodies in the composition are organised within the ministries. I believe that this is too difficult and that it is only necessary to take into account these great differences in the size of one and the other, and that the specifics of all on the basis of rationality, as a basic guide, should be taken into account, all on the basis of the elimination of duplication and also of the irrational recruitment or accumulation of professional services. This is happening in the state administration in this part, the state administration is irrational in many places and our contribution to this is to aim in the law to eliminate such accumulation of duplication and, of course, not in one linear universal way, for all the same, but where it is rational and meaningful. With regard to the various coordination councils mentioned above, it is somewhat surprising that there has been so much opposition or debate. You probably have that kind of information and experience. In particular, we have taken into account the experience and initiatives of the chiefs of administrative units or those working in the field, where they consider it rather uniform to require some form of coordination between them, some form of cooperation between them. Not an institution within the meaning of some new powers, but in particular the coordination of the interests of the activity, of course in the interests of citizens and citizens who use the services of all those in the field. Of course, the idea of the Co-ordination Council will become centuries-old and unnecessary at the time when we introduce the provinces, but we are still a little far away from this, so we consider it reasonable to establish some forms of cooperation, coordination in this period until the landscapes are established. With regard to the mandate of the chiefs of administrative units, which has also been very much discussed, let me just reiterate that we think that this should be included in the law on public servants, where it is necessary to reconsider the time frame within which this will be carried out. With regard to the identification of areas of administrative units, which was also a question, let me just say that things are not changing here, given the state of law in force. Even under the current legislation, the areas are determined by a government regulation. Let me say that we have no proposals or initiatives from anywhere for any change in areas at this time or for the establishment of new administrative units or anything like that. It is to complement, but one question that we are examining openly, but that this provision should be followed by some reorganisation of administrative units, is simply not true or is not envisaged. As regards the situation between the Minister and the Chief of Staff, I have already explained something. Let me just say that, in fact, you're the colleague of Zupanov's saying it's too loosely defined here. Maybe so. In fact, in the current legislation, these relations are set out in more detail, but more tighter than that, more in terms of the Minister's subjection to the Prime Minister. We have tried precisely because of sectoral legislation in many areas, which regulates the specificity of these relations in its own way - in the field of, say, the Ministry of Interior and the police, it is necessary to take into account the law on police and the law on criminal procedure - to formulate things a little more in principle. Of course, it is still at the level that the Minister gives guidance to the chairman and supervises his work. All other details have fallen out in accordance with the arrangements in force. However, we will re-examine things from the point of view of the meaning of a more detailed definition. A few more comments on the last two questions. The messenger is not here now, so I'll be shorter. However, the law rules at the principal level of the State Administration’s relationship to the parties. It seeks to lay down the principles of a legal basis for relations between the State and citizens. The fact that there is certainly a contribution in this direction, however, must be understood in conjunction with the Law on Public Servants, which gives specific obligations and duties in this regard, as well as the Code referred to by the Member, the conduct of public servants, which, in any case as a breach of professional behaviour rules, can also create legal consequences. Well, and also on the last question, regarding the situation and competence of the inspectors. Here I would just say that this is not a matter governed by this law, but by the law on inspection services, and that there are some simplifications or some new solutions that go in this direction, which the Member ordered. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think that there was also an extensive debate on the working body in the plenary. I think that I can conclude the general debate and we can move on to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. So I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Law on State Administration, the first consideration, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the positions prepared by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body on page 6. As explained by the president of the home working body, there are two additional conclusions on page 7 of the proposal. An additional decision under order number 2 shall be transmitted by the content itself between the positions under order number 10, leaving an additional decision under order number 1, which shall be dealt with at a later date. This means that I am putting to the debate first, and then to decide the position of the parent working body, with the correction I presented, from 1 to 10. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for positions. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. With regard to this law, the mother's working body has also developed a proposal for an additional decision, which is found on page 7 of the report of the home working body, namely that the applicant of the law, taking into account the organisational laws in the field of public administration, should submit to the National Assembly, until the second reading of this Act, the envisaged structure of the state authorities and public institutions and their powers and tasks. They're all listed in brackets. I think that quite a few wishes have been expressed today, so I am proposing an additional decision to discuss. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I think it's already time that we don't start discussing the 7th item of the agenda now, but in the afternoon work at 2.30 p.m. We are therefore continuing this afternoon's work on item 7 of the agenda, and then we will skip the 8th and 9th, because they are not ready, and continue to deal with item 10 of the agenda. Thank you very much to the Minister, the Secretary of State, the representatives of the Secretariat. Thank you, too, for your attention and a good run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we continue this afternoon's meeting. Additional reasons for the continuation of the 9th meeting of 24.10.2001 are the following Members and Members: Victory of Jelinčič for the whole day, Branko Kelemina for the afternoon part, Alojz Peterle for the afternoon part, Maja Širc for the start of the afternoon part of the meeting. I ask that we determine the presence before proceeding. Presence, 50 Members and Members. This is what we call a conclusion, and we can proceed with the work. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on public agencies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. This time, of course, I will be considerably shorter than in the State Administration Act. The Law on Public Agencies is a law that is submitted for second reading and I will briefly explain only the changes that it has experienced after the first reading, i.e. between the first and second readings. A large majority of the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters presented in the first reading have been taken into account. Secondly, comments concerning the autonomy of public agencies have been taken into account, so that the law now allows for the appointment of a certain number of public service users to the public agency bodies, more specifically to the world of the public agency, which is the highest authority, following the "botton up" system. This means that this part of the world is directly chosen from users as an option. In some other points, self-reliance was increased, for example, in that the public agency itself can set up an internal organisation without requiring the consent of the founder, the government's consent. The comments concerning the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Public Agency were also taken into account by referring fully to the future law of public servants and, during the transitional period, to the applicable legislation governing public employment competitions in the State administration. The proposer also submitted a series of amendments whose substance could collide in four, five indents. Firstly, it is laid down that the same principles applicable to the whole state administration, i.e. the principles of operation, the rules of business with the parties, the rules concerning official hours and business in the future, so that the same rules apply to public agencies as to public administration. The criteria for setting up a public agency are laid down. Some amendments go in this direction so that public agencies are no longer divided into three types, but that they are one type of legal person, a public agency and the law determines for what purposes they can be established. There are still some minor changes in the amendments. However, I would like to say one more thing to clarify what the structure of the state administration should be, taking into account the law on public agencies or the law on public agencies. We already have some agencies on the one hand today that act as bodies within the ministries. On the other hand, we already have several agencies operating as independent legal entities, I would say, on a similar basis as provided for in this Law on Public Agencies - Telecommunications, Securities Market, Insurance Control, Energy. This law will only intervene in the functioning of existing ones, i.e. those established by law, in those points which are not regulated in the field laws. Therefore, these agencies will have to align their activities with the new law only in those points which are not specifically addressed in their field laws. What does that mean to go on? This law provides the basis for the establishment of new public agencies, so it does not regulate existing ones, except as much as I have just said. It also does not tange those agencies that act as bodies in the composition. Here, of course, we have been asked the question or whether those agencies acting as bodies in the composition should be renamed just to separate them from public agencies - here we are at that dilemma or we are renaming something and we are costing only for the sake of terminological separation. For once, it is our view that it does not make sense, let us say that the Agency, I give the case, for regional development or for agricultural markets, which act as bodies within ministries and is also intended to continue to act in such a way as to rename them just so that we know that they are not public agencies under the law on public agencies. Of course, we will still have agencies as components of ministries, as bodies in the composition of ministries. This law, however, is the basis for possible new agencies that would come from existing ones, notably from the authorities in the existing ministries to very selective and very careful ones. Although we have proposed a law on public agencies, I can clearly say that the approach to setting up agencies will be very selective and very cautious. That is to say, we must prevent the emergence of a public administration agency, as has been the case in some other foreign administrative systems, with us, thank God, so far not. We have here, for example, with the UK or the Netherlands or some other country, quite a few advantages because there they find that so many areas have been released from the state administration, i.e. under the supervision of ministries, that they are now preparing reverse processes. Well, one of the specific issues on which the proposer would specifically like the guidance of the National Assembly is whether the government should go to the National Assembly for each public agency. So, should any public agency require a specific legal basis. In this case, of course, this law represents only, i.e. a status law that allows; when the government decides to set up an agency in an area, its powers are determined by the law. So very briefly, the establishment of the agency and its tasks are these, it comes to the National Assembly, it gets confirmation of the amendment of the law. But all the other issues are already settled in this law, and they do not need to be repeated in every field law. This was also in 1998 when the decision to go to this law was taken, one of the main reasons why it is not strictly necessary in every law where the agency is established to answer all the status questions: responsibility for obligations, bodies, body composition, representation and all other status questions. I hope I made myself clear. If, of course, any further clarification is needed, I will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the committee, as I said at the previous point, we felt it would be useful if all the laws in this area, so to speak, were dealt with at the same time in the field of administration. This would allow Members to have the whole picture in front of them. This was one of the reasons for the proposal for a decision then adopted by the Committee. However, the second reason was that the applicant did not actually respect the business arrangements and instead, instead of the second treatment, instead of the form envisaged, these amendments simply changed the text for a second reading to the extent that the secretariat assessed that it had exceeded the limit. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly to reopen the first reading on the proposal for a law, to adopt a decision that the law is the appropriate basis for the second reading and to prepare the bill in accordance with the views for the second reading. I will not explain the very contents of these views because they are here on pages 3 and 4. However, they are summarized after what the committee agreed on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The Committee proposes that we reopen the first hearing. I am opening a debate on this proposal. It's actually procedural, but it's also substantive. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this committee proposal? Please, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to say that we Members of New Slovenia have been opposed from the outset to the examination and adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. We are pleased that it has been decided by the Committee that the proposal for a law should be returned to the first reading in order to deal with it in parallel with the other three laws contained in the Public Administration Reform Act and that this is in the normal procedure. For the first time, we have warned that the law is too far-fetched and that all provisions relating to agencies already in other laws must be examined irrespective of the areas in which they perform their functions. Many things have already been said by the Secretary of State that this has been resolved or corrected and completed. And also, this is taken in the positions of the parental committee. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia support these views and expect us to find appropriate solutions through the debate, both at the professional and political level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the second treatment is now under way, it is likely that the law was in regular proceedings. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am afraid, however, that before the vote, it appears to ask our colleagues and colleagues who may be nearby to join us in order to vote on the procedural proposal of the Internal Policy Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now proceed to the vote on the return of the proposal for a law on public agencies to the first reading. Let's vote, please! I'm afraid there's not enough of us. Once again, colleagues and colleagues who are near to join us. We're re-voting. Let's vote, please. I'm guessing we're not done here. We're good enough in the hall. I'm taking ten minutes off. So we continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u69	Could you please make that vote? So this is the third time we have voted on the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 56 members and Members voted, none against [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. So we are moving on to the first consideration of the law. Does the representative of the government want a word on this? Please, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you. Yes, in three sentences, given that the procedural matter is a bit unusual. Whether the second reading proposal is covered by the positions in the first reading or not could be disputed. In our opinion, it is. But on the other hand, of course, it is entirely appropriate to re-adopt the first reading proposal, because then all four laws from the package are adopted in the first reading and can be brought back to the National Assembly for a second reading. That's exactly how it would be. I would only express the applicant's concern or wish that the National Assembly authorize the applicant to include in the second reading law what is now being submitted in the amendment form. It is said that it is not necessary to come back with amendments, but that the basic text, so if adopted today in the first reading, should be supplemented for the second reading - so not to re- table amendments, but to simply incorporate it into the text. This will, of course, be much easier for the law to be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. Does the representative, the rapporteur for the Internal Policy Committee want the floor? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] There are no written submissions to the debate. The debate of the other Members will be limited to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Yeah, then of course I can finish this part. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we can conclude this general debate and move on to a debate on the proposed conclusions or conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law on public agencies, first of all, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Does anyone want to discuss this decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We can vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 50 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of this body, the Committee on Internal Policy. These attitudes are quite something. That's what we got. He wants a word? Yes, please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u72	More concerned that, in the sense that I will not be late, I myself, as the proposal for an additional decision has been made by the representative of the applicant. So it is that the National Assembly authorizes the proposer to incorporate these solutions into the very text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u73	I am afraid that the general debate has been concluded and therefore such additional positions cannot be subsequently put into effect under the Rules of Procedure. It is logical, however, that the proposer will take into account what we have in our views - let us at least hope so. Of course, what's at stake. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u74	We didn't get along so well. I wasn't going to add a position, but I was going to propose an additional decision. That's what I was going to do, if possible, of course, business, and you're going to help me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u75	I'm sorry. I'm interested in this because of the very clear business arrangements. We have adopted a decision concerning the first reading of the law, so that it is a suitable basis for the second reading. It was the only decision I had here that I could put to the vote. However, in the Committee's report of 26.9 there are views. These positions are ten. Now, at the time of the general debate, these 10 positions could be extended to the orderly number forward, 11, 12, 13 I do not know how much; but this was not done. Now, I would like to ask if you can explain whether this is a decision that interferes with the content itself, or whether it is a decision that is procedural in nature. Now, Mr Lavrinc, from your physical gesture, I have somehow sensed that we can move forward. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u76	The Secretary of State has offered us one solution that I think would be of great quality. This is to get - for us it is much easier, for Members, to read the text, in an integral way, than to have a text, one that is now here, and then, of course, to each article to seek amendments. Therefore, my proposal was, if, of course, the power is still business, that, as we already have in some other laws - after all: we have added to the State Administration Act, so we have concluded that the law is a suitable basis for second reading, we have adopted positions and we have adopted an additional decision. And instructed the government to prepare us for the scheme of these state institutions. This is what I imagined if, of course, it is commercially possible, but I will not insist on adopting an additional decision which, of course, would be formulated with the assistance of the State Secretary, the representative of the Secretariat. But if that's not possible, I won't insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u77	So we don't get too complicated with these things. The fact is that we should do this in the context of the general debate, so I ask those present whether we can consider this proposal for a short time to reopen the general debate in view of the fact that this has somehow happened late and, of course, the procedural matter is very controversial. [[...]] Or we go ahead as planned. So does the applicant also want us to go back to the general debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u78	I'd like to ask. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you. I understand, you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u80	All of us. The government, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u81	Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u82	Look, we have one of the main rules of procedure. I think it's a business impermissibility. I do not want to be put to some test here, whether we respect the rules of procedure or not, and whether we respect it or not. I think that this business is unacceptable and therefore I think that such a proposal is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Procedurally, things are so clear that if the opposition was, if the consensus was that it was such a editorial matter, it would be simple. Thus, it is not even worth discussing, since business matters are clear. So we are discussing the positions we have on pages 3 and 4 of the Committee's report. Who wants to talk about these views? [[Nobody.]] Because no one wants to discuss please, Mr Barovich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u84	I'm sorry. Just before you opened the debate, I raised my hand. I know you couldn't see me. However, I would suggest, I respect Mr Visian's proposal, but I would still suggest, given that the content is probably very important if the proposer, namely Mr Lavrinc, can formulate his proposal as a procedural proposal. Of course, if he wants to and if he can. If not, we continue to follow the rules of procedure normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u85	Mr Barovic, we cannot take your proposal into account because the proposal is not procedural but substantive. What Mr Lavrinc proposes is a substantive matter. And it's not procedural. Because it's such a thing, it's simply too late. He took the train. How can I say that? But the thing is, it's not as complicated as it looks. So, the debate on these issues, the views no longer exist, we can move on to a decision on the Committee's views. Let us vote, please, on the views of the Internal Policy Committee. Of the 51 present, 50 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Committee's views have been adopted and thus conclude this item on the agenda. We're going, as was said on vacation, to 10. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Protection Before Fire. I thank the representative of the government. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I welcome the representative of the government, Dr. Time, and ask him if he wants a word on this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u86	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly at its 7th meeting on 28.6.2001 as a proposal for a law amending and supplementing and imposing on the Government, at second reading, a proposal for a third reading. The text of the law was prepared by the government as it was imposed. We are proposing only an amendment, which has also been supported by the parent working body - the Defence Committee - which is that in a committee to plan the use of state-level fire taxes, there are representatives of professional firefighters with one and not two representatives. Such a proposal has been explained by the fact that voluntary firefighters are significantly more and also that their working conditions are different. This proposal, as well as the full proposal for amendments and additions, addressed the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and examined the legal material and the Government's amendment to the bill in terms of constitutionality and the legal system and legal processing. The secretariat notes that, when preparing the draft law for third reading, the proposer duly included the amendment in the second reading. The secretariat had no comments on this prepared text, so I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the law and also adopt the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u87	I thank the Secretary of State, Dr. Time, for his opening remarks. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u88	Your Honor! At its meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the amendments and additions published in the bulletin, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1 of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act and the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Assembly on the legislation of the said proposal. Representatives of the proposer attended the meetings of the Committee. The introductory word was given by the proposer and presented the law. However, in accordance with Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has examined the legal material and amendments submitted by the Government to the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. In doing so, the secretariat noted that the proposal for a third-reading law had appropriately included the text in the second reading adopted by the amendment. The secretariat had no comments on the text so prepared. Following the debate, the Defence Committee supported the amendment tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1, which reads: In Article 1, in the fifth paragraph, the words "by 2 members of professional firefighters' representatives" are replaced by "1 member of professional firefighters' representatives", which was, of course, also explained. And after the final hearing, the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Defence Council proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, in the context of the third reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, it adopts a legislative proposal, together with an amendment supported by the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Would you like a statement from the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. On behalf of the LDS, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Liberal Democracy Club supports the law as recorded in the third reading. The law, as already highlighted in the first two cases, corrects certain procedures for the consumption of revenues from a fire tax for the purchase and co-financing of the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment. We have also addressed the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in our parliamentary club, and I must say that we have had different views here in many ways. In the end, however, there was some view that the amendment of the government would not be supported, particularly for one reason: the purpose of the composition of the committee, which we practically introduced with our amendment, of the LDS MPs once again into the dictatorship of this law and, in fact, to maintain the "status quo" already established by the previous law, with the solutions from the previous resolutions of the law, we proposed that two members from representatives of professional firefighters and two members from representatives of voluntary firefighters. In doing so, this committee would have four firefighters or representatives of firefighters, in addition to others represented on this Committee. The Government's proposal reduces this composition in such a way that it decreases mainly in that part of the professional firefighters' representatives and in essence reduces the voice of the firefighter organisation in this committee and, of course, also the professions. So it seems to us that this solution was somewhat inconvenient. Probably, if a larger representation of volunteer firefighters were to be desired, it would probably be more appropriate if the number of volunteer firefighters increased by 1, so that the ratio would be 3:2 or something like that. With this in practice, the relationship between the other structures is represented in this committee, and the representatives of the fire organisations are resolved and we think that such a solution is not good. I believe that there will be different voices in between, but in general, in our House of Members, we believe that the composition of this Committee should be as it has already been established in the law and is practically absent in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So protection from fire is one of the important tasks of any organised society. We could also see this in the wake of the mysterious fires at the beginning of last year, when the Slovenian economy’s carrier companies destroyed themselves, the vital parts of these companies burned down, even though they were at the centre of the facilities. That's what they say. They weren't some peripheral objects, but something just burned down in the middle. It must be acknowledged that this fire protection service is relatively well-managed, especially in the eastern and central parts of Slovenia, while in the western part, the coastal work due to historical details is slightly smaller. The latest terrorist attacks in the United States have also shown that the above-mentioned fire protection service is still important that it needs to be refined and organised and equipped so that it is able to respond effectively to all the new challenges that arise every day. And, of course, prepare her for any new needs. In doing so, it is an important part of both prevention and education, such as equipment and, of course, the status of people and organisations in this system is important. Here I am thinking mainly of the status of the humanitarian organisation of firefighting, which it still does not have, and the people who do so expect it. And then the appropriate incentives that follow. The law before us, of course, had a somewhat broader intention, but then it all narrowed down. But what remains and is before us will not save much, but there may be one stone in the mosaic of our concern for life and for our property, and of course our natural properties. The Social Democratic Party supports this decision of the parent working body and also supports the marriage proposal as a whole. However, since certain statements have been made before me within the framework of the Group of Members, and since I am not allowed to polyminate, I will not do so, but then as a debater, as a Member, I will also explain some things further. The SDS, however, supports this proposal. Thank you, Ipea.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Please, Mr. Pohorec, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Someone said we're only discussing firefighters today. In this Chamber, we have already had a lot of discussion on this issue, and today we are correcting in part this Fire Protection Act, which our DeSUS Group agrees with and with these amendments. We would support a number of other things that we would need in the area that we are also dealing with under this law. Our view is that, in other areas, we should in particular do more to develop this part of our civil defence, which we undoubtedly need. But since this is the third debate, there is no more general debate, I will conclude that we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you. This concludes the debate of the representatives of the groups of Members. Of course, a full discussion of the proposal is also envisaged in the third reading. I do not have written statements from Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please. Of course, the debate is now limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm sure I'll be shorter. The adoption of this law with regard to this amendment in Article 1 has led to claims that, by reducing the members of these commissions to one professional firefighter, the power of firefighters would be reduced. That's not true! Because if you look at the composition and, of course, the number of members that firefighters have together, anyway, they don't have a majority, I'm talking directly about firefighters, professionals and volunteers. However, it is only a matter of regulating the relationship between the two groups. It's not about taking power from firefighters, it's about regulating inside between professionals and volunteers. Those who know this aspect of firefighting know that unfortunately there are certain differences, which is understandable after all, between the two spheres of firefighters, which is not positive. However, the situation is that way, and people are that way, and of course there is another way to do it, so there is no need to be dramatic about it. I don't dramatize it myself, but everyone represents their interests, which is the right and normal thing to do. And as I said, given that we have over 100,000 professional firefighters and they have in these commissions -- well, if there are 120, even 120 thousand doesn't change things. Basically, there are a lot of them, and they have two members, while professional firefighters, who have a very different status, as well as two, are supposed to be under 1,000. It's a ratio of 2:1, and now it's 2:2. I don't think it's a disaster. However, this relationship would have been more in fact a numerical state and a relationship within it, so that this was also the intention of the proposer and that is why we have also supported this proposal. I'd say that's not the law that would be good to break a copy between professional and volunteer firefighters. Far from it. There are probably other laws that we have already discussed in this mandate, and it was hotter there. There's actually the point. I don't think it would be good for Members to be on their backs right now, I'm going to say, firefighters and, above all, assets - the means, not the object, but the means, which we are earmarking for this area - to break the spear here too. I think this proposal is completely acceptable. I think that it can only somehow better regulate this relationship and perhaps even contribute to some positive point in relations between the two. But I don't want to argue with anyone who thinks otherwise. It is probably our common interest that this sphere have more money, more resources to make the situation better, because we demand much from this sphere, especially when natural disasters occur, fires and the like. Of course, we all know 112 of them, and we expect everyone to be ready and rescue us in a moment. I would like to remind you only of a really quick intervention in these strange fires that occurred at the beginning of last year at different ends, especially in the Celje area, and only because of rapid intervention, especially by voluntary firefighters, there has been no more serious damage. For already what was, the vital parts of the truly important pillars of the Slovenian economy were destroyed. That was all that mattered. It would not be good and productive for us to have a conflict here too. We both need, we both need, we both need, we want, we both need more money. That's what's most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I would like to replicate to my colleague, Mr Petan, because he mentioned some facts that simply do not. If we go to see the current composition of this committee, it was drawn up on the basis of parity, precisely because all the disagreements that have been in the organisations, in the fire department, about professional firefighters, and so on, would not continue here. This committee shall be an expert committee. This Committee shall decide on the type of equipment to be procured. It also decides which regions will be targeted, which research will be commissioned and so on. It means that the profession is represented here, which means that experts will be both from voluntary firefighter organisations and professional firefighter organisations. To talk about which organization is more difficult is - I think - wrong. Both of them have the same thing. And that's why I think it's right to come from the parity base of such a committee. Because if we play with numbers, we won't get far. Because the statistics, if we start turning it, we'll see that it turns in a different direction quickly. It is not true that there are 120 000 volunteer firefighters in Slovenia. Members of voluntary fire companies, that's 120,000. However, if we are talking about operational and this is what we and our National Assembly must be interested in, and the Ministry of Defence and Administration for Protection and Rescue is the number 40,000 operational volunteer firefighters. While there's a professional 650. And if we go to statistics and what organization is essentially carrying a greater burden on our shoulders, we will soon find that statistics show slightly different: for the sake of professional firefighters. And if we had 5171 fires in Slovenia in 2000, that means that with the number of members of both parties, and if we put these issues in a relationship, we will find that it belonged to a professional firefighter 7.95 fires, while one volunteer firefighter is 0.12. It's totally -- I don't think it goes on in the sense of looking for a bigger weight here or there. We need to find that both organisations are important, that probably professional firefighters are the ones who perform the first strike, at least in the larger centres, I am talking about the cities where they are organised - I think there are 15 in Slovenia - and of course there are thousands of voluntary firefighters who, in certain areas, provide the first intervention force when they are still called, if it is necessary, but in most cases there are so-called second-persons who come to the aid of professional professionals because they are clearly there 24 hours a day, they come to help. If we make this reduction in the number of professional firefighters here, we will only do one thing: we will find another point of conflict between professional and voluntary firefighters. Don't do this! The eluded practice in the previous committee was that they discussed this and you said it yourself, they do not have a majority, so much the sadness is that by doing so we will reduce one more firefighter in this committee, which I think a fireman's voice, both professional and voluntary, must have his own professional word. So please support us in that this amendment of government is not accepted, even though I am from a government party, but I think it is professionally flawed and that you leave these solutions, which have been running so far, and that this practice, however, should continue as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you. Both respected colleagues ignored or listened to what I said at the outset. We are discussing the law in its entirety. You two jumped on the amendment and discussed it. I don't think they're gonna do it again. Who wants another word? Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. In fact, the law is entirely just this amendment. I would like to point out that the first government proposal was for these committees to be abolished at all. All right, I also accept this that they do not end if the majority will is such, but I think it would be no harm if we took into account - even though I am not in the government coalition, and sometimes I must give it to the government right if the proposal is good - I think that this proposal was good and probably nothing would be wrong and it would probably be the least of the damage if we did it and would then take into account the government's proposal. But okay, the biggest client has a different opinion, which he has a right to. However, let me be allowed, given that I mentioned the great fires in the Celje area earlier and also know them a little bit better, I would limit myself to just one or two, say, Zreče and Rogaška Slatina, Glass and Tourism Unior. These were basically just two fires, but the damage was like hundreds of other minor fires. I don't want to be famous to anybody here right now, but in both cases, there were volunteer firefighters who came here just like they were professional, and I have to admit that. And you probably agree, very statistically, that there are only so many and so many fires or so many interventions, that's not the only criterion; but I'm going to leave that because I don't want to pour oil on fire. I would only mention - and I think it is right to remember this - the case of Croatia. In Croatia, they wanted to give full attention to professional firefighters, and they did. What was the effect? They completely destroyed voluntary firefighting. They completely destroyed it. We have good contacts and I must tell you that I am sorry - although I am so alone in the field of voluntary firefighting as you, Sir Marsich, are in professionalism, but this is irrelevant. But what I'm saying is that I also know this problem from a neighbouring country, because we still have good contacts and we are well informed. In Croatia now the matter has come so far as to be corrected that professional firefighters cannot do everything because they do not have enough money to pay for it and volunteer firefighters are no longer. That's where the system collapsed, and we can't go this way. I would not like, for example, the existing practice to show that there are certain antagonisms, which does not mean that we are keeping them going, but we are trying to outrun them. It's the only solution. As I said, both of them need help. And when we voted on other marriage proposals that could help both of us, and then some of us were in a minority, it doesn't matter whether we're firefighters or not, the facts are that. I will not appeal to you. Please support this amendment of the government. Otherwise I will, because I think it is good, and I have supported it on the committee, and I will do it today. I have also defended it, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of the people with whom I have spoken, who think it would be good. Of course, everyone can make a decision on their conscience and I will not discuss it again. I think I've said more than enough. The one who knows the matter will try to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? General debate. Please. There are no debaters. Mr. Pohorec, please. This is a legal proposal, if I may remind you. He doesn't want a word. Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding this debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. An amendment of the Government to Article 1 has been tabled in the bill. We have heard the debate and replicas of two of our colleagues on this subject. Anyone else want a word on this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on the government's amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 21 Members and Members voted against 27. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I'm asking about coordination. Is he okay? Thank you. Let us also vote on the proposal as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank Dr. Time for explanations, for presence. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT LAW ON THE REFERENCE OF CRIME, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative of the government, Mr Jenul, and ask if he wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of April of this year, found that the law on the correction of wrongs is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not provide that the beneficiary of this law is entitled to be deprived of his liberty in the pension period at the latest from the date on which he applied for recognition of the status or right. The Constitutional Court states that this violates equality before the law. Some beneficiaries will be shorter or longer, even a few years without the right granted them by law, while others may have enjoyed this right by now. In particular, those who find it more difficult to recognise the status or right may be discriminated against, even after the Commission’s multiple decisions and after years of administrative disputes. In accordance with the instructions, as set out in the reasoning of this Constitutional Court decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal to amend the law on the correction of wrongs by providing that, in the case of the retirement of beneficiaries who are granted pension periods under this Act for a certain additional period of time, that period shall be taken into account from the date on which the application for recognition of the status or right is made. At the same time, the law provides that beneficiaries who have already been granted a pension shall have the right to submit a new request to the competent district office of the pension and disability insurance institution. In accordance with the decision of the parent committee, the applicant verified the financial data on the burdens to be incurred for the institution of pension and disability insurance of Slovenia and found that the total amount of pension liabilities paid so far under this Act would amount to approximately 240 million, which means that the additional obligation, taking into account the fact that these are shorter periods, and taking into account that some beneficiaries who have already had a full period have already been recognised, and considering that not all have submitted such applications also represented a relatively small budget burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Is the rapporteur here? It doesn't look like it. I think we've got this in the file. The report is presented in writing so that we can get acquainted with it. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with representatives of the parliamentary groups?I have no application. [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports. I limit the remaining discussions to five minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. There were no amendments to this law, so we have three articles in the debate. We have to discuss each article separately, because there are no amendments, etc., in the second reading, and vote separately. I am opening the debate on Article 1. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we can go to the vote on Article 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] Article 1 is adopted. We're moving on to Article 2. There were no amendments here either. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on Article 2. Let's vote. Of the 51 present, 50 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] Article 2 is adopted. We are still voting, sorry, under Article 3. Article 3 reads: I will read this more out of spite: "This law shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." Who wants to discuss this article? [[Nobody.]] I hope that the business commission will come up with a procedure over this article. No one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a vote on Article 3. Let's vote. Of the 50 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Article 3 is also adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the title of the law. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 48 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since there were no amendments, we voted on the articles, and we voted on the title. And now I am opening a full debate on the proposal for a law. We're in third reading. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the second reading bill and that no amendments can be tabled in the third reading and we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. So we decide the whole law. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 48 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - First draft of the amendment and amendment of the Road Safety Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jožet Ašić. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Azhitch? [[He won't, I don't see those initiatives.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The Internal Policy Committee is headed by Mr Lavrinc, and I do not know who the rapporteur is right now. [[He's not a reporter.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary of State Molan, whom I warmly welcome on this occasion, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Alcohol in road traffic in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the main causes of a relatively large number of dead, severely injured [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u105	Mr Secretary of State, it is customary to stand up when spoken in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u106	I'm sorry. It is still under the influence of about a quarter of road accident drivers with fatal outcome, about one fifth of traffic accidents with serious injuries and dozens of traffic accidents with minor injuries. Of all drivers causing accidents, 8.5% are under the influence of alcohol. These are the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment of the Road Safety Act. In support of this decision, I also provide information that 6,500 road traffic drivers with more than 1.5 alcohol protégés in their blood and 1,680 drivers with more than 1.1 alcohol protégés in their blood were identified during the eight months of this year. At the same time, I would like to point out that the amendment to the Act on Offences in the Supplement to the 31st Article has mitigated the penalty for the termination of the driving licence by allowing seven penalty points to be imposed instead of the imposition of the foreign penalty for the termination of the driving licence, so that the withdrawal of the driving licence or the prohibition of driving licence is no longer binding. These are the reasons why the Government does not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I therefore note that the Government does not support this proposal, as does the working body, as we can see from the material, does not support this amendment of the law. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written applications, so each debate will be limited to five minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. The decision reads: "Proposal of a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act, first review, is not adopted." Who wants to discuss this proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Because it does not want to, we are going through a decision on the proposed decision. Let us vote, please, on the proposed decision. Let's vote! Of the 47 present, 40 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision is adopted, the legislative procedure is thus terminated and this item is thus concluded. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence at this point. We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SELF LAW, A QUICK PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. At the 7th meeting, the Assembly held its first consideration of the draft law and then decided that the second and third proceedings should be moved to one of the following meetings. That's how we're doing second reading now. It is said that we are discussing and deciding on individual articles of the bill. First of all, I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it is opposed by at least 1/3 Members and Members. We vote on this proposed decision. Let's vote! I find that we have some problems with the conclusion or attention, so we will repeat the vote. Once again, we are voting on this, essentially a procedural decision. Another time. Of the 46 present, 41 members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.10.2001. We've got this on the table today, today we've got these amendments, there's 12 pages. I'm telling you this so we can have the right material in our hands. We're just moving on to Article 1. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u108	The self-contribution known to Slovenia is unknown elsewhere in the world. In England, the closest case is from EU Member States. Switzerland has an extremely developed institute of referendum, even in the smallest units, they decide on all local matters, including financing and taxes. In Europe, in almost all countries, the referendum is a form of direct democracy, but in particular in its political function, nowhere in the function of introducing taxes or contributions. In the United States of America and Canada, they do not know the form of a self-contribution to finance municipal affairs and infrastructure. In both countries, they know the system of donations and the system of bonds, which are very precisely regulated and safe investments. Therefore, in both over-estimated countries they use the bond system to finance local and regional needs, bonds constitute an obligation of the bondholder, a relatively safe and almost non-taxable investment of the bond owner. Normally, the owner of the facility is the one who signs or guarantees the payment, the nominal value of the bond itself and the interest on the bonds. However, I have read the conclusion of the study made by the Research Department, the research sector of the National Assembly, and I have read this because, in the context of the amendment tabled under Article 1 to try to introduce into this self-sustainment law, which is totally contrary to similar legislation in Europe, there is one provision that would slightly mitigate the purpose of this law, namely, we propose that a self-sustainment can be introduced for the construction and reconstruction of that public infrastructure which is not defined as a condition for meeting the needs and tasks in its area after Article 13 and Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government. In other words, we propose that this exception in funding which other countries of Europe do not know, if introduced, should be introduced only for some superstandard needs, not for the performance of the tasks of municipalities defined in the Local Self-Government Act. I'm stressing again. I have read the conclusion on purpose because Europe does not know the same arrangements as we do with this law. In this sense, it is also our amendment to Article 1. I propose that we support this amendment, because there is really no reason why, at the time we enter the European Community when we take over the European order, we adopt a law that has absolutely nothing to do with this European order. Finally, the response - in our second reading, we interrupted the debate on this law and called on local communities to give an opinion - also the response of local communities, was an exceptional medal. Let me remind you that only 10 congregations have responded, of which 2 have not commented on this law. However, if I may say my own humble opinion, there were at least five, half of these congregations, those that would never introduce self-contribution or would never have to, because they belong to that part of the municipalities which do not need to be self-contributioned, in order to alleviate, by the intent of this law, the loss of income that the State should direct to the local level. Once again, I call upon all of you to support this Article 1 and, in general, I take once again the opportunity and I call upon all of you to vote against this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few words, or I take advantage of this amendment, or this possibility of saying that I still shrug my thoughts a little bit in general, once again and again to accept this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u111	I apologize, Mr. Rupar, but in the debate on the amendments. It is explicitly stated to the Rules of Procedure: let us discuss Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. The general debate on this is no longer possible and a broader and in-depth debate is no longer possible. Therefore, I ask you to limit yourself to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. This is the subject of this debate. I forgive myself for this intervention, but that's what the rules of procedure are.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for reminding me. I'll use or follow your instructions and check in before you read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Dr. Tucky.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u114	Respectable. Already in the first reading, this issue was put at the forefront and it is true, this question is still the heart of the problem. For standard infrastructure, public funds from taxes and other budgetary revenues from these funds are certainly collected, and the State, whether it is the municipality or any other community, is obliged to build a standard infrastructure. In this case, I believe that it would be an invitation to tender or to accept a referendum on standard infrastructure, in order to keep the state quiet on the one hand, because some additional resources and additionally exhausting its taxpayers for the same purpose and, on the other hand, unfair treatment of taxpayers. I think it is extremely important whether this law will protect, according to domestically said government or local'shampariya', and somehow allow the building of standard infrastructure in this way, by then transferring taxpayers' resources for some other purpose or by saying so, as proposed, that taxpayers can come up with a higher standard of infrastructure and also, of course, finance and manufacture it in their own way. That's exactly what the amendment is about. I'm not suggesting you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I must say that I object to such an amendment for one very simple reason. But we live in an environment that is real. Just referring to what's supposed to be isn't enough. And it probably won't be a good time. This means that there is only a need to settle an area. With regard to the amendment to Article 1, it is simply that we have to have a law that regulates rules and that also takes into account that this self-contribution or referendum on self-contribution, however, is a category that is democratic, which is not imposed and is not a matter of local or non-elite, such a law should be and, in my opinion, could be imposed on someone. People come to the polls and decide what to do. They decide that they want to improve their lives. But we try to take the right to tell them what they can do and where they can improve in our opinion. I am speaking a little wider, although I want to remain only in that this amendment to Article 1 speaks only of a superstandard which is not defined, which is not known exactly what this superstandard should be. And all I'm trying to say is that this is something a country has to do at all levels. While we are aware, of course, that this country will not be able to cover all the desires, not the desires, but the needs that people will have at all levels. I therefore object to restricting and advocating that we only regulate and give equal opportunities to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u117	This way I have a replica as a member of the National Assembly, if you don't mind. I'm taking this opportunity. I hope, Mr Kremjar, that you will have the same opinion when we talk about the referendum. Thank you. [[A voice from behind.]] Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u118	Then, of course, you will hear, and I hope to be of the same opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? There's no more debate. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1 and Article 1 in full. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We have one amendment under Article 1. Let's vote please! Of the 51 present, 19 votes in favour and 29 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 53 present, 42 members and Members voted in favour. Ten were against it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We move on to Article 2, where there are four amendments. I'm opening a debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u120	Please, does anyone want to discuss this? Member Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain my amendment to the amendment of the parliamentary groups or coalitions. The intention of my amendment is to tighten the minimum result or condition for voting. In the past or in recent years, we have tried practically two extremes, from the absolute majority that we have enacted, I think that in 1998 with the law on local self-government, to the relative majority or other borders that we have enacted with the last amendment of the law on local self-government. The proposals, the four members of the group, now propose something intermediate. However, it is still necessary to realise that the voting beneficiaries are not identical to the voters we are accustomed to, but that the voting beneficiaries will be significantly less, as this depends on income. Secondly, this border between the voting beneficiaries or the self-sustainment debtors will be constantly changing and, theoretically, the number of beneficiaries may fall below the minimum after being voted on. In order to avoid these unnecessary concerns, I propose that the self-contribution should be made subject to the condition that the majority of the beneficiaries participated in the vote, that the majority of those who participated in the vote were voting, but that it should be more than one third of all the voting beneficiaries. This is a reminder, translated into another language, that the minimum participation, 50% plus one beneficiary, is a two-thirds majority, which later falls to the general majority by increasing participation in the referendum. That is the point, and I think that if we went to the practice of analysing successful and failed referendums, this would prove to be an appropriate sharpening, which is also known in a number of other legislations. I therefore plead that in some way we should tighten up such a tightening to one third of all beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Please, Commissioner Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I must say that I understand Mr Trophynik's wish that as many people as possible decide a matter or vote, and it is legitimate and it would be right to do so. But of course we have a problem. However, we should adopt such a law, which can also be implemented in practice, and which referendum can also be carried out. We have, I think -- and that's going to be enough -- a strong fuse. This fuse is 50% of all must attend after the amendment, which we then propose below. Unfortunately, I have to connect because in this way I can explain why I am against such an amendment - which must attend the referendum. This is the toughest version of the referendum that we currently have, which means that more than 50% of the people, if they don't come to the polls, the referendum is gone, there is no self-contribution and there is already a huge demand for these people and it allows in some way some democraticity of the whole thing. If we introduce a further increase, as colleague Trofenik suggests, we can indeed lead to a law, an option that will not be feasible in practice, and of course we have done nothing about it. I therefore propose that we not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you. Please, Member Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look. Both the second and third amendments to the amendment and the amendment of the four groups of Members are contrary to what I had just heard. You have vehemently claimed that the referendum is a form of introducing a tax for which the majority of all electoral beneficiaries are, at the same time, advocate for a provision that according to your 25% and one electoral beneficiary could write and introduce a tax. After Mr Trofenic's modified performance, it is, I think, 33% plus one. This is still only 33% plus one electoral beneficiary for a certain duty to be imposed in an area, a duty that is distinctly contrary to a European regulation that Europe does not know. This is clearly and loudly recorded in the research task carried out by the research sector of the National Assembly. I call on you, and I ask you to support the fourth amendment, if we are already going to go to this law, the amendment of the committee, which clearly and loudly states that in order to introduce this tax, a referendum for self-contribution must be voted on if more than 50% of the voting beneficiaries vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u126	Replica, Member Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you. Both forerunners. The comparison with Europe is possible in place, but it is essential that the Constitutional Court finds that the introduction of self-contribution is not contrary to our constitution. I mean, this is to be understood from the decision, and in fact, by adopting this law we are implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court - this is what we all forget together, because otherwise this procedure would not have been. I agree or agree to contribute myself, but I also agree that the appropriate majority will decide for it. This proposal, which is the fourth in line to which the speaker advocated, we had a law-abiding change to the last amendment of the law on local self-government and proved to be too harsh in practice. That is why I have also proposed an interim solution. The colleague who had previously discussed the content of my amendment is not feasible in practice, this is not true. It just means that instead of 25+1, you have to have 33, and that there is less discussion or problem-solving, which is the appropriate majority. However, there is no difference in practical implementation. Maybe if you wrote something else, 30%, then you could do a little bit harder in practice and figure out what's on the basis of the electoral directory that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Replica, Member Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u129	It appears to be a misunderstanding, Comrade Trofenik. I don't think it's technically impossible to perform in practice. Of course it's possible. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about content and I'm talking about meeting, we're always going to be more tired of people, we're going to go to these kinds of things, and it's going to be very hard to get 50+1 citizens, local or whatever. That's the problem with most of this. On the other hand, since this assumption has always been and will be, we assume that all 49+ is up to 50 automatic versus or because it has not been defined, of course, on the one hand, who does not want this clearly does not. My debate is only about keeping some normal numbers that would allow a referendum on self-contribution, where people want to do so, to succeed. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The debate, Commissioner Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In fact, there is little replica, because I am very surprised that here, as a strong argument, there is talk about how Europe does not know self-contribution; and this, in fact, from the representatives of the party where we are used to talking a lot in the near past about the will of the people and so on. But since I'm right about the word, I have to admit, I'm a little bit separated. At this point, I am not sure how I will vote because both Mr Trofenik's arguments and his colleague Leon's arguments are worth reconsidering. Of course, that is why I am interested in the Government's position on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u132	Wait a minute! I know there's more than one debater. Please, Member Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My opinion on this amendment is that the amendment by my colleague Trofenika is correct. Look, the first thing about the dilemma raised by Comrade Sušnik, I don't think it's really in place. The locals will decide in a given territory, whether the citizens or whatever the term is called, and all the electoral beneficiaries will be invited to the referendum. So that's how everyone's gonna get a chance to make a decision. It is right that this quorum of participation is 51 per cent which in some ways gives greater legitimacy to this referendum as well. On the other hand, it is also likely that this minimum threshold from possibly 25+1% will increase to 1/3 of all those electoral beneficiaries. It is one new duty, which will in some way overtake everything, including those who will leave the decision to the others who will attend such a self-contribution referendum. That would probably suggest actually supporting the amendment of colleague Trofenik's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u135	Yes, a replica of Mr. Beumann. I think it's too much of a fear to change our attitude towards the referendum. Mr. Beumann, you did not listen to me when I quoted the conclusion of our research sector of the National Assembly. Here, in this conclusion, it is explicit that in Europe almost all countries, the referendum is a form of direct democracy, but in particular in its political function. In his political function. I think that's the point. However, we have made it clear in the Social Democratic Party that we are opposed to the referendum as a form of decision to introduce some form of taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you. Replica, Member Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. I repeat to Mr. Beumann when it comes to the will of the people. That's right. But the people's will is also that someone can't prescribe you a tax on things that the state should handle. It's the second one. But you obviously didn't accept that amendment when we talked about it. In this respect, Europe has saved people's will in this respect, and it has done so with equity companies. They do not know such a way of financing some facilities that can then be owned at a later stage. That's what's happening with us now. In those days when we've introduced self-contribution, it's fine. I voted for him myself. Today, when we arrive at a time when property also represents something and also binds, today these objects, which were built by common funds, are owned. Citizens don't have to prove their share at all. How can someone prove it? Even if someone tried, and had some papers to pay for their own contribution, that would be, in effect, impossible. This is why the developed Europe does not know such a tax referendum, but it does know the political one. That's me. I agree with that. Europe and, in general, the countries to which we want to compare ourselves have solved this problem with companies in shares. If I have an interest that I will possibly build such a pipeline, I will invest my resources and, of course, others, and I will have an automatic contribution, depending on my monetary contribution, my share in the management of this facility. This is how others saved, so they built railways across continents, so they also build roads and different other objects, whatever it is, it's a stock company, but it's not a form of self-contribution "please" when someone prescribes a tax to someone and then, of course, they have to pay for it, but for that money you can wipe out, and ten of them will be owned by that object that we built together. That's what this is all about. I don't object to any of these funds being built up. That's positive. However, then we must also have our administrative rights over this; but it usually happens that the management rights of a narrow group of people or even the property, which of course is nothing wrong, must be owned, but it must be owned by someone who gives the resources - the one who does, must also manage - a shareholder society, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Replica, Member Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you. I hate to, but I'm forced to replicate both predecessors. I want to remind you of something, it's not meant to be a replica. When you speak, it's a tax that's introduced in the most democratic way. However, be aware, dear colleagues, that in the Europe we are talking about, the local community or its representative body or the world has the right to impose a tax, but not with us. In this sense, we are one step forward in terms of democracy - we are introducing a tax in the most democratic way, but the municipal council does not have the right under our legislation to lay down, within no context, a tax, which is the rule in Europe. Secondly, I am very disturbed by the simplification that the state has to do something - I would advise that we read well, if not the other, the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the relationship between the state and the local community, what someone has to do and who has to do something to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u141	Now I'm going to be very brief because my colleague Willi took that lead part from me. On this occasion, gentlemen, who are so keenly advocating that this law should be reversed, so to reject it, would recall a procedure that will soon be in this national assembly. This is when we go to crush this beloved little Slovenia on the mini and micro municipalities, first of all, give people the chance to dominate themselves, then, look at it, the fraction, here we are, and now you provide us with sufficient money from the state budget. That's not how it works. That's really not how it works. At least remember what I've done to you today in some way "before" when we decide on new municipalities that are absolutely capable of their survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u143	President, thank you so much for your word. It's not a replica, but we're talking about the texts we got in the amendment review on 23.10.2001. Under number 2, you have an amendment to the amendment and under number 3 of the amendment to be voted on. That means we'd vote first on the amendment to the amendment, that's under number 2, and then we'd vote under number 3. This thing is contradictory, it doesn't hold up because you'd make a mistake. That is why I think and call on Mr Trofenik because he has the same text, and in this text differs from number 2 to number 3 of Trofenic's text only in that there is still a phrase 'and at the same time this majority represents at least one third of all the voting beneficiaries entered in the electoral directory'. This means that colleagues Trofenik, if you would like to make an amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members under number three, should write that after the words "who voted", add what "and at the same time this majority represents etc. "If we now vote on the amendment and then vote on the amendment, we will get something that does not support the criteria of formal logic. If we are discussing these matters, we can either discuss two separate amendments or colleague Trofenik needs to correct his amendment to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Ambassador Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I am aware that you can take my word away from me, but given that you have allowed the distinguished Mr Lavrinac, I will also try to respond as soon as possible. Mr Lavrinc will probably remember that the first person to commit a misdemeanor in respect of small municipalities was your party in the previous term when you wanted to have a municipality with 600 inhabitants in the Upper Savinja Valley. When this taboo has fallen, then every local community has the right to identify itself as its own congregation and to be informed. The original sin, Mr. Lavrinc, was there. You remember, we discussed this a lot, so we don't have to "do it" like you said. But it would be good for you to first sweep below your threshold, and then we may be able to define ourselves better in these definitions for the new congregations, according to your thinking. Thank you very much and I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u146	Replica, Member Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u147	Well, I'll be very brief. I believe that this is how Mr Trofenik, who in the past has dealt intensively with local self-government, such as Mr Lavrinc, who is the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and is now actively involved in local self-government, has not forgotten when they cited their views on the fact that there is another specificity in Slovenia, namely that our country places on the local level a total of 5% of the gross social product, but that the first closest comparable country in Europe is with 20% of the gross social product it places on the local level. As a result of this fact, I believe that the adoption of this law, which, because of the defect I have mentioned, also allows certain local communities or parts of the local community to help themselves to replace the difference that is evident through self-taxation. Mr Lavrinc has had twice the opportunity to hear this statement of European parliamentarians in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Now, if you'll excuse me, I don't know if it's a replica or a Procedural, Mr. Kebrich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u149	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. I have a procedural proposal. Member Mojet's colleague warned me that she had put me in a dilemma, or that we would not end up finding that this was not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Please ask our legal service whether his comment is justified or whether the amendment to Article 2 has been properly tabled, and we will vote specifically on the third amendment, but I am joining this logic so that we cannot have an amendment if we do not have an article first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u150	I must explain that I have received an explanation of the professional services from which the following is evident. Under point 2, there is no amendment to the amendment, only an amendment. If the amendment under point 2 is adopted, then there will be no vote on point 3, because it will be irrelevant. Does Member Trofenik agree? [[Yeah.]] Now, if you'll excuse me. I think Member Diaca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u151	I'd argue, but I think Comrade Lavrinc has a replica, so I'm giving him a head start.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u152	Ambassador Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u153	I'd tell my colleague over there that I've read somewhere, if you want three of the biggest lies in the world to say, you can say for the first time statistics, statistics and one more stats. [[...]] In the items within the ministries, look at the numbers that are intended for investment in local communities, and we will clarify how many percentages are actually allocated to us, and how many percentages are drawn from your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Diaca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief because there's been a lot of talk about this. In our parliamentary group we will only support the first amendment, and this is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are of the opinion that a high consensus is needed in the introduction of some kind of self-taxation and that an absolute majority is essential for the success of this referendum. We will not support all other solutions, nor will our support for this law depend on this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the amendments. First, we vote on amendment number one. Let's vote please! There are 54 Members and Members present. For 40, against 11. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under number 2, we are now voting on the amended amendment of Trofenik Villa. If this is adopted, of course, the third is irrelevant. Let's vote! 53 present, 16 for, 32 versus. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Let's vote for amendment number three. Let's vote number three, please. There are 57 Members and Members present, 36 for, against 15. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] The amendment was adopted. Vote explanation, Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u157	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u158	Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u159	It seems to me that we cannot vote on the fourth amendment, because this has already been decided by the amendment we have just adopted. This second piece, so to speak, because it is written that it should be as an editorial, given that no woman and male form has been used, will, of course, carry out the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, because we will have some more such amendments where expressions for male and female form will be used. But according to the content, we've already covered this thing, as I said, with the amendment under point three.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In your opinion, then, is this amendment irrelevant?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u161	Exactly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The amendment is irrelevant. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. Please, we're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 38, for 15. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 15.]] Article 2 was adopted. We have a section 5 and an amendment on the table. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Sok, Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u163	I would like to ask, on a procedural basis, what status does Mr Lavrinc have to determine which amendments are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u164	As chairman of the committee who proposes this amendment. However, I have decided, of course, as chairman, because I am interpreting the Rules of Procedure and I understand it in this sense. Thank you very much. We are discussing Article 5 and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members and Members present, 41 for, 12 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, 41 for, against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] Article 5 was adopted. We move on to Article 7 where the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 36, for 9. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 40, for 6. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 7 is fully adopted. We are moving on to Articles 11 and 12. Article 11 is on page 6. So, there's a connection between the second amendment. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 41 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the third amendment to Article 12. [[page 7]] . Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, 38 for, against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We return to Article 9, where we have four amendments and an additional amendment, which you received in writing on the table about a quarter of an hour ago; the proposaler is Vila Trofenik. So we have five amendments. Anybody want to talk? Please, Member Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Since Comrade Trofenik is absent, I would explain his amendment on his behalf. The fact is that the threshold of 20% of the average annual salary as defined in the amendment to Article 9 is too low. In this way, citizens with guaranteed salaries are also affected, saying that their annual income is approximately 500,000 or less. Therefore, it would be preferable for the amendment to raise this rate to 25%. Of course, this means that they also do not have the right to vote or to participate in the referendum, nor do they have the obligation to pay contributions. I'd like this amendment to the amendment to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We shall first vote on the amendment to amendment number one. Let's vote, please. 53 Members and Members present. 37 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was adopted. We're voting under number two, but not the amendment under number two, but the material we got on the bench. This is Member Villa Trophynik. Please, we're voting. 54 Members and Members are present. For 44, against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the amendment referred to in material number 2. Let's vote, please. 51 Members and Members present. 35 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. The amendment is linked to Article 10 and Article 14, or amendments thereto. Please move on to Article 10. We have one amendment related to that article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 51 Members and Members present. 39 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We still have a related amendment to Article 14. That's on page 7. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 50 Members and Members present. Thirty-eight, six against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We're going back to Article 9 and amendment number 3. Let's vote, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u167	Mr Vice-President, I have withdrawn the amendment under number 3, otherwise the same text as the amendment to the amendment under number 1 which has already been adopted. It's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. So we're not voting on this amendment. We have yet to vote on amendment number four. Let's vote, please. 49 Members and Members present. For 41, against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote please! There are 51 Members and Members present. 41 for, against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are still voting on Article 10 as a whole. You remember the amendment, it's already been adopted. We are voting on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote please! There are 50 Members and Members present. 39 for, against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 11 and to Amendment 1 and Amendment 2 has been adopted. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote please! There are 48 Members and Members present. 39 for, versus 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 11 as a whole. Let's vote please! 49 Members and Members are present. 41 for, against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 12. Three amendments. We've already dealt with the third one. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the first amendment. Let's vote please! There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 for, versus 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote please! There are 47 Members and Members present. 38 for, against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote please! There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. At Article 14, we have already voted on the amendment. We still have to vote on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 39 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We're moving on to Article 15. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 15. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 42, for 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, 37, 4 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 16 of which four amendments have been tabled. If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, all other amendments are irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on amendment number one. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 39 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; the other amendments to this Article have become irrelevant. The Article is amended in its entirety. We're looking at Article 17, where there's one amendment. [[page 10]] . Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 40 for, against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 40, for 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amendment. Let's vote please! 52 Members and Members are present. 41 for, against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote please! There are 47 Members and Members present. 37 for, against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are considering amendments to Article 22. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Excuse me, we have an amendment. Excuse me. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote please! There are 54 Members and Members present. 42 for, against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and, at the same time, a full article. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 26. Here are the three amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the first amendment to Article 26. Let's vote please! There are 53 Members and Members present. 39 for, versus 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote please! There are 48 Members and Members present. 38 for, against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We vote on the third amendment. Let's vote please! There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 for, against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote please! There are 50 Members and Members present. 42 for, versus 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We still vote on the remaining articles. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 41 for, against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] The remaining articles were adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate, we vote on the title of the law. We're voting, please. There are 53, 45 for, 5 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] The title was accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to the following Articles have been adopted: 2, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22 and 26. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Please, Member Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. We have adopted or you have adopted a second reading of the most pointless law proposed for adoption in this mandate. The assessment is entirely in place if we look at the vitality of this law. No one will be able to make a self-contribution after what you've accepted. Whatever the case, you will find that, sooner or later, you will find that things are not legally harmonised, that non-life matters are also in play, when a street with 30 percent or less of its population can decide on self-contribution and the surrounding area will have to pay. You have also accepted that the weekend settlement will be able to vote on a self-contribution that will then be paid by people who have permanent residence there. Even so far away, we have taken or removed this law so that you can finally recover the self - contributions of people who may be as far as 1,000 miles [1,000 km] away as they are from, say, the inhabitants or citizens of another republic, and have possession in the territory or in the congregation where the contribution is made. I'm curious about how you're going to make a payment across the meadow, like an American citizen who's going to get the land back in the local community after the denationalisation law, where self-contribution will be. So it's a very pointless marriage. We may have understood a mistake, so I would suggest, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that we first get a copy of what you have accepted, that we look at compliance with the law, compliance with the Constitution and with other laws, and finally we can go to a third reading decision after this writing. So please, if we can stop the point and continue it when we get a copy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u170	I don't know if this is a procedural proposal. So the procedural proposal to break the point and prepare a third reading copy is put to the vote by 50 present. Twenty-two, twenty-four. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 24.]] The procedural proposal has not been adopted. The next Members will discuss, Wolf, no, he has renounced, Malovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u171	I would tell my fellow Member, Rupar, only this. Those against self-contribution do not come to the referendum and have a 75 percent chance of the referendum falling.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u172	Mr Diaca will be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. We have tabled an amendment to Article 2. I think they're bringing him in right now, so I'd like to ask if we can wait for him to split up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u174	Anyone else want to discuss the whole law? The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party was announced. I will if you just let me read it. Amendment to Article 2: The second paragraph of Article 2 shall be amended to read: "The contribution shall be introduced after a previous referendum in which the majority of all the voting beneficiaries in a particular area have been pronounced for the introduction of a self-contribution." Anybody want to talk? Please, Commissioner Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I will not list all the arguments, because much has already been said about this today. All I'm asking you to do is imagine a village where 25 percent plus 1 tax is going to be the other 75 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I am making an amendment to Article 2, Member Rokavec. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. It is difficult to discuss this amendment, which has only been read, but if I have correctly understood my colleague Diacia, their amendment is in the context that most voters decide to introduce a self-contribution. I think that's a very high criterion. Today, it has been said several times that all the voting beneficiaries invited to the referendum have the opportunity to participate in the referendum and also to give their vote or decision. It is therefore right to support the solution that we have already voted on today, even though it was an attempt to make it a slightly higher quorum. Thank you very much. I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u179	I think this amendment is worth supporting. For the sake of understanding, it must also be said that the Committee has proposed a similar amendment already in the second reading, but in fact this amendment is slightly contrary to all those who speculate on the adoption of this law with increasing electoral participation or the passive electoral abstinence that we are increasingly witnessing in our country. Let us set a clear threshold, which should be a condition for only taxation of an environment in some, I am sure, not an urban centre, because there is no need for these taxes, but somewhere in the region far beyond Ljubljana, because in the past such taxes or self-contributions were not in urban centres or cities. That's what I've been hoping to say for the last 10 years, before I know they were. I would appeal to you to support this amendment. I'll back him up myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Member Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'm not going to repeat what we've said many times today. I just want to be perfectly specific. Mr Sušnik, and I repeat to him, of course, takes up an option that he has already talked about several times today and that is legitimate and right and I respect it. But it is not true that the committee has ever proposed such an amendment and a majority such as this amendment. That's all I'm talking about. And so, not just for that reason, I will clearly not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Member Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u183	I've got procedural. I suggest we give 10 minutes of breaks, so that we get this amendment on the table too, that we know what we are going to decide in the final text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u184	Of course, I will put this to a vote, but I propose that we continue to hold a debate. In the meantime, I'm sure the material will come to the table. Member of Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u185	I will not support this amendment. My decision is justified by the following. So far, there have been referendums and infrastructure or facilities have been built mainly in urban settlements. Now it's kind of a long-distance settlement, hilly, if I say so, and they're still kind of interested in being brought to them by either the road or the plumbing or building any building. And if we accept this amendment, as proposed, in the vast majority of those where everything is already done in these urban centres, the smaller urban centres, usually do not come to a referendum. And if we accept this amendment, we will suddenly prevent all those who are still owed by our society by the municipalities and who have demanded referendum confirmation in the past, and with such an amendment they will never reach the desired infrastructure. That is why I will not support such an amendment, because the criteria already adopted are high enough. To confirm this, we did not support the earlier amendment of William Trophynik, who proposed a slightly higher percentage. So if there was a desire to do what the amendment proposes, I think that would have happened by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you. Member Sušnik first has the Replica, then the Member of the Council and the Member of the Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u187	Just an explanation to Mr. Kremjar. On page 2 of the amendment review of 23.10.2001, the amendment of which the proposer is written here is the Internal Policy Committee. For this amendment no one said that it was withdrawn, at least I did not see it, but only took note of the fact that the practically amendment of the Party of Young Slovenia is only a summary of the fourth amendment to Article 2, which we have voted on in the second reading today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Member of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Look, my personal view is that we have to have this law in the country of Slovenia, and the Secretary of State has done a great job. However, I am convinced that it is pointless to discuss the law as much as it is for citizens to decide on it at referendums if they are invited by the municipalities or local communities. And I am sure that in the situation in which the country is at social risk, I am sure that in one local community and in one municipality this moment and even for some time these referendums or self-contributions for certain development will not succeed. And it is pointless to delay and discuss, so let us go to the vote and adopt this law so that what they have done at the Ministry of the Interior will be guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you. Ambassador Rupar gave up the replica. Member Lavrinz has the floor, then Member Kremjar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u191	First, I'd like to replicate the colleague who mentioned the amendment under point 4. I guess I wasn't understanding enough. There's been a copy error here. It was a desire to correct the editorial text so that it would be a woman and a male form. However, since the content of the case is such as has already been adopted with the third amendment, and it has come to the point of copying this nonsense to say so, I have said that the amendment under number four has been consummated and is a simple decision that you have then reached on the table - this is to authorize the secretariat to use the woman and the male form in the entire text of the law. That's all it's about, so don't barter with it. Well, it's "slamparium" or a mistake, as you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Commissioner Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. If I may, I hope that I am not premature, I am announcing the amendment to Article 26 because it came after our assessment of one mistake and we would, of course, like to correct it. Speaking of which - I will explain now that it will not be necessary then - the word "free" shall be added for the word "media" in the forecast sentence of Article 26(1). This "free" will be proposed to be deleted, because this is some matter where we are interfering with a place we have no influence and it would not be right to keep it in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment and Article 2? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present for 16, 32 vs. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment was not accepted. Since another amendment has been announced, I would like to ask Commissioner Kremjar if he tells us how long this amendment will take. I'm asking, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u195	Can we ask the secretariat for an explanation regarding the amendment I am talking about?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u196	Yes, you can. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. If you'll excuse me, I'd explain only so much that the 26th member of the Secretariat can fix it in an editorial. The village’s fourth community has already been deleted in the two preceding articles by amendments, so it is certainly necessary to do so in the editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, please, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u199	I guess it was just a misunderstanding. This is a provision to be published free of charge, and this is a change in content and we will propose this change, but we need 5 to 10 minutes to divide the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm breaking this point until, of course, we get this written amendment to the bench. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. Does a representative of the bill's proposer want a word? Well, I see he's not here. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please. Wait a minute. Something's not working. One moment, please. Please, if we try. Is he all right now?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u201	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the opinion of the Secretariat for the Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Government, given the fact that an appropriate law has been adopted in the meantime that resolves the subject matter of this law, we propose to the National Assembly that it does not adopt and reject the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Mr Darko Tolar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u203	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Government's opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the customs law in the first reading is negative because the content of this proposal is already governed by the law which was dealt with in the National Assembly this year on 31 January, this was the law on the conversion of free customs shops at the road border crossings and it fully regulates this matter. So once again, the government does not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No one's been reported. So they don't want to. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the customs law, the first reading, is not adopted." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why we're going to go to the vote. I invite all Members and Members to join us in the Chamber, so we will wait a minute or two. Members and Members, please take their seats. Please, let's wait a few more minutes. We vote on the decision. Let's vote, please! Unfortunately, there are too few Members and Members present. This is why we are voting again. Another time. Let's vote, please! I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll pick it up at 5:30. [[The meeting was suspended at 5.21 p.m. and resumed at 5.31 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u205	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Once again, I ask Members and Members to take their seats. For the third time, we will vote on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 43, for 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The legislative procedure on the bill is thus concluded and I conclude this item on the agenda. We'll be back at 13. It's a day's work. I ask Commissioner Kremjar to inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I am withdrawing the foretold amendment because during the break we have aligned ourselves with our professional service and is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. There are no other amendments. I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. They say it's not broken, so we're going to make a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 38, for 10. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 10.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We also have a proposal for an additional decision on the proposal for a self-contribution law, which reads as follows: "The Secretariat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Law and Legal Affairs shall be authorised, after the final drafting of the text of the law on self-contribution, to prepare the latter by making meaningful use of women and men in those articles or chapters laying down the basic subjects of the bill, stating that the title in men's sex shall continue to be used." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on an additional decision. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 42, for 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENIAN MARK LANGUAGE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u208	Honourable Members and Members, Mr President-in-Office. In July, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposal for a law on the use of the Slovenian sign language for the first reading. The material shall be prepared on the basis of a decision taken by the Commission of the National Disability Council on 28.5. 1998 commissioned the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to send a proposal for a law on the recognition of sign language and the right of the deaf to an interpreter as soon as possible. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Articles 14, 15 and 62, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Standard Rules on the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, and in particular the Resolution on Sign Language for Deaf adopted by the European Parliament in 1988 and reiterated in 1998. The resolution calls on the Member State of the European Community to recognise the sign language of the deaf and the right to use it and the profession of interpreter for sign language. By adopting this law, Slovenia will join most European Union countries that already have a recognised right either in the constitution or have adopted it in specific laws. The need for communication is one of the basic human needs. Since deafness prevents the acceptance of sound information, deaf persons must make the communication possible on other alternative routes. Sign language gives deaf people the opportunity to express themselves and thereby prevent their isolation and enable them to exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms more equally. Recognition of sign language will increase the possibility for deaf people to have access to adequate education and social and professional inclusion. In the Republic of Slovenia, according to the association of deaf and deaf Slovenia, about 2,500 people are deaf and most of them use sign language. The right to an interpreter for sign language will only be granted to those deaf persons who, due to difficult communication, know and use sign language. This will be identified by the special commissions and, on the basis of their opinion, social work centres will issue rights decisions under this law. Under the law, deaf persons will be given the right to use sign language in all proceedings before public authorities, public authorities or public service providers, as well as in all other life situations where deafness would constitute an obstacle to meeting their needs. This right may be limited only in the provision of public service services with an individualised plan or by removing the interference of deaf persons in different ways. For example, light signals, the introduction of high technology and so on. The right to use sign language will be exercised by deaf persons by exercising the right to an interpreter. State authorities, public authorities or public service providers will be obliged to provide funds to pay the costs of interpreters for sign language, as only in this way will it be possible to provide such persons with the same services as they do. The interpreter is therefore viewed by a deaf person in these procedures free of charge. In addition, the State will grant the deaf person a free right to an interpreter for a period of 10 hours at the discretion of the deaf person on which to take advantage of this right. In this case, the deaf person will pay the interpreter with the voucher and the interpreter will pay for his services to the Ministry of Disability Care on the basis of the voucher submitted. Deaf persons will be able to choose from the list of interpreters led by the Association of Interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language. The list of interpreters will only include interpreters who will obtain a certificate in accordance with the National Professional Qualifications Act and will be entered in the Register of Interpreters to be run by the Ministry. Within 60 days of the adoption of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will set up an expert council for the Slovenian Sign Language, whose tasks will also be to take care of the development of the Slovenian Sign Language, to ensure the enforcement and equality of the Sign Language and to monitor the education, training and work of interpreters and to monitor the dynamics of obtaining certificates. The implementation of the law will require the provision of budgetary resources in 2002, when we anticipate that it will enter into force, at a level of slightly more than 27 million, as we have already foreseen in the Ministry's budget lines. The Ministry will examine the views adopted at first reading by the Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled People for the preparation of the Second Reading Act. I hereby conclude this introductory presentation and wish the law a successful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, fellow Members and colleagues! A nice greeting is also given to the Minister with the co-workers! This is the Committee of the National Assembly for Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, discussed at its 9th regular session on 13.9. Members of the Committee, in addition to the proposal and the opinion of the secretariat, were also informed of the opinion and comments of the Social Chamber of Slovenia and of the Association of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, as well as of the opinion of the Commission for Social Activities in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law, both for the purpose of the concept and the objective, was presented by the proposer, so that he would not repeat, given that Mr Minister had presented the draft law very comprehensively to the assembly earlier. The secretariat made some fundamental comments on the draft law. Articles 4, 5, 8, 12, 13, 17 and 22. However, it should be pointed out that the members of the Committee have accepted the bill as very welcome, and in this case the debate of the members and members of the Committee itself has been quite constructive and extensive. The members of the Committee drew attention in the debate to a vague provision concerning the limitation of the right to an interpreter in the provision of public service services on the basis of an individualised plan. They also considered that the status and method of financing the Association of Interpreters was unclear. The opinion was also that the second reading would indicate or consider the roles of key partners involved in the implementation of this law, namely ministries, social chambers of Slovenia, associations of deaf and deaf Slovenia, associations of interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language and, of course, the newly established body of the Professional Council. They also highlighted the provision by which the payment of the costs of the interpreter is provided by the public service providers and proposed the possibility of providing a different method of payment of the services of the interpreter. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons therefore invites the National Assembly to adopt and adopt, after the first reading of the bill, the following conclusions: "The proposal for a law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language, the first reading, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of the draft law for the second reading. The draft text for second reading shall be drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the following views which emerged from the thorough debate of Members and Members, members and members of the Committee: The proposal should examine and take into account the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. The proposer should examine the composition and tasks of the expert council and the possibility that certain tasks performed by the professional council under Article 23 of the law should be carried out by the Association of Interpreters of Slovenia and by the Social Chamber of Slovenia. The proposer should consider the possibility of the social council working for the professional council." In this respect, the main considerations are the specific administrative - technical tasks already carried out in this area by the Slovenian Social Chamber. "The proposer shall examine the possibility of funding interpreters through public authority by the Ministry directly to the contractor." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Member Tsukati first applied in writing on behalf of the SDS. I'm asking you to perform.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Slovenia we have 2,500 deaf, over 3,000 deaf, together quite a nice number of people who need state assistance in the communication. As a result, we are happy to have material in front of us that will help these people to realize these rights. But there are some basic, I'd say, congenital anomalies that we'd like to see gone in the second reading. It's the next one for a little while. Under Article 10, a deaf person has the right to use sign language in proceedings before public authorities, public authorities, public service providers. And these operators, state authorities, public authorities, public service providers, are obliged to ensure that the deaf person is entitled. This means that public authorities everywhere, including at a congregation’s window or in some other public places or places where deaf people come into contact with public service, will have to provide an interpreter. Article 12 states: "State authorities, public authorities or public service providers are obliged to provide a deaf interpreter for sign language at the request of a deaf person or on official duty as soon as the deaf person submits a document on these rights." I have experience in the infirmary myself, that twice a year a deaf person comes to me, twice a year. To many municipalities, I would say, a window where they are may come once a year from a deaf person. How can the public service provide an interpreter at that time? Let me know how. Article 12 continues: "The payment of the costs of the interpreter for the sign language referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided by the State authorities, public authorities and public service operators." How, once a year at that time, should the public service provider provide an interpreter, when it is not available, does not have a contract, probably, in what way to pay it and how to reimburse it from the State? For surely no one in the congregation will pay an interpreter out of his pocket. This is an additional cost that is likely and must be calculated. I fear or fear that this right, which is so beautifully written, will not be realized. Thus, with many of the rights that our legislation gives to taxpayers, many rights are unfulfilled. We list everything nice and well, we're beautiful words, and last but not least, we'll just move away legally, we'll be fine. It'll be all right, it'll be all right, it won't be all right. For this reason, we propose to supplement the law in such a way that this right is also achievable. However, it will be feasible from the point of view of the Association of Interpreters and the State and the budget. In Slovenia we have an extremely well-organized association of interpreters, extremely good, and we are happy to have it, this association and it would be valid to use this quality in this case. This association is included in the Social Chamber. The Chamber may have the powers conferred on it. We join the proposal, which, in a general way, is also summarized by the Committee, and I propose that the legislator or drafter of texts for the second reading prepare the text by establishing a direct link of payments from the budget to the interpreters, to the association of interpreters or to the social chamber. The Association of Interpreters could have a very clear register of interpreters, and a procedure could be put in place for the Social Chamber to issue a licence to interpreters. This would give us a very good overview of the interpreters' register. On the basis of these licences, a network of interpreters can be provided accurately, even a personal interpreter chosen for the deaf person can be set up so that the deaf person chooses a personal chosen interpreter and can, on the basis of the choice, directly go from the budget to the interpreter or through the social room or through the association of interpreters. This would also give the country direct control over the effectiveness of these funds. Control whether these rights are being exercised. This should be done if we do not accept this law with a fig in our pocket and just talk about beautiful rights, but we do not want to exercise them or take responsibility for the realization of these rights. And if, in this sense, we evaluate and use the current association of interpreters with the social council, then a deaf person with an interpreter would come to the congregation. Because a deaf person would know where her interpreter is. I'd call him on the phone. The interpreter would have come to her then and done his job in front of the window. This could provide a service. We believe that this is a viable way if we have good will. If this association and this chamber were also given appropriate powers, of course, even in article 23 they would not have encountered the unrealisation of some of the points which now authorize the expert council. Look, the expert council is supposed to be made up by a government of various representatives of the school ministry, the Ministry of Health, disability care and the like, then the associations of the deaf and the like. Of course, this world is not functional, it can be a consultative body and nothing more. However, Article 23 imposes on this world concern for the development of the Slovenian Sign Language, accompanied by education, training and work of interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language, proposes to amend the catalogue, standards of professional knowledge. In short, it imposes some professional tasks, including the award of certificates, the distribution of licenses for interpreters, then it monitors education, training and so on, what no such consultative body can do. This may be an institution, such as a chamber, which also has a bureaucrat cadre, which monitors all those who know and care about people in the social chamber domain. So, so amended the law, so supplemented the law of course socialdemocrats we gladly support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Member of the Czech Republic will speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! Equality before the law is one of the foundations of our country's modern constitutional orientation. The implementation of this principle requires, in practice, legal solutions in all areas, in particular those who interfere with the rights of persons with disabilities, in our case of deaf and deaf persons, so that they can communicate with state authorities and in other life situations where deafness would be an obstacle to meeting their needs. The issue of solving the problem has been open since 1991, when the concept of a disability development strategy was adopted on the basis of a declaration on the rights of persons with disabilities with objectives to be taken into account in this law. In addition, the law must be based on guidelines that follow common global and European standards, including a resolution on sign language for deaf adopted by the European Parliament and standard rules for the equalization of the opportunities of disabled persons adopted by the UN General Assembly. In view of the fact that this issue has been open for 11 years, we believe it is high time for the law to be settled. Despite our support for the bill, we believe that the problem needs to be raised more broadly. The law refers to the rights financed from the State budget and concern only the relations between the individual and the state institutions, the state. In this context, the second paragraph of Article 10 of the bill, which refers to the use of these rights in other areas of life, is very vaguely defined. It would therefore be more appropriate to define this paragraph more precisely and unequivocally, in cases where a deaf person has the right to use sign language and in which cases non-State institutions are also obliged to allow communication with deaf persons in sign language. In addition, we support the positions of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons and the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. We would also point to Article 25 of the bill proposing that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Persons with Disabilities and the Social Chamber of Slovenia, which is established to carry out professional tasks, should carry out the tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for persons with disabilities and patients. We propose that consideration of the draft law should be given to the above proposals of our parliamentary group for a second reading. In general, we would consider that the proposal for a law is also an incentive for legal regulation in other areas relating to the exercise of human rights and freedoms and to the principle of equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you. Members Shirca, LDS, Mr Brenčič, Mr SLS + Mr SKD and probably another representative of the Group of Members are also registered on behalf of the groups. Since it's 6:00, I'm calling off the session. I am informing the National Assembly that we will continue the meeting with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, then the 16th item and in order of order. Thank you all for your cooperation, good night.
