ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	I ask colleagues and colleagues to take their seats, as well as representatives of the government, who will join us at the beginning of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so that you can start the 8th September meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask for peace in the Chamber, and I ask everyone, both Members and Members of Parliament and Ministers, to occupy their seats. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of our colleague and colleagues: Bogomir Vnučec, Aurelio Juri, Villa Trofenik, Andrej Fabjan, Victory Jelinčič, Jelko Kacin, Dr. Miha Brejc, Anton Delak, Milan Kopusar and colleague Roman Jakič. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. We're picking up a presence at the hall. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much in the National Assembly. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 6th and 7th meetings and of the 6th and 8th extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. The records are available on the computer network, and I ask my colleagues if anyone wants a change or supplement or any other comment on the minutes? I note that there are no such comments or additions, so we will vote on the adoption of four minutes. We first vote on the minutes of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please let us vote on it. We vote on the minutes of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. There are 52 Members and Members present, 47 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. No comments were made on the minutes of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the adoption of this minutes. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 54 supported by the proposal, and one opposed it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. There were no comments to the minutes of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and we are moving on to a decision on it. We're voting. 58 colleagues and colleagues were present, 52 supported by the decision, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Finally, as there were no comments to the minutes of the 8th extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a decision on it. We're voting. There are 61 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 55 supported by this decision, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 18 September this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll talk about withdrawals first. I haven't received any motions for withdrawal so far. Someone wants a word. My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party we propose the withdrawal of the 28th point - a proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Brief justification for our proposal: Our proposal is based on the fact that this National Assembly is before the last, this is the third reading of the most important act that will work or that operates within this House. In fact, there is no free deadline for the rules of procedure of the “Small Constitution”. For the term defines our rights and the conditions of action. As we know, many parliamentary groups are dissatisfied with the proposals set out in this bill. We therefore call for a sound reflection and good relations between the political parties and between the Members we are in this national assembly, so as to allow any individual, i.e. the Member, the right to debate, to be left to him the fundamental rights arising from and for which he knew at the time of his entry into this mandate. On the other hand, it should also be left to those smallest groups of Members to maintain their power, their decision-making power and their proposals for individual legislation, as they have committed themselves to the electorate. We propose that we meet again in a normal period of time with the third reading, so that we can all take time together to reflect soberly and carefully on the issues identified in the proposal. I propose that you support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Mr Pece proposes to withdraw the 28th item from the agenda - the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the rapporteur of the labour force whether he wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. In the absence of a discussion, there is probably no need for an additional position of the applicant. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There were 72 colleagues and colleagues present, 30 supported by the proposal, 38 opposed it. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the agenda item has not received the necessary support. We are moving on to extensions or proposals to expand the agenda. I haven't received any suggestions so far. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Anyone want a word about that? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The parent body shall support the adoption of a proposal for a law by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. Comrade Visjak, colleague of Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the amendment of the Public Finance Act is a matter of major systemic change, as well as important decisions on the future of public finance planning and, of course, the adoption of the budget in the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that this law must be discussed in depth, both in terms of expertise and in terms of political aspects, and therefore we propose a normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of New Slovenia, I would like to say that we want the government or the coalition to end the practice, the handiwork, which can be very harmful for our parliamentary work and for the country in general. We note that it has become extraordinary on a regular basis, but extremely regular. Thus, 13 laws were adopted following a regular procedure this year, following a rapid 33 and a reduced 23. It's a data inversion, given how we've made up our minds in the past. We are particularly concerned about this, and we are also opposed to the fact that the government itself is instituting an emergency situation by refusing to come with important laws in time and then by means of a policy of time distress in quick or accelerated decision-making. Most of the laws, as we have seen, which have been proposed in a quick or short-term manner, do not undergo a critical shock according to the criteria of emergency or some special situation, but it has simply become an habit, including the abuse of rules of procedure, government fraud and the abuse of rules of procedure. And we don't know how we're gonna decide if anything extraordinary really happens. That'll probably follow the regular procedure. We in principle oppose this practice continuing. We are in favour of the fact that if the government sees this need, it really uses this institution, which allows it to operate in the National Assembly for those laws, for which it is really necessary, and otherwise does not trust us with such laws, where there is no need for justification or reasons. Therefore, I propose, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, that this, as well as all laws that do not have speed, the extraordinaryity of the justification procedure, be done in accordance with the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. The following would like to give my position on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	We believe in transparency in the Slovenian National Party. We would also like to believe in the long term of Slovenian legislation. But unfortunately, under the existing government recipe and some guarantee of the long-termness of Slovenian legislation, from which all of us actually live, is not. We are convinced that it is under the control of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that we are destroying or destroying the Institute, say, a rapid procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall state the reasons. All too often, however, and even at today’s session during the review of the agenda, it is likely that a number of laws appear under the fast law. However, so that we do not advertise, at least on behalf of the parliamentary group, at each occasion of this law, we will give support, where we really see the justification for the swift procedure, to the swift procedure only under point 27 - a proposal for a law providing the means to remedy the effects of drought, cold and hailstorm. We will not give this support in the other proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to present its views on the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act by a rapid procedure? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want to rule the word now? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 45 opened them. 26 opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending the Tax Service Act for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. He wants to base the proposal on a government representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] Emissary groups? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 48 supported them. 21 opposed him. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Is this a proposal to be justified by a government representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body has not been identified until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? A colleague of mags. Vizjak and his colleague, Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. It is precisely because of the same arguments that I have put forward earlier, and with this argument that the mother labour body has not yet been defined before the law, that we cannot deal with the important change that this amendment to the law on gambling under the fast procedure. We therefore propose a normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you. In support of the speed of the procedure when adopting this law, we read a significant explanation or justification. Why not? I'll tell you later. I quote: "Despite the relatively short period since the entry into force of the gambling law, the need for some amendments and additions to the vague formulations of individual provisions soon appeared. In particular, these shortcomings have proved to be in the field of tailoring special gambling in outdoor gaming machines and in the field of control, which has often been under unnecessary pressure. The current situation should therefore be regulated by a precise legal formulation of the conditions." Ladies and gentlemen, which government acted in 1995 or who was determined at that time to have prepared these things, and how it took so long - so this is a more important question - that it was discovered or found soon, it says that the shortcomings are why it took six years for the government to see that something must be done and why it is now in such a hurry. So, I would like to ask, even if the representative of the Government did not wish to explain what the urgency of the situation is and what this proposal has to do for a rapid procedure of any kind with the regulation of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to hear this because I cannot understand any reason for the emergency and the speed of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Is there any other group that would like to explain its position? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite the Secretary of State, Mr Končan, to clarify the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Member of the Commission, this is, of course, the case of the Constitutional Court, which has met some of the demands of the complainants, particularly some of the gaming salons which have addressed a complaint to the Court concerning the constitutional principle, i.e. the distinction between the individual casinos, the large, and the gaming salons. That is why we were forced to prepare very quickly for the amendment of the legislation, and we also tried to make a somewhat different arrangement in the substantive work, including in view of the current burden of certain concession fees, in some small part in order to make this activity fully operational, and in relation to the changes in the Italian legislation that is being prepared, so that our casinos would not in fact lose this battle in a competitive fight with the casinos that appear in our neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, following a rapid procedure. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 50 of them supported by the proposal, 23 of them opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on State administration for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, to remind my colleagues of what our justification was. In fact, in the legislative process, there are four laws in this area, in the field of public administration or state administration. One point of view was that, in fact, all four laws should be treated in parallel, since Members actually get the whole picture, otherwise we grind and crush each stone in this mosaic separately. That's one. Secondly, it is a system law that is still important if we want to change our state administration for the better, and therefore, of course, it was the majority to deal with it on a regular basis, like other laws in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you, Comrade Lavrinz. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, on behalf of the Group of Members, please? [[...]] My friend Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that this government or its coalition, as well as this National Assembly, will not be doing any service on the way to the European Union if it comes, in particular, with a fact or even an argument for the swift adoption of this very important law or set of legislation. The successive governments under the same Prime Minister in a few mandates did not actually want to take any serious steps here. There has been a change in the Bajuk government, which has drawn up the package, and today there is a proposal here that we should do something in a quick process that was not possible in a few mandates. I think it will be a very bad trip for us if we rush here or even if the ruling coalition wants to do things very quickly, perhaps even in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, which will take the word so-called elected representatives of the people or very much limit them in this, and we will suddenly have one more law and we will be able to praise that we have made progress. However, the word that the delegation from Brussels is increasingly and increasingly stressing is implementation, is the functioning of laws and we would like to see that all of this is so tied, committed and also accepted that it will drink water after it is accepted that there is no such thing as the law on gambling, where the next day has been the criticism that legal formulations are unclear. So, we place a lot of emphasis on the heart, New Slovenia, that the government will consider this, that it also listens to the parliamentary committee on this subject and leads the matter in a very systematic, very orderly and quality manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I, Mr President, wanted to speak on my behalf, so I apologize, I will give my explanation to the vote at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Yeah, you can't do that on your own. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? I ask if the government wishes to further explain its position. [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Vote explanation, mate, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself voted in favour of the speedy procedure of this law in the home labour body, with one goal: that this country will once again have an effective public or state administration, if you will. I am also convinced that those substantive uncertainties that we have discussed, even if the law were fast - moving, could be settled. I will therefore vote in favour of the speedy procedure when voting on my behalf as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Good. We're moving on to decision-making. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	In explanation of vote, I would like to say another reason why I will not support the swift procedure. Sometimes the position of the secretariat for legislation in this house has magical and unsuspecting power. In this case, the government obviously does not want to listen to or accept the opinions of the secretariat for legislation and there is obviously a double game here. So another argument is to get this into a regular and orderly procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	I apologize to the National Assembly for allowing my colleague Barovic and his colleague Peterle to explain his vote; I should not have given this right under the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the National Assembly to understand. We are moving on to a decision to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 75 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 4 were in, 66 were against. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 66.]] I note that the assembly of the proposal for the adoption of that law was not adopted quickly and will therefore treat it as a first-reading bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a feed law for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body has not been identified until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] He's a representative of the government. [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present at the Chamber. 31 supported the proposal, 26 opposed it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of first-signed Aloise Sokos tabled a proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and hailstorms in 2001. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the representative of the motioners want a word? [[He does.]] Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think that this is possibly true on this agenda, as the Slovenian National Party's Group has said, the only law that deserves to be adopted in a swift manner. It is an intervention law that is intended to ensure and help all who have been affected by this year’s natural grips to make it a drought, a cold, and a flood of storms to help these people in some way. On this occasion, I would also like to say that perhaps this law is not only to be seen in the light of aid to affected farmers, because agriculture is linked to many jobs both in the processing - food industry and in the machinery industry. And since we have witnessed the second consecutive drought since 2000, it is also said this year, in 2001, I call on you and ask you to support this proposal and to accept this proposal quickly, because the golden Slovenian rule says that those who quickly do so will twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Before we proceed with the work of the assembly, I will ask for all the attention necessary. Just like you and me, in order to follow the debate, we need peace in the hall. We're the only ones who can guarantee that. And I'm asking you for this kindness. The mother's working body has not been identified until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. I'm asking the representative of the secretariat, does he want a word? Would you like a representative of the government? Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. There is no doubt that Member Sok or the Group of Members has shown the necessary concern in dealing with the consequences of this basic accident. However, the fact is that the government reacted without delay and, of course, with great care and considerable professional justification, prepared its law, which is, of course, incorporated into the parliamentary procedure, but according to the rules of the National Assembly, there is no way to deal with it until the law with the first-signed Member Soko has been completed. However, the government law is called something else. It is a proposal for a state aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms with the rate of agriculture in 2001. This bill provides for slightly different mechanisms than you have or have been accustomed to. It provides for respect for geomorphological data across Slovenia. It provides for respect for the status of the farmer. It foresees taking account of a number of other things, which, of course, have not been included in any of the texts of the previous similar laws and, of course, this is not included in the proposal for a law as proposed by Mr Sok. The government therefore opposes the proposal of the law, as proposed by Mr Sok, for substantive reasons and proposes its proposal for a law. Mr Sok even promised to examine whether he would not withdraw his law from the procedure in order to give room to the government's proposal for a law. Apparently, he didn't make that decision. So that I, on behalf of the government now cannot say otherwise than that, of course, we continue not to support, for substantive reasons, the proposal of the law, as put forward by Member Sok, we do not support, of course, a rapid procedure, unless we support the content and continue to propose our law. If the National Assembly decided, however, to consider the draft law, as proposed by Mr Sok, there would be nothing left for the government but to reshape or propose a different content of the law with amendments to everything, from the title and the first to the last article. That's theoretically possible, but I don't think it's best if I have this reservation. Because we are in some sort of time distress - I believe that everyone would like to help as soon as possible or to try to anticipate a framework for dealing with the consequences of this year's elementary disaster - I am sure that you will, of course, follow your best conscience. It would be best for the government not to have this law in place. But as I said before, this moment cannot be affected, for Member Sok insists on reading the text as it is and which, as I have already said, the government does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Secretary Digger. Comrade Sok, would you like a word on behalf of the parliamentary group or as a motioner? My friend Peterle's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In this case, of course, it is an extraordinary matter and for extraordinary needs and long-lasting needs due to drought. In this case, we'll back this up quickly. It just happened that the government came three weeks later with its proposal, which we have not yet seen, and, of course, it was also unable to compete within the same procedure. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to prevent delays from taking place because this law cannot be on the agenda now and it would be unusual for the proposer, whom the New Slovenia Group supports in such a situation when he has not even been able to get to know the law, to deviate from his quality solution. The law is written in high quality and solves what needs to be solved with appropriate instruments. It is also important that such a law or this law has received a very positive response from affected farmers, by the Council of State and the Chamber of Agriculture. We do not find this irrelevant and positive in the performance of Minister Kopač that he also sees the theoretical possibility. I'd rather see if I could see the practical possibility of a good law being improved by good government amendments. I advise that this is done without the law being broken and a month or two later the government law is being considered. But since the minister said that the government sees things slightly differently - if it really is just a little different, then amendments will not be difficult to solve this difficult problem. We therefore support this to be classified and that it follows a rapid procedure and that the government will do its best to improve this, otherwise it is already a good proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thanks, buddy Peterle. My friend Anderlich wants to do it on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	The LDS Group will support the speedy process, but not because of what Mr Sok and Mr Peterle said, but because we know that at a point like drought and natural disasters, it does not compete between political parties, which will, as soon as possible, even pass a law that has already been passed, and this is a prescribed last year's law, without taking into account the real circumstances that occurred after the drought of 2001, but things are copied in 2000, with other numbers. And we're not going to land in any way between political parties in the way that you, you're not for people, we're the only ones for people, and you're not going to give because you're Jews or anything. This isn't fair and it's not fair. Mr Sok, in Radgona, at the Radgona Fair, is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Kramberger has convened him, has agreed with the government on everything that needs to be done in order to come up with quality solutions. You didn't respect this deal - I didn't expect you to. There it was agreed that the government must assess what really happened, and the Commission carried out this work on the ground around 15 September. And since you're all coming out of the field like I am and because you're mayors among you, you know that the municipal commissions have until, I think, October 20th task of making censuses to make a real and accurate assessment of the damage that's caused. It is not right for Slovenian taxpayers, including farmers and, of course, all those who are affected, as well as those who are not farmers, to be affected and to enforce, as each year, compensation for drought, hail and various other things, it is not right that over the fingernails, through the fingernails or in any other way we assess, but that aid must be defined on a legal basis and must be defined in the form, in the manner and in the extent that the damage was indeed caused, not over the finger. And we will support the speedy process, but we will do everything we can to ensure that the law is quality and that we will move away from the practices of the previous years, when it also happened in this national assembly, that, for example, we paid the frost in June, July, August, September, and the harvest in September was better than ever. So it would be right and right not to compete here, who is more for some solidarity, some help. But I had to say this because I hear from day to day, if they don't want to give, they're cheap, they're the ones who don't support this sector, we're the ones who would give if, of course, we had this power. In the end, what kind of marriage will there be, and I hope that it will contain everything that a marriage like this has to contain. We'll support a quick procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Kolga Podobnik wants the Slovenian People's Party on behalf of the SLS+SKD Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not dispute in the basic position, because the rules of procedure do not allow me to do so. The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal to adopt the law proposed by its fellow Member, Sok, by means of a rapid procedure. We are in a situation where we need to find all the ways to find, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the possibility that a good law will be adopted as soon as possible by the National Assembly. Here I would like to commend my fellow Member, Mag. Kramberger, who is not native, responded first, and is also chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and in Gornja Radgoni convened a working body that successfully manages him. I firmly believe that this reference to this working body was also a situation on the basis of which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	I have to interrupt you, Comrade Podobnik. I think you deserve, like everyone else, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I believe that it was at that time that his call reduced the political charge that triggered this issue. Last but not least, I was in this session as an alternate member. It was the agreement and decision of the committee to draw up a proposal for a law by September. And she did. In this case, the government was correct. In our opinion, it has drawn up a good law and now we have only the opportunity to upgrade the law proposed by Ambassador Sok through the amendment form. Therefore, our support will be for a swift procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, did you want a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The SDS Group will also support the quick procedure of the law tabled by colleague Sok concerning the issue of compensation for drought. It's an extremely important subject. We know that this year's drought has been catastrophic and that in some parts of Slovenia it has caused farmers such damage that without rapid action and prompt compensation their resuscitation of autumn and second year will actually cease, so we think it is extremely important. At the same time, in fact, we welcome the announced practice of others to move away from the practice of the previous years when the law was adopted and then not implemented. I am also correcting the Minister's word that they will change some articles to make the marriage better, because it is certainly a significant departure from the previous position that the Law on Reparation of Drought Damage will not be met at all. At the same time, it is an improvement because we have always witnessed the government's begging for such intervention laws so far to wait for a system law that has not been in place for five years. This is why we actually support this law, and we also urge all parties not to compete, but to show due understanding of all the problems of this year's drought. And to actually adopt a good, improved law that will help Slovenian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Well, we are also in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats in favour of a rapid procedure in the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and stormy weather in 2001, which was put into the procedure by Mr Sok, a fellow Member of Parliament. Of course, we would also like to add that, with this serious problem that has occurred in Slovenia, the government has also responded adequately to the implementation of the 2000 law and has also been particularly deeply involved in the drafting of a law to remedy these consequences in 2001. In the Group of Members, we believe that it would be more correct for the Government to actually carry out the whole process, even in accordance with all the decisions already made by the predecessors, but the fact is that we may be spending too much time at this very moment because of these procedural complications. And of course we'd rather see that we have a government proposal here today, because the procedure would be simpler and we argue and we think about it being faster. However, let us hope that consensus will be large enough for all to make the law a real solution to the effects of drought and storm and that it will also, of course, reach all those who also need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain more. At the same time, as the first-signed proposer, I also have to respond to some of the findings. So it's obvious to me to copy, but respected colleagues, when I look at the laws with which this has been resolved over the past years, I have to warn you that all of them were made more or less in the same pattern, say, ask yourself, from whom did you then sign Gezo Juban last year? Certainly, last year there was no cold, this year it's cold as a supplement, but last year there was that unfortunate reptile and Mangart, and so on and so on, which is not this year. As far as non-compliance is concerned. Look, the government has been tasked with preparing this matter, but apparently it has not prepared it, at least not until this proposal, which is now the subject of this hot debate, has emerged. But if we look at it, you haven't even settled all the government's obligations to last year's drought. So, at this point, who should believe in your principles? And Mr. Anderlich, no offense, if you're telling me about it, then it's the same as if a toad told me I was ugly. So it's me, I don't want to be sorry, but I'm obviously incoherent and incomprehensible with some agreements that I obviously don't know and I don't know where these deals have been. See, yesterday the Council of State supported this proposal, which we have proposed, is also supported by the Agriculture and Forestry Chamber, which has assessed the damage over and over with its experts, but not by the government, which will now assess the damage and by October 31st, and I ask you how you can assess the damage in the grass on October 31st, because you can not assess it at the moment, because it is no longer visible and the damage is enormous. Not only direct, but indirect, but there'll be more talk about it at the moment of the marriage. It's true what Minister Digač said. I have really promised that if the government comes up with a better proposal, I will withdraw my proposal. That's true and I agree with what he said, but the government hasn't prepared it. I am merely to explain, if you allow me, Comrade Anderlich, I received yesterday a draft proposal from the government law, but not from the government, but from Minister Kopač. [[...]] At the same time, I have been informed from some government representatives that a correspondence meeting will only be held today. If you believe that Minister Kopač's proposal is already a government proposal, I do not think as an opposition member. If we had this proposal in our parliamentary seats today, the New Slovenia Group would have been defined by this proposal, and there was certainly no possibility. Now, that's the option the minister ordered. If you do not consider this proposal to be a good one, even though the Council of State supports it and the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture also, then prepare and submit amendments to this law and correct it in such a way as to please you. However, I certainly hope and very much will pay attention to the debate that took place last year when this country was led by another government. That is not how you discussed and hope, and I will also prove to you that it is appropriate and that the matter is the same as it was last year. So, I expect you to do the same thing if you want to be more principled than we who have passed the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Okay, so we've exhausted the opportunity to present our views. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal that the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms be adopted in 2001 on a rapid basis. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 67 supported by such a proposal, one opposed it. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Group of Members of the First-signed Jožet Ašić tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act for consideration by the assembly. He suggests to the assembly that he accept it quickly. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do government representatives want a word? Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We decide on the proposal of the Group of Members, with the first-signed colleague of Ašić. 69 of us were present, 27 were in favour of the proposal and 39 were in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly of the proposal for the adoption of that law was not adopted quickly and will therefore treat it as a first-reading bill. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a shorter procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I ask whether they wish to clarify the views of the representatives of the groups of Members. [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote. 70 colleagues and colleagues are present. 62 were in favour, 1 opposed to the proposal. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. So I propose today's agenda session, as you have received it with reference and with the amendments adopted. We are voting on this. Objection, Comrade Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	I don't think we voted on a reduced procedure in closing the property.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	[[The voices in the background.]] Just a minute. The point has been moved. There were 70 colleagues and colleagues present at the hall. 52 were in favour, 6 were against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the agenda for the 8th meeting of the assembly has been adopted. A little notice. My friend Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our practice over the last two years, priority has been given to the treatment of so-called European laws, according to the Government's view and in our view necessary for our entry into the European Union. I regret that this will was no longer on this agenda by the applicants and we have a quarter of the so-called European laws, which are at 6th, 7th, 10th, 12, 22, 23rd, 24, 25th and 26th. If I were to break the established practice with which we have also made an argument before our partners in the European Union, I think that our credibility would at least be slightly improved. Therefore, I propose that this legislation, in accordance with current practice and also our formal decision, not only with the European Affairs Commission, be listed immediately as the first item of the agenda, is referred to as questions and initiatives of Members and Members, who are also, after some agreement, at the beginning of each meeting, in order, as follows in the agenda. If we were already talking about some competition, then we would see a greater need for the drought law to be dealt with at the outset, I say, in short. So, I propose that this so-called European legislation be placed in a place where it has normally been placed in our agendas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Comrade Peterle, this is a procedural proposal that we will decide otherwise if you insist on it, but I would like to give you an explanation. We have introduced into the college a practice whereby we do not just set agenda items, but also discuss the priorities of treatment, for a number of reasons. This priority has been agreed above all on the fact that the National Assembly will soon face the draft budget. Therefore, some points are placed on the agenda. Another explanation that is important for your debate is that, to the extent that we can decide on it, we fully understand the priorities of the European Union. Therefore, the package of laws in this area is immediately for laws that allow normal procedure to continue the process of adopting the law on the budget. I invite you, Comrade Peterle, to accept my explanation. The leaders of the parliamentary groups are present at the College meetings, and this is the last time we have agreed. My friend Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept your polite request to me because I would also come into great difficulty in communicating with our partners in the institutions of the European Union. Wherever we come and whenever we talk about how we decide to harmonise legislation when we know that it is always a priority, it is said at the very beginning of the meetings of the national assembly, this so-called European legislation. The additional fact that we speak in favour of not changing practice is that it is quite obvious that there is a delay in preparing these proposals by the government. There'll be a more detailed word for that somewhere else. We can't afford to get on our knees here, and we don't even think this block is in a cell because it's 12. - Twenty-two. 10 agenda items aimed at other purposes, not addressing the so-called European legislation. I insist on the proposal, and I also expect support, and it will be easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Okay. I am putting your proposal to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Peterle proposes that a package of laws marked "European Union" should come immediately after the first item of the agenda, i.e. questions and initiatives by Members and Members. This is a proposal I am putting to the vote. Please, we're voting. 63 colleagues and colleagues attended, 23 supported, 33 opposed. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 33.]] The procedural proposal has not been adopted. Comrade Barovic, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In favour of a slightly faster part of the National Assembly, I would procedurally suggest that the National Assembly, after the end of the 3rd point, move to the consideration of points 14 to 21, these are in particular the proposals of ratification laws, which usually do not require much discussion and are usually adopted quickly or not adopted. I think that this 35 points of the agenda would be quite useful to reduce, because I believe that by the 3rd next month as agreed, this national assembly will not be able to end this meeting in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	My colleague Barovic, I will also put your procedural proposal to the vote, but with the emphasis of two things. First of all, we talked about this in college, that it was achieved, so that there was some majority support for such a decision that, with such a agenda in no way in the tradition we have now, we do not violate and I suggest that it remains so, but of course I must put your procedural proposal to the vote. You are therefore proposing that the agenda items proposing the adoption of international treaty ratification laws should be classified as point 1. I put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. 20 supported them, 44 opposed them. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. A case-by-case proposal is also made by colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Given the broad agenda and the fact that item 27 - this is the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and stormy weather in 2001 - is placed in the 27th place and because the session, as I am aware, will last until Wednesday, I propose procedurally that this law be dealt with within this time limit. I do not propose any point, but I propose that either Friday or Tuesday or Wednesday - mainly that this law be discussed at this part of the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Well, first of all, before you have to make a precise proposal, I must also remind you that we have discussed this and that we have agreed on the priority and that your colleague or representative of your Group has also agreed with such a proposal. Our ambition is, of course, that we will exhaust the agenda points as far as we can, we will also do so. Now, if you want and insist on a procedural proposal, you need to specify it more precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	If not, I would suggest that we then set Wednesday next week for the government to have sufficient time to submit any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	So, a procedural proposal has been made. I propose to the National Assembly that it be decided. My colleague Sok suggests that we place a bill on Wednesday at 10 a.m., which deals with the remediation of the effects of drought. I put such a proposal to the vote. I ask that we vote on this proposal of a procedural nature. There are 63 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 32 in favor and 30 in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 30.]] I note, therefore, that we have taken a decision by which the National Assembly will discuss this item no later than Wednesday next week. In addition, I would like to inform you that at the College mentioned earlier, we have agreed that the point concerning the adoption of the Rules of Procedure will be dealt with on Thursday at 10. Hours, and the Ombudsman's report is scheduled to be Tuesday at 10 a.m. Friday, Sorry, Friday at 10 p.m. So, Thursday at 10 a.m. — Rules of Procedure; Friday at 10 a.m. the Ombudsman’s report is foreseen. Thus, we have exhausted all the necessary decisions necessary to continue with the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I propose that we start at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes with questions and initiatives from the Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	I ask colleagues and colleagues to take their seats in the Chamber, as well as ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to be able to move on to the 1st item of the agenda, this is on questions and initiatives from Members and Members. Please take your seats. Before we go to point one, we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. If a fellow Member or a fellow Member is not around you, but has a card filed, please take his card out of the voting machine so that we can establish a credible presence in the Chamber. Please do this. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. In this way, I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may proceed with the 8th meeting, with 1. POINT OF THE DAY, WITH QUESTIONS AND INSTRUMENTS OF THE BULGARIATS AND THE POSITIONS. Before we move on to this point, some warnings related to this agenda item. Let me inform you that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, referred to the leadership of the National Assembly in yesterday's short letter and asked Members and Members to understand that he is unable to attend the opening of this point today because of other urgent matters and to answer, as usual and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first three questions of the opposition colleagues. He also suggested answering these three questions next Tuesday. Today, at 1300 hours, we met briefly with the leaders of all the parliamentary groups and accepted this apology with an understanding of knowledge, while also adopting the proposal that the Prime Minister answer the first three questions next week on Tuesday. Otherwise, all other issues addressed to government representatives, namely ministers and ministers, will be dealt with today, as agreed with by this 8th meeting of the National Assembly. The order of questions and initiatives shall be laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure. The first three questions addressed to the Prime Minister will therefore be raised next Tuesday. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question referred must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clearly visible. However, the oral question or initiative should not last more than three minutes. Ministers or ministers, and representatives of the government, I ask that their response does not normally last more than 10 minutes. It may also be to ask a supplementary question. This issue must not last more than two minutes. We'll be asking questions in order, just like we got them with our applications. First of all, the first question will be raised by fellow Member Peter Levič of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. Question of the Ministry of the Interior. Over the past months, the professional and wider Slovenian public have been talking a lot about the problems of political parties associated with their financing, particularly foreign funding. On the one hand, arguments have been put forward which advocate the fact that, under the applicable law on financing political parties, any financing from abroad is inadmissible. So indirectly, as well as through various financial outflows. In the meantime, the opposite side defended the view that the law was lifeless and that it should be amended or corrected. I wonder what you've done in this particular area? Have you dealt with controversial problems? What are your findings and what, as the ministry responsible for this area, do you suggest? Have you possibly prepared any proposals for amending this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you so much for asking me that question. Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you, honourable Mr. Levich. We have already dealt with this problem, and we have already discussed this preliminaryly at the level of the coalition parties as well, and we have taken a little more time to have a more thorough discussion and a concerted presentation or for concrete proposals in this direction; so that the proposal is being considered and in short, we have agreed on a deadline of about 14 days, and we should also adopt a solution or a proposal to what we will do in this direction. However, we are aware of the problem and have also considered exactly what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. There's no further question. Colleague Silva Montenegro has a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. All Members and Ministers, representatives of the government, are warmly welcomed. Today I will ask the Minister for Education, Culture, Sport and Science; this is our long-standing debate, which continues from the budget period. At that time, some promises were made regarding amendments to the Law on the Construction of the National University Library. The last days have also been held discussions around the 2002 budget, 2003. Unfortunately, from the means of public information, as well as from those numbers and materials that we Members had at our disposal, we could not or could not understand that the planned funds for the construction of the National University Library were. I wonder if you've prepared amendments to the law on the construction of the Nuk. If you are: when do you intend to put it into procedure, given that there is no such law in the forecast for the October and November sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Chokov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montenegro, for that question. I think I was just expecting this issue to come back to the budget. In fact, I can tell all Members what the situation is, because I have also promised to do certain things that have been imposed on me in this place. We prepared a new law on the construction of the university library in Ljubljana and sent it in coordination with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation. We have received some comments from the Ministry of Culture, but they have not supported the exact concept of this law that we have proposed to the Government, and it is, of course, still in coordination with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation. Perhaps you would just point out what is in this marriage, so that it would be better explained. We are aware of the lack of respect for the first law that expired in 1998 when this library was to be built. We were also aware under the new legislation that this could not only be a university library and that it was only a working name, so we are proposing a new name: the National and University Library in Ljubljana, which would have a slightly broader mission, because, in agreement with both universities, it is not exactly the biggest support that this would be just a university library. Of course, the university is in great distress, both the Central Technical Library and the National University Library, are doing this work for the university. However, they believe that this must be an object of national importance and that it must be a national and university library. We have also prepared the basis for how in the new law - either the distribution of funds or the carrying of this project. We believe that the carry-on of this project cannot be expressed not only to one ministry and not only to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but at least to the Ministry of Culture; and this is what we have proposed. We have also proposed that a special body be set up to ensure that this project is implemented, as well as planned funds, which would now amount to 13 billion 680 million at the March 2001 prices. The law defines all substantive changes and innovations, and we find that this is a national project and that it must come to Parliament. We expect both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to examine the situation. However, we believe that we are not departing from the first law at the starting points, but that is how it has grown in these years and the need for a new law to enter parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please, colleague nigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you have already prepared a draft amendment and a supplement to this law and now, given that the topic is of such importance and national character, it is at the initiative of the government, the Ministry of Finance, to tell how and what, with its actions and planning. So perhaps the question can now only be addressed to Mr Rope and his ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You want Minister Rop? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Dear Member! As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, this will, within the framework of the budget and budgetary options, guarantee the duties and obligations to be imposed on the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it all depends on what kind of budget will eventually be adopted in the National Assembly and what the final budget cut will be, based on the discussions we had when we cut the budget through ministries, will be prepared and will then be sent by the government in final form to the National Assembly. So, as far as priority is concerned in the individual segments within the ministries, the Ministry of Finance cannot, of course, set these priorities, nor does it want to take these powers into account. However, you will be able to discuss this at the time of the budget when it will be very clear in the National Assembly and, of course, what such a project means and, of course, which other projects should be abandoned. Thus, Madam honourable Member, you will undoubtedly be actively involved in the debate, in the discussion and of course also in the final decisions, particularly in this project, which is undoubtedly important. However, it is of course extremely extensive and, in so far as this is a priority, we will have to agree together on which projects it will not possibly be if this project goes forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your explanations, Minister Rop. The next question will be raised by colleague Franci Rokavec. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. My parliamentary question concerns the government as a whole, and, of course, it is due to the events that took place in LBS in the subsidiary of Nova Ljubljanska Banka in New York and, of course, to the question of the level of meetings that was present in the exercise of the supervisory role of members of the supervisory boards in companies. In fact, I would like to know if, after this type of event and the irregularities identified, the Minister's Councillor, Mr Gabrovec, is still able to perform his duties. Secondly: whether the Government will take any concrete measures to ensure adequate internal control in the management of the supervisory role or the management of state-owned undertakings or companies. Indeed, it has also been found that this control - or internal control and the flow of information - is very lacking. It would probably also be very important to find out why there is also a way of running or appointing members of the supervisory councils - especially the logic of representing government officials rather than representing this role of distinguished experts, because it would also prevent the fear that in some way the state would not want to let its influence in the economy out of its hands as quickly as possible. These are, in particular, the main questions that have been raised mainly in all these dilemmas that I have already raised in the first place. I think that this question needs to be answered in particular from the following point of view: whether the state really wants to withdraw from politics as quickly as possible from the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much, buddy Rokavec for the question. Minister Rob wants to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	As regards the business topic of the New Ljubljana Bank, LBS and, of course, privatisation issues, you are probably aware that this has been discussed longer on the Committee or on the Committee for Budgetary Control. It is probably worth noting that we have also provided by the government, including in agreement with the Bank of Slovenia, that a special report on the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank and LBS and subsidiaries will be prepared, in which Members, interested working bodies and the Home Committee will be very clear about everything that has been going on in this case in recent years; in short, everything that has been discussed in the framework of the Supervisory Council and everything that has been taken as measures. In particular, it is very important that you all learn together everything Banka Slovenije has already done in this case - as a supervisory institution - already done. As you know, we have also proposed that a special meeting of the committee - whether it will be a commission or a committee - be it not my responsibility - to invite all those who were responsible and responsible at the time when the events took place, i.e. the competent minister of finance at the time, then the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the Administration and some members of the Supervisory Board, and there we will be able to explain all the details from the first hand, on the basis of a report that will be prepared; you will get clarifications and we will be able to speak directly about the possible responsibility of anyone already. I think this is the best way to get, on the basis of the arguments, the Members, all the necessary information on how to manage, dispose of and deal with state resources, or with the capital of the State and the assets of the New Ljubljana Bank. As for experts in the supervisory board, we can send you the names of these experts. I think it would be difficult to say that those in the supervisory world are not experts; there are many prominent experts among them, but we can send you these names in writing so that you can see for yourself who are now new in the supervisory world. As far as the meetings are concerned, this question has already been raised and we have promised a written answer and this written answer has also been sent to the National Assembly - I think to the President of the National Assembly. The annex to the answer to this question gives the amounts of meetings or awards in all the supervisory councils of the daughters of the New Ljubljana Bank and, of course, the number of members, so that they can be easily calculated as to the amounts you are asking. And I think you can get to those amounts. It is true, however, that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has marked this information as a business secret and in this respect we have also forwarded it further to the National Assembly and it is - I think it was with the President of the National Assembly and probably also gave Ambassador Bajuk to look at this answer. And there is absolutely no reason for this information to be available to anyone who is interested. In addition, they have been published several times in the media. However, as regards the role of the country and the policy in these state-owned enterprises, I can assure you that our intention is very clear to withdraw from the banks, from the companies. I would say that these cases, including discussions and all that is happening now, show how bad it is when politics interferes with the economy. However, when it interferes, it is right that we come to the end, that we are transparent and that we clarify all the facts - and in this case, I assure you that these facts will also be adequately clarified and that all the data will be found. But I can assure you, of course, that we will do everything in our power to make privatisation possible in the case of banks and other state-owned enterprises, and that we will also withdraw as a policy from the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Minister Rop. Would you like to ask an additional question? Comrade Rockhead, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I thank you for part of the answer to the questions I have asked the Minister, Mr Rope. Nevertheless, I did not find the answer to one important question: what concrete measures will the government take to effectively control the internal governance or flow of information from its members to the supervisory boards of economic companies? I think that this is one of the major shortcomings that occurred in the cases mentioned above, that the state did not know about what was happening in their companies, or did not want to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	Minister Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	In companies operating on a market which are companies, the State may operate only and exclusively in accordance with the Company Act. This means that all those covering individual areas and are responsible for each area are responsible for obtaining information from a member of the Supervisory Boards in specific areas and that they also respond appropriately in the event of irregularities and irregularities identified. In the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and in the case of this daughter, the supervisory right was exercised by the administration and the mother over the daughter and, of course, she also took certain measures in this regard. In short, the Administration and the Administration will also explain this. However, through the members of the Supervisory Board, the State has also been informed of the problems, and the Supervisory Board has also taken decisions in this regard and all decisions two years ago, as they have been, we will inform you from the outset, or I will inform you of any further decisions. I can tell you that there will be a control council of 10. In October, he addressed this very topic, which is now under discussion and, of course, will also take appropriate positions and possible action. We'll introduce you to this at the board meeting as she runs. So that in this case, of course, we reacted, asked the Supervisory Board to immediately hold a discussion, identify possible irregularities and react. As you know, the new Supervisory Board has been operating for several months and will, of course, deal with it now. According to the information we have obtained, the previous Supervisory Board has repeatedly addressed the topic and the issue of LBS and has also adopted conclusions in this regard. And now we're gonna look for years ago. The theme is drawn years ago to what has been concluded at individual meetings of the Governing Council. Of course, all of this speaks mainly of the fact that politics as such cannot control the completeness of everything that is happening in individual companies and that it is very difficult to do so very well. And that's why he has to back off. That is why it must not, in my opinion, be as concerned with the economy as possible, but must deal with what it is responsible for: the governance of the country, the management of those things that we all deal with here every day and again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister Rop. Mrs. Maria Possonec has a question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. All present and welcome. I ask the Ministry of Transport when the trucks in north-eastern Slovenia will take the train. It was very difficult for us to expect a railway connection with Hungary, hoping that there would be a smaller crowd on the Pomura and Styria roads. I have some other proposals and initiatives for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Food. I would warn the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food about wine growing in Prekmurje. The cellars are full of wine from last year and the purchase of this year's grapes is not yet guaranteed. There is talk of a very low purchase price, and farmers have begun mass cutting vines. I believe that mechanisms should be found to prevent this economic damage. Another time. Small farmers in Prekmurje or Pomur are very concerned about the expected minimum of two hectares of land to obtain a subsidy. Many of them have only one hectare or less of the land, and this is how they face the problem of management each day, and in this way they will be assisted by state aid. The restructuring of agriculture needs assistance from the state, as people also need to survive in this process. One more question for the same ministry. When are they gonna start paying off the wheat? Fifth, a question for the government. A very large amount of dissatisfaction results in compulsory supplementary pension insurance for individual additional activities. Why they have to pay a flat-rate contribution of four thousand SITs on such a monthly basis on the basis of a decision on the contribution to specific insurance cases - Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No 1 and 01 - including persons engaged in the activity of rural tourism. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. Dr. Gantar asked for the floor. You have the floor, Minister. Mrs. Possonec, can you turn it off? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Ambassador Pozsonchev. Of course, I am answering as a minister who, under the authority of the Prime Minister, directs and directs the work of the Ministry in the absence of Minister Presecnik and would like to respond as follows. The aim of the transport policy, both adopted and of course prepared, is to shift the maximum number of goods from road to rail. In accordance with these measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly in annual budgets on items intended for the implementation of the transport policy, including in the case of combined transport of so-called transport, therefore provides significant financial resources to increase the competitiveness of this transport against road transport. This year, combined transport - just as an example - is carried out on the following routes: the Maribor-Veles route, two pairs of trains per day, the bus traffic is 54%; then on the bridge-Salzburg route, three pairs of trains per day, 58% busy trains; and Maribor-Koper, one pair of trains per day, occupied trains 62%. The labour volume or combined transport segment increases by about 5% annually. On a concrete question, when will part of this transport - of course not entirely, but still - cross the tracks in northeastern Slovenia, I can say that there are talks between railway administrations or arrangements for the introduction of combined trains on the path between Padova, Ljubljana and Budapest. According to the information I have, the combined transport on this route is expected to begin within a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Three questions were asked here. When will be the payment of wheat - I hope that as soon as possible, but this is not dependent on the country, because the country is not a buyer of wheat, but as is the case with the market economy - in this case there are grain processing establishments; and we hope that they will do so in accordance with the contract, as farmers - or on their behalf of the cooperative - have signed with these companies. That means: I hope so as soon as possible. But, of course, here again, it must be pointed out that in the market economy, not only does the state not fix prices, except for intervention prices and intervention conditions, but it is also not a buyer, because the wheat country, except for the possible strategic stocks, has nothing to do with itself. It is true, however, that the State pays direct payments or, if you want, subsidies or compensations - whatever they are called. In the case of wheat, that's 54,000 tolars per hectare. However, these payments will be paid as planned, approximately 30 per cent, together with other compensatory payments in the second half of October, 40 per cent in November and the remainder in December. To be properly understood, I am talking about 63,000 applications sent by farmers in Slovenia to the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, including wheat payments, the so-called compensation payments per hectare. And to be clear: 30 percent means 30 percent of the deposits were due in October, 40 in November, and the remainder in December. This is so agreed, and this is also the financial plan in terms of liquidity resources in line with the processing of agency deposits. As for small farmers in Prekmurje or anywhere in Slovenia. This year's terms and conditions are valid and have been in force since last year. This means: somehow one hectare of total agricultural land is a condition that someone can apply for a subsidy or for any form of compensatory or direct payments, whether we are talking about an ECO-0, or additional payments for an area with limited factors, or payments for an agri-environmental programme. And within this, for example, it can apply for wheat payments, if it has at least 0.3 hectares of land in the structure of agricultural land. In 2002, we are thinking that the lower limit of agricultural land from which the beneficiaries may be beneficiaries for payment would raise slightly upwards. We are thinking about raising this limit from 1 to 1.5 hectares. This means that 2 hectares would not be what the lower limit would be. I warn, however, that there is a mandated lower limit in the European Union, over which no one can place a lower limit, that is 3 hectares. This means that no one in the European Union can remember and say, but we have a lower limit of 4 hectares because this is considered part of the mandatory legal order. However, there is a possibility that countries will get a lower limit, and I think the lowest lower limit they have is in two Member States, one of which is Austria, and this lower limit is 1.5 hectares. In Slovenia, we have decided for this lower limit of 1 hectare so far due to poor ownership structure. However, we believe that it is very important to consider very seriously whether the continued insistence on such a low lower limit does not mean, at the same time, the slowness of the urgent structural changes that are necessary, which means slowing down. Because someone thinks: I will get a subsidy, but I would still have so much lunch; which is good, but at the same time a structural change, an increase in farms, will not happen. In short, there is not yet a final decision. We are seriously considering this and will make a decision on the basis of a thorough reflection, on the basis of professional arguments and also in cooperation with civil society, if you wish, a chamber and others. And the last question, or first question, wine growing in Prekmurje. The same is true everywhere, everywhere. The buying-in prices are unfortunately not determined by the State, but are determined by the market or by supply and demand. We have said about the market order that there are certain possibilities, such as distillation and the like. At the same time, we give the possibility that vine growers can decide to participate in integrated or biological wine-growing and thus receive an additional 60 or 120,000 toll per hectare of surcharge if they choose to do so. The main thing remains: the price is determined by the market. However, it is necessary to add that wine growers, like other producers, will have to start to organize more appropriately, to think in a way that fragmentation, which in Slovenia represents hundreds of non-organised suppliers, unrelated ones, will lead to higher purchase prices or better and more successful marketing results - of course it will not do so. Thus, winegrowers and winemakers themselves will have to organise themselves more appropriately on the market in order to be more successful on the market, like other providers of any service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you also wish, Minister Dimovski, a word in this regard? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. This is the third part of Mrs Pozsoncheva's question, namely complementary activity and insurance. Indeed, the fact is that complementary activities pose some additional risks and therefore the basic insurance does not virtually cover this. For example, if someone is employed as a programmer in the afternoon, there are certain risks, regardless of whether, say, additional time or as an additional activity, he is also engaged in rural tourism. And on the basis of these additional risks to be borne by the complementary activity, it is, of course, necessary to pay or pay a certain premium under this heading. The National Assembly also spoke about this when adopting the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 1999 and virtually unanimously adopted or united that 29 complementary activities should, of course, be further protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. My colleague Pozsonchev, you probably don't have any further questions. Next up will be my colleague Bojan Kontic. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government. I refer the question to the Ministry of Finance. In the past mandates of the National Assembly, MEPs and Members have asked several times about the financial functioning of religious communities and the tax obligations of these communities, especially the Roman Catholic Church, which is increasingly devoted to material matters and to the acquisition of property. We have always received only partial and incomplete answers by the Ministry of Finance, but we have never received competent images of the Church's tax obligations. This is not good, for there are then various claims, explanations that can also be inaccurate and weekly. So far, we have received answers that the RCC pays taxes like all other civil law personnel, that it is liable to a tax on the profits of legal persons in work relating to a profitable activity, that priests are liable to income and that almost everything is in order. Okay. Nevertheless, I am asking the Ministry of Finance the following questions. What are the rules for the material and financial operation of the RCC? Which institution is in control? Does the Church have any special status, relief or exemption in any tax policy segment in our country, and, if so, with what justification? What taxes does she pay as a person of civil law whose taxes she is already liable to? We know the government is drafting a real estate tax law. Does the Ministry foresee that this future law would also tax property in the Church? I understand that in the past, when the Church did not have its property, the state was somehow bound to help it with its activities, including tax tolerance. Now that the RDC is becoming a larger real estate owner with us, there is no need. I ask for an oral reply, if this cannot be complete at this time, and for a comprehensive written reply with a review of the current and anticipated tax obligations of the church in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thanks, buddy Contic. Which of the government's representatives will respond? Secretary of State, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much for the question, Member. There have been many questions, so we will prepare a written answer to all these questions, but not in this style, as you said before, that we have already sent you. For in this work, of course, it remains the same: in our system tax legislation there are no special statuses intended for any religious community in our country, except those expressly mentioned in the law - that is, in the law on income and in the tax on profits. Because it goes, say, to the benefit tax for grants or grants to those who carry out a particular activity [[humanitarian, religious, etc.]] Then in the Income Act, where that's possible. In the value added tax law, there is no exception to anyone, irrespective of the status of a gainful activity which is taxable under the value added tax law, so that, of course, he does not become liable if he exceeds the known legal limit of 5 million tolars in the past 12 months. In this part, we cannot prepare or prepare any other reply in terms of the future legislation we are preparing, and the value added tax law has recently been sent to the parliamentary procedure, whereas the law on corporate income tax and income tax in the coming weeks. Currently, there is one law already in interdepartmental coordination, and minor changes have been made. We also discuss these changes with representatives of religious communities. But it's basically what you said yourself. No one may have a privileged position in terms of profit-making activities, as well as certain institutions of religious communities, e.g. The various diocese economies are organised under the company law as companies with limited liability or the like and are normally liable to corporate tax. This way we will prepare this comprehensive information because you have given more questions, and in this part, as I said, we can only answer as we have already answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic has a chance to ask the government. You have the floor, Comrade Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The question of emissary to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At a consultation with the working title - organized in Maribor by my colleague Jerovška: How to defend complete centralisation, we touched on the current and worrying processes in Slovenia. 40 participants in this meeting, including members of five parliamentary groups, state councilors mayors, the University of Maribor, civil society, economy, trade unions, institutions in Maribor, we have witnessed and found that it is thus a complete centralisation that is dangerously threatening the interests of North-East Slovenia, so we have requested to speak with the Prime Minister. Today it has been 32 days, 32 days since that meeting and the desire for this meeting, and to date no one from the government has responded to our justified initiatives, but on a recent visit by the government in Maribor it has been felt by the media that the northeast part of Slovenia will be acquired in public works. This is, of course, a rejuvenation and desecration of the entire part of northeastern Slovenia for us. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: What is the concrete government-specific financial programme for the implementation of the policy of equitable regional development in accordance with the law? When the government of the Republic of Slovenia will publicly present the impact of the sale of the New Bank of Maribor in the light of the economic and political situation, the economy and the social institutions and why Nova Ljubljanska banka and the New Bank of Credit are not sold in the same proportion. Third time. Does the government respect the adopted national priority programme for the construction of motorways? Fourth time. When will the government pay last year’s drought money to farmers, and will it take into account inflation or late interest? Fifth. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how many state institutions are in or around Ljubljana and how many in the northeastern part of Slovenia or other parts of the country, including the corresponding budgetary resources and the number of employees. Six. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take an official position on Mr Kopač's insulting statement regarding the statement that there are no adequate personnel in Maribor and that this is one of the main reasons why it cannot be held in Maribor. And that's it. I ask the Minister of Information Technology whether he is already late for the law on the repayment of too much money in telecommunications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. You've asked the government a number of questions, which is why you've exceeded time. Which of the government's representatives will be the first to respond? Please. Minister Gantar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Mr. Puksic. Of course, first of all, I'm answering the "Caestrian" question, if I may say so. The priorities set out in the highway and other road construction programme have not been changed in any way. At the moment, no changes have been made and the dynamics of road construction are taking place and are taking place in line with the programme and, of course, with the budgetary possibilities of funding. In the area of highways there are some delays, they have been before and we know about them, we also know why they have been created, financial resources are not the only reason. Nevertheless, consideration of priorities will be needed in the rebalancing of the programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia in general. In the role of the Ministry, of course the Minister of Information Society, of course, I can say that we have prepared a return on investment law to study precisely at this moment, which Members and Members will certainly understand and support, the financial consequences of this law. The financial consequences of this law up to, of course, the greatest possible precision, because this is extremely important because the financial consequences are relatively large. Of course, we expect to do all the studies and all the necessary work by next week and that we will then be able to decide on a concrete version of the law and concrete solutions. Certainly, your hands are tense. I have warned myself about these hands - the tension of deadlines - in the preparation of the Telecommunications Act. I hope we can send him to Parliament as soon as possible. As soon as possible! And of course it will be accepted. However, I would point out that, for example, the adoption of a law a month earlier or a month later or even more later, if we are already at it, there will be no impact on the rights of those who are supposed to receive funds, nor on the obligations of the State, because the law will have to - and I can say this now - necessarily have to tie the payment of investments to the privatisation of Telekom. This, however, is due to the situation that has already been relatively unfavourable in the telecommunications market, and in recent events at all, of course it will not happen as quickly as originally planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much for this explanation, Minister Gantar. Which of the government's representatives will continue? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	Dear Members and Members, Mr Puksic! In the requests addressed to the government, you also opened two questions regarding the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Allow me to inform you and your colleagues, of course, of the answer to the question raised as Chairman of the Privatisation Commission of the New Bank of Maribor. On the basis of the commitments already made to the European Community in the previous period, the Government will finally begin to privatise banks owned by the European Community, including on a multiple basis by representatives of the European Community, within the framework of the programme for this year, to finally launch the privatisation of all three banks: New Credit Banks Maribor, New Ljubljana Bank and Postal Bank. On the basis of this programme, the Ministry of Finance has requested the management of both banks to submit, to the management of one bank and another, its proposal for the privatisation of banks. Management of the New Credit Bank Maribor submitted its proposal, the core of which was that in the process of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, a strategic partner or strategic investor should be sought to enable New Credit Bank Maribor to further develop and achieve its medium-term strategic objectives. In addition, of course, it is also intended to ensure the bank's continued independence, the bank's seat should remain at the location where it is today, and the bank's management has also set out some other potential liabilities to be assumed by the potential investor. The government has adopted a somewhat complementary programme, in addition to the core of the strategic investor, which it has also set out on the so-called "put and call" options - expressions known in the financial markets - so it has made a domestic offer to be prepared at the same price as the 65% share of the ownership, minus one share, to sell to the potential investor after a certain period of time also the remaining share of the shares. At the same time, at the same time, it offered or demanded that a potential investor undertakes to purchase at the same price the share that the state now owns, along with the compensation and capital fund, each 5% each. Such a programme was adopted by the government at the end of May this year. At the same time, the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, also adopted an order on how to dispose of state-owned assets, where, of course, the sale process of this form of state property, particularly, of course, of these two state-owned banks, was sufficiently clearly defined. Under this Regulation, the obligation to continue the privatisation procedure was assumed by the Commission, which in this case was proposed by the Minister of Finance, in which, of course, in addition to the employees of the Ministry of Finance, there are also external experts, both economic and legal sciences. The Commission's task, therefore, was to lead the privatisation process after the programme was adopted. All the information with which the Commission is meeting and will continue to meet is confidential in nature. Therefore, of course, the Commission can contact the public at the moment and provide only information on the decisions taken. However, the Commission's obligation to prepare and submit a privatisation report to the government after the privatisation process has been completed, with a proposal to enable the potential strategic investor to purchase 65 per cent of the state-owned bank's ownership. From this I assume that the government will be able to report to Parliament at the beginning of the second year at the latest on the privatisation process. Of course, a number of procedures still targeted to complete the privatisation process by the end of the year must be carried out on this path. In the public domain, of course, it all the time points out that the process and method of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor is in many ways different from the privatisation process of the Ljubljana Bank. That's right and partly not so. It is true that the management of the New Ljubljana Bank submitted a different concept of privatisation for its privatisation. The privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank consists of two streams. At the same time, it offers two different types of investors, first of all the key ones, an advertisement was published on October 17th, offering a 34% stake in the ownership of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, which is owned by the state, i.e. ownership. In the second phase, institutional investors will be offered; that is to say, those who will invest their capital as a so-called short-term or medium-term capital investment in the Novo Ljubljanska Bank or the purchase of shares of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, with the possibility that this investment will be resold later. In terms of expertise, this is the so-called investment portfolio. Therefore, it does not intend to interfere or influence the management of this type of shareholder, but is of course interested in the fact that the bank’s profitability is as high as possible and that the net value of the bank’s assets is increasing through increased profitability, and thus, of course, the net value of that part of the assets that they have invested in the purchase of shares, so that they can later generate as much return as possible through the sale process. At the same time, the concentration process of the Ljubljana Bank Group is ongoing. The Maribor Credit Bank does not have any daughter banks, while Ljubljana has 6 banks, and with two banks it has also concluded even closer, I would say, cooperation agreements, which can also lead to these two banks becoming actually an integral part of the Ljubljana Bank in the process of consolidating the Slovenian banking system in a few years' time. And it is not true that another country is stepping up in the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor as it is with the Ljubljana Bank, because the country is selling the same share of property, its property, both the Maribor Credit Bank and the Ljubljana Bank, only because of structural changes, because at the same time the addition of six banks to daughters will represent about 24% - 23% to 24% of privatisation, in addition to 10% of the capital and compensation fund and 7% of private ownership already in existence in the Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, it appears that they are different in the process, but in fact the State is trying to sell its share in both banks in the same percentage and to retain at the same time a 25 % share in its ownership plus one share; in this way, it has an impact on what statutory changes may or may not be accepted at that time. The difference - just in short - is that the management of the New Credit Bank Maribor has proposed that it needs a strong strategic investor for its development, and the Ljubljana Bank has said: we do not need it, we need key investors or a key investor and we need institutional investors and we want to continue to be the main Slovenian asset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I have already said in the introduction that government representatives have a ten-minute rule to respond to; this business obligation is not very strict, but I would ask all those who are in charge of Members and Members to try to do so. If the answer is not accurate enough, colleagues and colleagues will ask a complementary question. Would any of the ministers like to answer my colleague Puksic's question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Ambassador Pukšič asked a number of questions regarding the analysis of the number of state institutions in different cities in Slovenia, the amount of budget allocated for this and that, in different Slovenian regions and so on. Well, and I can say that a number of these issues are in fact very similar to the questions or initiatives that were addressed or endorsed in the form of conclusions at the extraordinary meeting of the Maribor City Council, where I attended as a government representative myself. Well, I can say these conclusions to my colleagues or colleagues in the government, and the government has also adopted a decision in which I was entrusted by the Minister or the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs and the Ministry responsible for the economy to prepare an analysis of the implementation of the regional development strategy and an analysis of possible preliminary measures before the formal application of the decentralisation-oriented landscapes, which they think would be appropriate; and all of this should be delivered to the government by 15 October of this year. I am convinced that, of course, after this in-depth analysis, the government will resume its work on these issues and can then report more reliably to the National Assembly. Well, speaking of which, let me just say what came out of the question of Mr Puksic. There was a claim or question whether the government had defined itself until Minister Kopač's statement that there were no adequate personnel in Maribor - I quote Ambassador Puksic - and therefore it is not appropriate that the seat of the holding company is there. Such statements, I must stress over and over again, I have never said, never, and I have been framed. That is why, I hope, in a broader explanation of my statements of July's meeting of the City Council of Maribor, I have also explained this accordingly. What did I say? I have stated that the main business function of the holding company is the joint performance of Slovenian electricity companies on the market, perhaps somewhat simplified we can call it marketing, and that this activity has so far been performed exclusively and only in the context of the public company Eles - and in fact this moment still - and that they are, unfortunately, only concentrated here - objectively only this moment, I am not saying that it would not be any different in the future, but unfortunately only here - that they are properly qualified workers for these tasks. This was my statement or statement, and it is, unfortunately, so far due to the organisation. That's not something I'd make up. Well, if this was my kind of statement - I had a feeling, of course, that everyone at the city council also understood this explanation. I also said that if anyone might have taken this statement as an insult - which I was also told more times - if I had offended someone - that I sincerely apologized for it. But I only described the facts that I didn't cause, but they are the state of the system that was established in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your explanations and your answer, Minister Kopač. Would any of the ministers like to answer the questions asked by Comrade Puksish? Do you have any further questions? Please, you have two minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Yes, anyway, but I understand this last statement by Minister Copacz again: you stupid Styrians don't understand, then don't even watch TV! I was watching that time, and I heard your statement, not just me, but thousands of Styrians. Besides, if they cheated on TV, they should put it back on the table. And secondly, of course, I wanted to tell Mr. Tolar more. Mr Tolar, is it possible to obtain this information, which is confidential in nature, because, of course, I would like to see the differences between the proposal made by the Bank of Maribor and what is the privatisation proposal complemented by the government. Of course, now we will not discuss whether it is under the authority of the government or not. We have already discussed this in the National Assembly and were of a different opinion - in the opposition. If, of course, there are catastrophic consequences now, which is expected, in social institutions and in the economy and also in culture, then for the fourth time in terms of privatisation or damage to property in Maribor, we will actually kneel. We had Maistra, we had something else in common, but we didn't, because they solved things; this time it is the responsibility of all the Members coming from the other side of Troy and, of course, the others around. And the following to Mr. Gantar. Mr. Gantar, I asked you if you were late. Say we're late or we're not late. At that time it was your position - half a year: we will prepare it all. I warned you then that this could be a short time. No, you're getting away today. Old practice! Adopting laws, adopted decisions, one minister says that we do not need to respect them and implement them, the other: well, yes, we are a little late again; and it doesn't matter, for a month or two. That's when you'd say don't mess around! Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to get answers to the questions raised in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u98	In view of this additional question, or the position of colleague Puksic, does anyone else want to answer from ministers or secretaries of state? [[No, no, ……]] Then I expect you to give written answers to my friend Pukšič's questions. The next one will ask the government a question from my colleague Štemberger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. My question would have been asked by the Ministry of Finance, but it was the reorganisation of the tax administration. In the last reorganisation of the tax administration, we lost some jobs at the exhibition in Illyrian Bistrica, which, interestingly, did not stop, but only moved to Postojna. Thus, in Illyrian Bistrica, it is no longer possible to regulate a number of matters, such as: issuing a certificate of taxes and contributions paid, issuing a certified copy of the tax assessment decisions on the activities that citizens need for scholarships, for education, for applications, for admission to student homes, for imports of material and equipment, then a certified copy of the income assessment decisions that craftsmen and entrepreneurs need every day, everything necessary to register new activities, for entry into the register of independent entrepreneurs and for the register of taxable persons, for termination procedures, for the calculation of VAT already in one way or another. Certificates issued by Durs to citizens for the exercise of various rights such as health insurance, borrowing of loans, social security rights, applications for citizenship, work permits and the like. It is also no longer possible to present evidence of the payment of tax liabilities in Illyrian Bistrica. Finally, even as basic a matter such as issuing a tax number. In the specific case of the Illyrian Bistriski municipality, which is borderline, these procedures are non-life for our citizens living in neighbouring Croatian places, and they are few and need certain tax services. Domestic entrepreneurs, however, are wasting valuable time and money to handle these matters. In this way, the country is moving away from citizens rather than moving forward in the opposite direction. It seems unacceptable to me that even 40 kilometers from home, citizens have to do such things during the period of information technologies that we meet in the 21st century. I've had a different idea about the E-government, which has been so much talk lately. I'm asking. Why such a reorganization or - if you want - rationalisation, in this case, the tax administration, where the same employees perform the same tasks for the same customers, even on the same computers, only at a location that is, for example, 40 kilometers further away, both for employees and for users of services? I've got one more question coming up here. Is it possible that, behind such reorganisations or, if you want, rationalisations, not just tax administrations, but other public services, there is no way that some pressure from the state on future regional connections is hidden? I have addressed the matter to the Ministry of Finance, in fact, because in the last case it is a matter of reorganisation of the tax administration, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, there is a warning to the whole government, because tomorrow we can expect similar reorganisations in the judiciary, the police tomorrow, and God knows where else to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Master Koncan. The Secretary of State will answer your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u101	Dear Member, Mr Štemberger. I also know your letter, which you have already addressed to the Ministry of Finance or to the Minister of Finance himself. There are also several other initiatives of mayors, city councils and the like. Thus, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia started to implement certain rationalisation measures and procedures at the beginning of 2001, which was its objective and purpose in order to make the tax service more effective. And in some cases, when these rationalisation and centralisation procedures have been carried out, it has already achieved certain effects on both sides, if I may say so: both tax services and taxpayers. Of course, in all of this, all interests can never be satisfied. Someone, in some cases, may also feel at present, I would say, a worse situation than what was before. In your particular case, in the context of the Permanent and Exhibition in Illyrian Bistrica, we have conducted a number of different meetings, interviews, especially of the mayors of Illyrian Bistrica, but the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia as an autonomous body within the Ministry of Finance has, of course, begun certain procedures for rationalisation and centralisation and has temporarily introduced certain movements of employees, not in full working time and definitively, into the Tax Office Postojna. I can argue that the centralisation project prepared by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is still in the Ministry of Finance, because the concern and responsibility of the Minister, the Ministry and me, as Secretary of State, is to examine carefully and carefully all the reasons that would dictate centralisation across all tax offices. In a particular case, we therefore expect in the coming days to re-examine - and such a request has already been made to the management of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia - all the reasons "for" and "against" a certain centralisation procedure in the tax office Permanent to see whether there are really more benefits for everyone, as you may have mentioned, most importantly, I would say a deficiency or negative consequences mainly for taxpayers Still at this point the exposure works. Even twice a week, as far as I'm concerned, he has certain hours of work or official hours. It is carried out on an experimental basis, as I said, and, of course, in the coming days, together with those affected or their representatives, especially the mayors of Illyrian Bistrica, we will consider the final effects, and in this direction, we will also, in fact, issue appropriate instructions to the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the management of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, whether centralisation in a particular case goes on or not, because the negative consequences are greater. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do you have any further questions? Yes, you do. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u103	I didn't get an answer to the second part of the question. If any of the government could tell me whether it could be through such reorganisations, here I mean not only the tax administration, but also other state services, it does not hide some hidden pressure from the state on future regional ties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Do any of the authorities want it? Secretary-General of the Government. Please, Mr. Bandelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. So, I can ensure that, of course, the country does not intend to force anyone into regional ties, especially through the organisation of its services. It follows exclusively the principles of rationality and efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The next government will ask a question from colleague Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers and representatives of the executive branch! The first question is therefore addressed to the government. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued two decisions on Article 10 of the Income Act in 1996 and 1998. Decisions shall establish non-constitutionality in the Income Act and shall relate to financial allowances for children. On the basis of the decisions, the Government should propose in due time to the National Assembly a legal arrangement whereby the Constitutional Court’s decision to abolish the finding of unconstitutionality should be abolished. Since the government has not done so, both the Government and the legislator have violated Article 48 of the Constitutional Court Act in breach of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power, in order to suspend the abolition of the anti-constitutional system. And another example of non-compliance with constitutional decisions. Mother singles legally shut down electricity because she could not settle the bill in time, for her daughter had to buy books for school, and this to a daughter for whom she had been 12 years, according to data, is trying to recover her livelihood. There are countless cases where the courts of maintenance have been dealing with and delaying for several years. For the same people, for example, the said mother who has been waiting for 12 years to recover maintenance, on the other hand, the court sends executions after a month, two or three months; of course, where the creditor is a bank or another state authority. It is therefore another infringement of the Constitutional Decision. This refers to the law on enforcement, whose amendment the Government should submit to the National Assembly within one year of the decision of the Constitutional Court and this decision was issued in 1999. My question is whether these facts are true and who will be responsible for the violation of the Constitution and laws. More information, explanation in one sentence. The facts were sent to us by the Society for the Protection of the Rights of Children and Single Mothers. As a result of these violations, this society, I say, even wishes to press charges against the Prime Minister and against the competent minister before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for asking. Before inviting representatives of the government to speak and answer, I would like to say this very quickly by one of my colleagues and colleagues, but I ask the ministers and ministers to join us in the Chamber at this point of the agenda that you are here. This is a dialogue between the government and Parliament, and I think it is appropriate for ministers to participate in the answers to the questions raised by colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect, of course, for State secretaries. So who will now answer the question of Comrade Barovic? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u109	Mr Barovic, honourable Member, we are aware of the letter from Ostrzek, to which we have already responded on 25 April this year and have given all the reasons why the constitutional judgment has not yet been implemented by amending the law on income. In this reply, we stated that the Government had submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration in December 1997 an amendment to the Income Act relating to the contested Article 10 and to this ruling of the Constitutional Court, such as another other judgment, something similar to Article 11 of the Income Act. However, due to procedural matters, since three other proposals have been tabled or tabled, the last draft law has not yet been considered or is awaiting its order. However, one might say that it is merely a formal, procedural reason. We certainly know that the government has set up a comprehensive treatment and, in part or in a substantive sense, a major change in income legislation, in its tax programme, where it will primarily try to tackle not only specific cases that in certain situations of life can become as rigorous or as unprecedented as you mentioned them. However, this requires much more thorough preparation of the new Income Law, and I can assure you - as I have already answered in this National Assembly months ago - that since then, April or since March, we have been preparing all possible calculations and ways to overcome this essentially fundamental conflict between what we would like in the field of income legislation, not only to follow constitutional judgments - this is one small part - but also to meet the demands of trade unions and the expectations of people, taxpayers, in order to dispel the lowest income classes in order not to be such tax obligations as they are so far. I can reiterate that the amendment of the Income Law is currently in intensive coordination with individual professional institutions, that we expect that within a month it will be submitted and sent to interdepartmental coordination, and immediately thereafter to the government, so that the government can then submit such a proposal or such a amendment to the Income Act also to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question, colleague Barovic? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Not additionally, I would ask, if possible - for this answer, thank you - for the answer to the second question, which is to take account of the constitutional decision on the law on enforcement referred to in the second part. If it is, if it can't be written, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u112	Will the government answer this question in writing or is there anyone who would like to answer it orally? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u113	Mr Member, the Ministry is preparing a new law on enforcement and insurance, so that everything that is not yet harmonised will be taken into account in this context. This amendment to the law is in an intensive, final stage of coordination, so that it will be submitted to the National Assembly this year. Details related to the subject you have opened can be given in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. My friend Pucko is supposed to ask the government, so he's registered, but I don't see him in the hall right now. And I invite Dr. Joseph Bernick to speak. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow Members. I will return to the question I have raised in June, and that is to say what is the plan of the government to redeem or settle the debt of the Slovenian state to all of our people, the Slovenians, who were killed thousands after the Second World War on Slovenian soil. For more than half a century now, our country has been in grave violation of the most basic rules of human origin, of nature, and of constitutional provisions. Slovenia is a land of countless known and unknown graves, where thousands of Slovenians and Slovenes from one generation and many foreigners are buried at the very scene of the crime. Even in the present graves, both government and other authorities, and both of the Ombudsman's past human rights, behave as if it were an interesting historical or archaeological discovery and nothing is done, there is no epilogue, a legal one, even though these skeletons show signs of crime. So, I wonder what the government is going to do, when and how before we enter the European Union. The victims are still without identification, no names, no honor and dignity, no decent burial, grave, and memory. However, relatives await the deathbeds and the time when they will finally be able to accept the death of their loved ones and thus complete the cycle of mourning. The European Union should be based on respect for all human rights, all of them. I don't know how the government doesn't know that. So, I'm asking the government, what is he going to do, when and how to solve the problems I've ordered. If the government does not start doing this, it will be necessary to cut down on known international legal instruments in order to finally put an end to this Slovenian disgrace. Until this is done, we will rightly ask and ask, as it once was said in the Roman Parliament: "Quousque tandem, Catilina, abutere patitia nostra...?" I hope you all understand that. This means: Today you will challenge our patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick. Who will answer that question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Mr Bernik, the government intends to complete the Teharje project in the coming year. For next year, some 21 million are currently foreseen in the budget for this purpose and in 2003 some more money. This autumn, the Government Cemetery Commission intends to adopt priorities for the building of memorial markings, especially the Teharje Memorial Park. However, it must be said that this park was very much in the beginning, you might say, pre-mionedly planned, because so far the government has already directed 230 million tolars to this cemetery, but it is still not finished. At this point, we learned that someone there, for example, had planted 420 seed cisterns, with which the land was fenced or planted last spring. So it's an extra problem, and I'd say it's an ugly thing. But we will do everything within the limits of objectively recognised resources to this end to try to complete this memorial park in Tehar as soon as possible. The second question is a memorial park or memorial at a cemetery in Kočevska Rog. A chapel was built there last year, but it turned out to be a black construction and now it's a case in a court of law; we're waiting for this case to be resolved there. However, in any way, according to my information, the Commission, which will continue its work in this area, is inclined to implement the original adopted and selected plan of the memorial chapel in Kočevsko Rog, which is far more beautiful than the emergency one, would say a temporary sign, as the commission or society of silent graves called it, which is now done there. By all means, the government wants to do this work, which we think is absolutely necessary. However, the problem is that there is now another cemetery and we also think that this cemetery should be allocated in the coming year certain funds in Upper Bistrica, which is of course right. If the money runs out, it is likely that some other means will have to be channelled by the means of redeployment. In any case, we think, so the government intends to properly mark these graves, but in the future it will be necessary to plan such memorial signs that will serve their purpose at a reasonable cost and, of course, the number of victims buried there will have to be an appropriate mark. Because, I would say, the mega-Romanian plans then suffer the fate of a never-ending work, such as the Teharje Memorial Park, because for this money there might be something there, but it's not there yet. We now believe that in the coming year, and no later than in 2003, this matter will be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much for that answer. Dr. Bernick, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much for explaining, but I haven't talked about one or two tombs, I've talked about everyone, and these are about 80. And if the state doesn't see it, there's something wrong with the country. That's one thing. Second thing. We're talking about the goals of this. Right now, Teharje is a disgrace. Okay, we're talking about targets. People need to be identified, given their name, set up a monument and all that stuff. When the country will do so if our country does not do so, someone else will have to handle it. That's my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Paula Rupar. You have 3 minutes, Comrade Rupar. Here you go. Can you turn it off, Dr. Bernick? Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Two months later, I received a written question about the government's response, or specifically the Ministry of Finance. At that time, I was interested in the amount of meetings or monetary compensation for participation in the meetings of the supervisory boards of the subsidiary banks of the New Ljubljana Bank abroad. I asked about LBS Bank New York, Commerce Bank Sarajevo, Interfinanz Zurich, Interfinanz Prague, LHB Internationale Handelsbank Frankfurt and Adria Bank in Vienna, and as I said, days ago I received an answer with incredible numbers. These figures or cost records were indeed as a mass of all members of the individual bank, the individual supervisory committee, which I am not satisfied with. I want and please, if you can pass on the names and sums they got for their work. However, I have not received an answer to the question whether the managers of these banks are entitled to the amount of their retirement, to whom and to what amount they have been paid so far since 1990. The government or the bank’s competent authorities have skillfully avoided this response. But I demand that you answer that. Today, I am asking some new questions about this. I would like to know how many members of these supervisory boards of individual banks have been credited to bank accounts held abroad. I further ask whether the government or the competent ministry has the data, whether these members of foreign banks with open giro accounts have paid income, as should any citizen of that country. And I am further interested in the denomination if you can provide me with how much travel costs each of the members of the individual supervisory boards has been reimbursed, so that I can learn from this how many times he has attended individual supervisory board meetings also because their supervision, according to the competent institutions, is poor. I'm asking for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much, my friend Rupar, for asking. Mag. Tolar, you can explain this officially.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u123	The answers to these questions, Mr Rupar, will be provided in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u124	Another question, Comrade Rupar? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u125	Well, that's the answer I was expecting. Of course, I'm not happy with him, even less likely the public will be satisfied. I'd also like to ask this question if you can answer me. On which items in the final balance sheets are the travel expenses recorded? That's what I'd like to ask. Of course, I would ask if the deadline could be less than two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u126	Yes, mag. Tolar, answer? You will also communicate this in writing. Okay. My colleague Marko Diaci is on his way to the government. You have the floor, Comrade Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, hello, everyone here. The question would be addressed to the Ministry of Defence, in relation to the events that took place on 11 September in the United States, and I suppose that is also of interest to many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am interested in the following: whether our country has also been officially invited to this so-called anti-terrorist alliance. What are the specific content of cooperation in this alliance? Even a hypothetical question: what would it mean for Slovenia at a given time if it were already a member of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to the Ministry of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Only buddy Bevk has a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I have a question for Minister Dimitri Rupl regarding current problems or the question is: what are the current activities of Slovenia in responding to terrorist attacks in the United States of America in response to the international community. That's my main question. Then I have a question for the Ministry of the Environment and Space concerning the irregular situation in the field of exploitation of sales in our rivers and compensation to fishing families for construction operations on watercourses. The economic exploitation of yield rivers, such as Soča, Idrijce, Kolpe and many other Slovenian rivers, is an ecologically sensitive issue, which is also regulatoryly unregulated. In a word, there is a pretty big anarchy in this area. Fish families, however, are faced with unregulated legislation, including the issue of unrecovered compensation for construction operations in rivers. Most of these questions and initiatives have been sent by the Slovenian Fish Association to the nature protection board since January this year and have not yet received any answers. Minister of the Environment, mag. Digger, I'm asking what he'll do about these problems. I thank both ministers in advance for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u132	Okay. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer first, Dr. Rupel. Please, Minister Rupel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u133	Dear Mr Bevk, you are asking what the activities or activities of Slovenia so far have been in response to events in the United States of America or the so-called anti-terrorist alliance or anti-terrorist coalition. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the letter that Prime Minister Drnovšek wrote to the American President. In this letter, the Prime Minister of our Government speaks of Slovenia being determined to participate firmly in the fight against terrorism and to join the efforts of the international community to do so. As you know, Slovenia has participated in several meetings, in several organisations dealing with these issues. I am thinking here, of course, of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, I am referring here to our association with the positions and activities of the European Council, that is to say the Heads or Heads of Government of the European Union. As you know, all candidates, including Slovenia, have joined this decision or announced activities. We discussed this issue at a government meeting in Brdo and assessed it and agreed that if appropriate requests were made by the US government, we would also propose appropriate practical measures. So far, in addition to the declarations, in addition to the forecast, in addition to the verbal position, in addition to the verbal guarantees, Slovenia is operating in a whole range of areas where activities aimed at persecution or the fight against terrorism are taking place. It is the involvement of intelligence services, the exchange of intelligence, the exchange of diplomatic information. Our embassies are authorized to collect relevant information in a normal way, through their colleagues at our embassies. Of course, we also control some of the sensitive points of our system when it comes to the entry of foreigners or the passage of foreigners across our territory or through our territory. This is about control or information about visas issued and so on. When and if the US government asks for any more concrete forms of cooperation, I would say that any more drastic forms of cooperation will be proposed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the government will propose that such requirements be met in terms of options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. That was the answer to your first question. Minister Kopač will answer the second question of Comrade Bevek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u135	Dear Member Bevk, you asked how the economic exploitation of mud, sand, sales and other natural resources from Slovenian rivers was regulated. Let me say that legislation in this area is somewhat complicated, because the Water Act of 1981 provides for this water management permit, which was only available for public service activities, for water management public service activities, while the Environmental Protection Act of 1993 allows this activity to be carried out on the basis of a concession. So now we have two acts and two different situations. Well, at the time of my predecessors, the Ministry of Environment and Space has tried to address this issue in a new draft Water Act, which has also passed the parliamentary procedure at first reading and is now in the government procedure for second treatment, but in fact the time of actual regulation of this problem has shifted and shifted. Well, that is why at the Ministry of Environment and Space this year we started an intensive preparation of a concessional act to draw natural resources from the river Soča, which is the most profitable in the Republic of Slovenia, already under existing legislation. In short, we have begun to prepare a concessional act on the basis of an existing law on environmental protection and we have decided not only to wait for the adoption of a new water law. This concession act is now in government procedure, in inter-resort coordination, and I sincerely hope that it will be prescribed and that it will start to deliver the first financial results for municipalities downstream of Sochi as early as this year. The other rivers will be right behind this; we started with Soča, which is the most profitable and we have the most leaking of some kind, some species, but very concrete state property there. As for compensation for damage to fish life, as you mentioned, due to construction operations. Once again, there are actually two laws governing this area. One is the law on freshwater fishing from the distant year 1971, which provides that compensation for possible construction operations shall be paid by those who carry out these operations and shall be paid to the authorised fishing organisation. The second law, which specifically regulates this, is the Nature Conservation Act of 1999, which provides that any construction operation on the watercourse must be based on a previously acquired nature-protection guidelines, the component of which is also a requirement or a definition of compensation. At least that's how it's formally arranged. It is possible, however, that there is some damage to unauthorized interventions in the space - I do not exclude this. It is possible that some things are not arranged in the event of interventions, such as last year's or the removal of the consequences of last year's Plaza in Logo under Mangart. Otherwise, this is regulated legally, and I did not know about this letter, which, as you mention, was sent by the Fisheries Authority in January this year, and now that I know of it, I will, of course, be the director of the Environment Agency, to which the former Nature Protection Authority belongs today, ask what is going on with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Those were the answers to your question, Comrade Bevk. Before I invite my colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, let me say that the American Ambassador, in a letter addressed to me, thanked all Members of the National Assembly for our special meeting, which we have dedicated to solidarity with the victims of the American tragedy, and thanked her for her support for the Members and Members of the United States at these tragic events. Sonja Areh Lavrič now has the opportunity to ask the government, for her colleague Dorian Marshic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished ministers, Members, Members of Parliament. I come from one of the most neglected regions in the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the competent ministry why the Koro Region is still receiving the least support from the government. I am also interested in how unemployment continues to increase in Koroška. Suspicious acquisitions of once very successful companies - more than anywhere else in Slovenia. I wonder if this is how our government represents coherent regional development. I can also substantiate all my questions with the facts that you can read in the daily newspaper, and as proof only to give the case of Radje ob Drava, currently 13, almost 14% of unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Which one of the ministers would like to answer that question? Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u139	I'm sorry. If I understand correctly, the issue came up with an environmental rent. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u140	With regard to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u141	For the regional development of Koroška. It's a Koro region. Agreed, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u142	Okay. That was the kind of misunderstanding we could still afford. Minister, Dr. Tea Petrin will answer your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. I must say that the government, as you are aware, has a strategy for coherent regional development as well as a law. Accordingly, the competent institutions, such as the Regional Development Agency, work, of course, as well. The Agency for Regional Development shall, of course, finance the programmes coming to this Agency. I must say that, according to good projects, they are also financed. The funds earmarked for regional development are growing, I would say, so that we can expect a greater incentive from this ministry in the future. In 2002, the growth index at the Ministry of Economy for Regional Incentives was 115, which is 15% compared to 5% for the entire ministry. So, within the Ministry, we have provided funds and, of course, we can also promote this regional development accordingly. However, it is in accordance with the law, as you know, - the incentive must come from the environment, the programmes must come from the relevant regional institutions and then the funds will be shared accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. My friend Dorian Marshich is on my list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u145	My question is to the Minister of Transport or the Ministry of Transport. The importance of the current railway track from Kopra to the interior of Slovenia has been highlighted several times. Unfortunately, too often, the environmental burden of this short section of the railway track is highlighted. It's mainly going through a water catchment area. Also, the characteristic of this area is the inaccessibility of the line due to the characteristics of the short term and the high fire risk of Slovenian Istria. Train compositions during this period cause hundreds of fires, not only in Slovenia, but also in Crassus, to the point that the Hrastovlje Valley is largely burned. The damage occurs both on agricultural land and on surrounding buildings. Slovenian railways do not carry out preventive measures along the track, there are no necessary firewalls, no preventive lawn mowing and removal of combustible materials at that lane. In this regard, they refer to a government that does not provide funds for these measures, and the story is repeated from year to year. Slovenian railways are also subject to a large number of complaints from year to year, which go into tens of millions of tolars. I ask whether the Ministry of Transport is aware of this critical situation and what measures it will take to address this problem if it seems that there will not be another modern rail track from Kopra to Divaco for a long year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u146	Please, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Transport is aware of this problem and it is also my opinion that this problem is being delayed too long. I can only say that I will try to get this problem resolved as soon as possible, and I will inform the Member of Parliament and the National Assembly more widely of the arrangements in this regard. I know the solutions are known and proposed, but we really need to agree on when and how they will be implemented. I think we need to cut this story once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by Comrade Sok to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and Members! There was some talk about the road programme in this Parliament before the recent adoption of the annual programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia, as well as today Minister Pavel Gantar has already answered this question in one sentence. I'd like to add something to that myself. I know that Dr. Pavel Gantar is replacing Minister Presecnik, who is on sick leave. At that time, the government made a very important decision, adopted the amount of funds allocated to the Transport Ministry for the next two years, it said, in 2002 and 2003, and of course will also depend on the implementation of the Slovenian road programme. I would like to remind you that we have named this programme a project of the century, but today this project of the century is actually on a dead end. Therefore, it shall not be implemented as it has been set up under the national programme. I will read briefly the conclusion of the Darcy Supervisory Committee, which says: "The national programme balance adopted at the end of April 1998 is not being implemented. The annual scope of implementation is significantly lower than planned. The deadlines for the adoption of the regulations on the location plans have not been met. The project documentation and other investment documents shall not be produced within the agreed time limits. Problems are in terms of land acquisition, which are too expensive. Investment valuations have changed. The beginnings of construction are late." In particular, the basic conclusion of Darsa’s administrations is that the programme will no longer be possible until 2004, the closures in 2005. Some mention, so I hear, that the rebalancing that is in preparation and is supposed to come this fall is being invested in the National Assembly, that this rebalancing should assume that the arms would somehow be completed by the end of 2005 by the end of the highway from the sea via the Trojans, by 2010 and 2012 most motorways were built and by 2015 and 2018 by the end of this programme all the works on our motorways were completed. So I wonder if those who talk about regional development problems will actually have to wait for our area to get road links to the Slovenian road crossing only in 2018. So these are definitely unacceptable hands. However, I would like to point out - I see that the time is running out - to remind me of the provision you have written down in the coalition contract, in which you note that the key problem in investing in this programme is the construction of roads and railways, in particular, within the scope of the available resources and that the coalition will therefore support any option of partnership with private capital. So this is the last thing I would ask if you could tell me what the government has done so far to actually include private capital funds in this Slovenian road programme: either domestic or foreign, and when the national assembly will receive appropriate legislation for the area of concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much, colleague Sok, for the question. Who? Dr. Gantar, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Given that I have been in this ministry for a short period of time, but involved in the highway programme for many years, I would say with full responsibility that I do not agree that the highway programme is in a dead end, but it should be said that the conditions and assumptions under which this motorway programme was established in 1992 were substantially changed. There was no known route at the time, the values of the routes of the future highways, since some areas had not yet been foreseen or determined where the highway would go. I'd like to see someone who can tell me how much it's worth and how much it's gonna cost if this route wasn't even in the right choice. Today, when almost all the site plans are adopted, or are before adoption, with some still open problems that we can count on the fingers of one hand, it is, of course, much easier and clearer to decide, that is to say, what is the real value of building individual sections and, of course, it is easier to make a real assessment of the funding as well. In particular, I would say that during this period some other conditions have changed, which required significantly more subtle measures to place motorways in a place where I understand that many of us and others, on the one hand, want to implement the highway programme for as little cost as possible, of course also supports - sometimes justified, sometimes not - the demands of local communities and others affected by these highway programmes - which are affected by them - do not affect - that a number of other things are still at the expense of the highway programme. It will also have to be a fair and frank debate when we have this balance ahead of us. It should be added that this rebalancing is in the course of the previous rebalancing, namely new sections of roads, especially those connecting: bonds, deficits, which have significantly increased this programme. It is certain that, to this extent, as was later established, it will not be completed by 2004. This is certainly clear to everyone. It is certain, however, that the deadlines due to go through 2010 are unacceptable. So we are looking for solutions in these options, how, when financial resources flow from a gas tolar, so-called, and the engagement of other resources - but foreign capital is possible or private capital is possible - to ensure adequate road dynamics. At the moment, a study is being prepared on the possibility of providing, involving private capital in construction. Of course, it should also be noted that all motorway sections are not attractive for, say, a classic concession BOT relationship, that a possible slightly more subtle solution will have to be found, besides concessions, in the direction of recapitalisation of Dars with private capital, but it is still too early to talk about it. But we will talk about this very quickly, concretely and precisely at the time of the rebalancing. At present, however, a study is being prepared on the possibilities of these private capital investments, but I must say that it has not yet reached me, but it will come soon. If I received this question later this day, perhaps I could say it more precisely. Some of the conditions given by the concession of the motorway outside are that, for example, under certain concession conditions are effective when the daily traffic on the highway is more than 50,000 vehicles. To such a, very strict and large, strong condition, such a condition, I think it fits only a few highway sections in Slovenia. When I see all these numbers, of course I will be able to give a concrete answer and I think you will have it very quickly before you. However, there are certainly more options and investment in this private capital, and this will certainly be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Minister Gantar. Comrade Sok, would you like an extra question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u153	It's just a short sublime. I would like to know why government representatives in these concession laws always mention only the number of cars, as if other conditions would not exist when the concession is granted, but that only the number of cars, when we know that this is not so that these things can be solved not only by the number of cars but also by different means.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u154	Minister Gantar, would you like to explain further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u155	I don't know who else gave you this first time as an example of some synthetic indicator. [[...]] I agree that, of course, other parameters are important. As far as I know the issue of concessions, of course, the key question is, perhaps more crucial than the number of cars, what are the conditions for taking over and returning concessions after the end of the concession. This means: the concession that will bring us back the road as a ruin is of course not a solution. This is an additional condition, which is very important. Of course, as it is said, the question that you have asked is a fitting one, but the question is now premature for me these days, because this study has not yet reached me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The next one has the opportunity to question the Government of colleague Jerovšek. You have three minutes, Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Since today's issues relate mainly to financial transactions, in particular to the financial transactions of our bank "cats", I will also ask for some transactions of another such "cat". In an interview with Carla Del Ponte in the Journal of Delo of 30 June 2001, the chief Hague prosecutor stated that she had discussed with the interlocutors the financing of Slobodan Milosevic in Slovenia and the ways of Milosevic's capital through Slovenia. Since I have already asked about this in closed meetings of the Parliamentary Committee and have not received any answers, I ask how much of Slobodan Milosevic's financial resources are located in Slovenia, through which financial institutions and legal persons have led the ways of Milosevic's capital forward into the world. [[That's Mrs. Carla Del Ponte's direct statement.]] . Third - Which Slovenian officials participated? Fourth time. Was this about the foreign reserve of the former Yugoslav National Bank, which was supposed to be a success? Were these transactions involving Slovenian politicians or other Slovenian legal or natural persons? Five more. In Ljubljana, who were the spokespersons for the Hague tribunal's chief prosecutor in this case? When I asked that question, I didn't get an answer. Let me say that I addressed this question in writing to 26.7. But I have not received an answer to this day, so it is necessary to ask the public orally. The following question would be asked by Minister Kopač: how many times has the energy holding company, its operation, been physically, personally in the holding company's seat since he stated that it would be at least three times a month. I have information from the house. I'll see if it matches. However, as Minister Kopač has today denied his statements made twice by RTV, I ask the government whether it is the principle of the government's action that the declarations and actions of ministers, which would imply the immediate withdrawal of the minister elsewhere in Europe, simply declares the people non-existent or declares the people ignorant if they do not understand or misinterpret ministerial statements. I ask for an answer to be given by a government representative and not by an involved minister. And the question to the Minister for the Information Society. Can he confirm to me that it is true that Posta Slovenije plans to lose for this year, and how in this light it assesses the purchase that management has acquired the most expensive Audi A8 car - with the most modern equipment, better than the government - in such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u158	Comrade Jerovšek, you've taken good advantage of three minutes. There are many questions. Dr. Tolar, I'm on my way, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u159	In view of the fact that you mentioned that you have already addressed the first question to the Ministry of Finance and that you have not yet received an answer to it, I would like to tell you that in this matter, the money of Milosevic and the transfer of this money through the accounts of Slovenian banks, there is also a demand in the sector for international financial relations, which falls within my competence. I assure you, we sent you a written answer because I signed it last week. But I'll, I'll make a commitment, see why you didn't get it before today's session. In a short time, however, I can answer the same answer I have already answered or the answer we have prepared there. Given that no one from this sector was present in the discussion between Carlo Del Ponte and between the Slovenian Representation or Representation at the time, and given that we did not get any more detailed information on which banks should have done so, if it had been, we could not have obtained any information, to verify whether it was true or not. Therefore, we are unable to give you a definitive answer. On behalf of the Ministry, of course, I pledge once again that we will offer you the whole first question as soon as possible. Both answers: first the one that has already been sent, then, of course, the one that you have re-explained today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Mag. Tolar. Minister Gantar wants to complete this question or answer another. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u161	It's a question of mail. Mail does not plan, mail will definitely have a significant loss on all segments of the public service, which is clear and can be clear to anyone if you look at the price of the service and the quality of the service it offers. The question is only and only if the business in the sector could be said not to be subject to the public service, it is said in the profit sector, if I may say so, that it will succeed in its entirety. We have charged her with replacing the loss that will take place in the public postal service segment. The programme and the tasks that we have given to the Supervisory Board are that it must do so, and at the same time we will have to slightly correct the prices of certain services in the public service in the coming months. This certainly means certain incentives, but I would like the honourable Member, his colleagues and colleagues, as well as others, to be able to look at the prices of comparable postal services in the countries, not those in Western Europe, for example, because let's say that there is a higher standard and so on, they can pay more, but in countries, for example, that have essentially lower economic development and standards. So much so that they will see where Slovenian mail is today with the prices of their services. I therefore think that a specific policy that leads to a real price for services or a reduction in quality and scope of services is necessary under certain conditions. As for the purchase of cars, I don't know, we'll check it out and, of course, we'll see what really happened and what didn't. At this point, I must say that all authorities are either in the Ministry, or outside the Ministry, or state-owned companies which are bound to the field of action covered by this Ministry, committed to measures of rational public administration, their means or public funds. I'll certainly find out what was bought and what wasn't bought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Minister Gantar. Anyone else from the government? Yes, Minister Digger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u163	If I understand correctly, two questions were also addressed to me; and that is, how many times have I been - czech, I have stated that I will be in the holding seat of the holding company two to three times a week, if I understand correctly. Of course, I've never said anything like that, and don't make my statements. However, I have declared that I will have to be in the initial period of two to three times in contact with the management of the holding company per week, and that, of course, I also - I can guarantee that. For the time being, this guide represents V.D. the director of mag. Dear Fabian. No, no, no, no, no, no. You have repeated or wished to repeat the statement previously made by Mr Pukšič. Once again, I must say that I have never made such a statement. You can go back to the old TV videos. I am, of course, equipped with magnetograms, because I expected someone to ask me such a question. I haven't given a statement that I've been framed in a lot of media. But I said - I repeat again, and now I will quote myself that the staff for the main business activity - I have explained about it before, this is a secret - a performance on the market or a more simplified, marketing, mainly in Ljubljana. Why, I've explained before. Because this same activity has so far been carried out within the public company Eles and this has been organised. That's why I'm not guilty, and somewhere else, unfortunately, objectively people with this kind of knowledge could not even be trained. At this point, they are not trained elsewhere because they have not performed these functions elsewhere. This has been organised in the electricity sector so far. This was just an additional explanation for my real statement, I gave it earlier, and I hope that I have further explained it now, if it has not been clear to anyone before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u164	Before I invite my colleague Jerovska to ask an additional question. Any other representatives of the government? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Tolar, first of all, it seems strange to me that our financial authorities do not know how to respond to things that are obviously -- data -- has the chief Hague prosecutor. Your answer was similar to that of Comrade Paulet Rupar. In the meantime, I have learned that in the New York bank, these supervisors received an average of 1.5 years' infamous Member's salary - for the prize. It's outrageous that you're not giving any answers. Second. Mr Gantar, I understand more than that: greater is loss, better equipment must have management. And then to Mr. Digger. I believe your statements are being falsified by journalists and officers. That's the statement I read, yours, and I didn't track the dementia. Regarding the second statement, I must tell you that when you were correcting yourself, when you were saving your skin, you even spoke even more insultingly about Styria and Maribor; that there are no people for business in Maribor. As if there were no business functions in Maribor, we know that exports and all that in some outside Ljubljana areas are even greater. And I would like to have a question, what I have put on the government's representative, not personally on the minister. Has the government taken its stand on these statements? It seems unheard of to me that such statements are made when 10,000 people in Maribor and the surrounding area sign that they are unacceptable, that the government does not take its stand. President Drnovsk was drawn to the language, he was asked - he avoided the issue. And I want you to tell the government whether you have taken a position on such statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u166	Two government officials reported. Before I give it to the Secretary of State. Tolaru, I give the Prime Minister the advantage. Minister Digger, would you like to explain your position? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I was talking about the main business activities and this is a joint appearance on the market. I don't think I need to explain again that this has been organised so far within the framework of the public enterprise Eles and that, unfortunately, it is only here that people with the right knowledge can find this moment. Of course, there is no indication that they would not have been able to do so elsewhere at a certain time. However, as far as business functions are concerned in general, I think that the situation detracts from these claims made by Mr Jerovska, as was finally reported, that Members were also informed through information that the Government has addressed and accepted on the activities involved in the establishment of the holding company. The purpose of the management of the holding company is that the technological function, the technological business functions within the holding company are organised in Maribor, which will, of course, be a great acquisition for Maribor. Until now, Maribor had only the company Drava power plant Maribor in the field of energy and nothing else, and in the future it will have or will be established within this holding company a number of other business activities within not only hydropower but also Slovenian energy in general. I do not think that it is necessary to explain in detail now, because all of this was first presented, quite in detail, in the city council of Maribor as well as later, perhaps even more in detail, to the government. Therefore, I think that all these reasons for the word business function that has just been expressed are inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u168	Mag. Tolar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u169	Mr Jerovšek, I believe that you were not satisfied with my reply to your fellow Member, Mr Rupar. Believe me, I wasn't happy with that answer myself. However, I did not want to prolong my explanations, it is very simple. I am not in charge of the administration of the Minister of Finance with State property, which is the responsibility of another Secretary of State. What I have just promised is that I will pass on the question and that the ministry will give a written answer. Of course, in my function, I can take up the answers to questions concerning the Maribor Credit Bank, because I am also the President of the Supervisory Board on official duty, and I am not competent in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, so I cannot give any answers. I'm a tabular race.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u170	Comrade Jerovšek. Can't I give you Procedural? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u171	Mr. President of the National Assembly. I ask that in the last reply, the Government be hardened because the Secretary of State has made it clear that he is not responsible for giving answers. The Government is obliged to send the competent ministers and secretaries to the Members of Parliament. I think it's your duty to protest this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u172	Comrade Jerovšek. I was already in one of the interventions an hour ago to warn the government that it is at ministerial level to participate in this debate. However, we are also pleased to hear with respect the explanations of the State secretaries, but there are several questions that the Minister must be asked about. There are more ministers today than ever. Let's hope this tradition continues. As we have always expected, from now on, the government will answer written questions in writing and oral questions with the presence of competent ministers here at the meeting. And may your warning, then, remain an invitation to the government to abide by this agreement and the rule of law. The next question will be posed by the Magus. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members! Dear representatives and representatives of the government! The question is addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. However, I take it out of the application of the denationalisation beneficiary for the return of the school premises in nature. Upon the announcement of the results of the June graduation, the first generation of graduates at the Maribor School of Arts, Dr. Ivan Šuhec announced that the spatial pressures of the school would finally be resolved in the autumn by moving to a secondary agricultural school. In the coming weeks, more news could be found in public publications about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport's agreement on the restoration of the premises and the work of the school property. It is about 50 hectares of the entire 130 hectares, located on the southern slope of Calvaria and on the main part of the Vrban plateau, where the most important drinking water pumps are for the water supply of Maribor. In addition, certain other denationalisation beneficiaries' claims could also be traced for the return of school premises in nature. If recovery in nature is carried out in this case, the problem of one school will be solved, but the situation of another will not be resolved, whose situation will deteriorate significantly, and what may happen in the future that programme will no longer be at this location, although it is a school with a 130-year tradition. I therefore ask that, given that she is a debtor for the return of the State, whether she intends to take into account the conclusions and views of the Maribor municipality, confirmed at the meeting of the City Council of Maribor. Is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport registered with all denationalisation requests? How many of these applications are for recovery in nature? What will the financial consequences of this fact be if, in many other cases, it returns in nature? How can this fact of returning in nature affect the future design of the school network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much for asking me this question, colleague Potrata. Which one of the State Secretaries? Dr. Peyovnik will answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u175	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, Madam Mag. Spending. First of all, I must say that negotiations are actually under way on the recovery of the buildings you mentioned at the location of Vrbansko. However, negotiations are under way, not nearly complete, and there are still many open issues at this time. On behalf of the Ministry, I can provide you with the following: we know, we have all the applications recorded. At this point, however, I cannot answer you with a number, how much of these claims are for recovery in nature or what are the financial consequences. We'll let you know in writing as soon as possible. As for the agricultural school in Maribor, I assure you that we will maintain the program of this school at this location or near this location. We're going to start construction for college, and the secondary agricultural school is going to keep the program. We have already appointed an expert group, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, to prepare a programme, change, restructuring programmes in relation to European specialisation and complementary training programmes. So, I guarantee that the programme remains and will be restructured in line with the new requirements that Europe is putting before us. Negotiations on return in nature are difficult for our ministry in any case, from one to the other: either it is a school museum, or it is any other school, such as Križanka, etc. It is extremely serious and with all responsibility that we are saving them and trying to ensure that we are able to replace the premises where this is going to happen in time, or in the negotiations we are demanding that the return in nature cannot occur before we find the replacement facility. But the property you mentioned at this location is not coming back. I hope you are satisfied with this partial response. We will provide you with accurate information on two of your questions in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Dr. Pejovnik. Are you happy? Mag. Spending, you want an extra question?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you. I am pleased with this part of the answer and thank Dr. Peyovnik. I also expect a written answer. However, I would ask another question because different decisions or negotiations at least indicate that the decision may be different, thus destroying another decision in 1995. I ask whether this means that the question of the return of the third high school premises and other buildings in Maribor is being reopened. However, if I am allowed, of course in the second part I would point out that by ensuring that the property will not be returned, I also do not intend to ask the Minister of Environment and Space how the fate of the pumps on the Vrban plateau is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Can I help you, Dr. Peacock?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u179	Yeah, I'll be relatively short. When negotiations are under way, it is, of course, almost impossible to fully predict the result in advance. But there's one thing I can guarantee. In the case of third grade, this is at the same time in negotiations, as a very strong argument and the Ministry does not depart from the position adopted in 1995.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Dr. Pejovnik. Would you like to join us, Minister Digač?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u181	Did I understand correctly that you want or don't want to talk about the Vrban plateau? You don't want to. Well, let me say that I have a more extensive meeting with the representatives of the Maribor Municipality tomorrow, and we will also talk about it so that, because I am prepared by chance, I can also serve you with a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u182	Mag. Little thing, it's your turn to ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and representatives of the government! I would like to ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs first, and then the Minister of Economic Affairs. We are pleased that the government has finally come to realize that it has made a big mistake when it proposed last year to amend the law on pension and disability insurance, with which it damaged more than 400,000 pensioners. At the time of the adoption of the law, we have warned that environmental issues cannot be resolved in this way. So, in September, the government decided to correct this grave mistake and to correct it with a new "ad hoc" methodology that has no basis in marriage. Apparently, it will continue to regulate pensions instead of law with such methodologies, any methodologies. I am interested in the following: how long will this methodology apply, whether you will submit legislative changes, why you have not yet proposed legislative changes if you have found that this existing system is not functioning properly. Second question to the Minister of Economic Affairs. Briefly, when will a new trade-time regulation be adopted? We all know that the Constitutional Court has annulled that infamous trade-time regulation. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Which of the government's representatives will be first? State Secretary Belopavlovich, then Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u185	So, first of all, about the methodology. It is not true that the methodology has no legal basis. The methodology has a basis in the amendment of the law, i.e. in the amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance, in Article 150 of this Act; it is precisely provided that the methodology is adopted to be adopted by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether this decision, or this article, and referring to this methodology is appropriate or not, the question may, of course, be asked legitimately. Such a question has already been raised before the Constitutional Court, and we do not yet have a Constitutional Court decision on it. In fact, any one of us would be able to sum up very badly at this point if we said that the methodology or reference to the methodology was legally sustainable or not. On this point, the Constitutional Court will give its opinion. I think it is also wise to amend this article when it comes to this article. Nevertheless, we are preparing, as you probably already know, changes to the law on pension and disability insurance at various points of these changes will not be so small, it is not some profound substantive change, in particular those issues which have proved to be less clear or inadequate when implementing the law and would therefore be shown to be adequately corrected. We'll propose a law. I must say that probably next month, I hope that in October the bill will be adopted by the government. However, I must also say that we were counting on the National Assembly to consider before that the analysis of the implementation of this law, which we have already submitted before the holidays, is exactly the end of June, and we have calculated that, on the basis of this analysis and the assessment of this analysis by Members of the National Assembly, we would also have made it easier for us to propose changes to the law and also make it easier for us to decide on what procedure, given that we have suggested, somehow, in the conclusions of that analysis, that changes should be made after a reduced procedure, regardless of whether these changes are likely to be quite a larger number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Dr. Petrinov, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Petty Officer. Well, let me remind you first of the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is no longer, there is no longer, since the new law on the areas of ministries has come into existence. It is currently part of the government, the Ministry of Economy is operating. Well, as far as your question is concerned, I must also, unfortunately, correct you. First of all, the Constitutional Court has annulled all the rules, except as you called it, the insolvent rule. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in The Constitutional Court repealed Article 17 of the Trade Act. And, of course, we are now preparing an amendment to this Article 17 of the Trade Act, together with that Working Group, which was appointed before the Constitutional Court repealed; I stress Article 17 of the Trade Act. The situation is now that it has been agreed that the representatives of this group, mainly by trade and by trade unions, will prepare their proposals and we have not yet come to these proposals. If we receive these proposals, then the group will also meet with representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour and then continue its work. So work goes on normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u188	Additional question, Comrade Drobnic
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u189	Yes, an additional question or warning at the same time. This very case of rapid changes in the pension law shows that such errors are not to be repeated. When this law was passed and we were voted on, we drew attention to the facts and consequences, and we will therefore have to correct it again, because the law is unclear, they call the ministries and explain it in their own way, although the law is clear. Article 150 also discusses how this can be done. It also applies, of course, that the reconciliation of pensions always applies from the first day of the month in which the harmonisation is carried out, so there are no reimbursements. Such a law should be adopted which takes account, i.e., which depends mainly on the statistical growth of wages, and is firm and secures decent pension benefits, but does not leave and leave free interpretation, for then we may encounter a problem that the amount of pensions will depend on the good will of the government or, in particular, the individual minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to take a stand with the competent ministers? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Tank to the floor. I am informing the National Assembly that 11 other colleagues and colleagues have been reported for questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. I have two sets of questions prepared and they both concern the Ministry of Environment and Space. The first set refers to the retainer in Prigorica. As you know, last fall's good rain has filled the accumulation of reservoirs in Prigorica, which is intended to collect excess water, streams, Bistrica, Ribnica, Sajevac and their tributaries. Despite the excessive downsizing of land and the threat of partitioning facilities, the water level in the barrier reached the level of centuries-old waters as a result of the barrier. The barrier has proved to be in extremely poor condition and is unlikely to last another such rainy period. The letters sent to the Ministry and the public by the Environment Agency show that it is no longer possible to ensure the safe operation of the barrier and that about 500 people and their assets are at risk. Last December, I proposed that the removal of the barrier should be included in the intervention law on Soča. Nor has the amendments been adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Sanitation or reconstruction is expected to be included in this year's budget. This happened, but only with half the amount. However, to date no administrative authorisation has been obtained, nor has the selection process of the contractor been carried out. In short, nothing happened on the bulkhead. And I must say, people are extremely concerned. A few days ago, I received a written answer to the oral question posed to the Minister, in which he informed me that the investment was being transferred to 2002. This response greatly affected all endangered people in our congregation. I wonder why, despite your promises last year, it was not possible to obtain an administrative or construction permit in time and to do at least the most urgent work. And what do you intend to do to protect the inhabitants and property in the autumn and spring rain? The second unit refers to sand diggers. On the basis of the Mining Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia granted mining rights to holders of mining permits for exploration or extraction of mineral raw materials 192 legal and natural persons. In Article 3 of this Regulation, the Government, with legal and natural persons who have obtained mining rights, should terminate this right within six months of its entry into force. The time limit for signature was 15.5. According to the Mining Administration, no contract was signed. I would like to know whether, on the basis of Article 3 of the Regulation, anyone has already ceased this right or whether or not it is unlawful to draw. And I'd like to know when the concessions will be awarded to the municipalities in the same address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Who's going to answer first? Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u193	With regard to the last question, I can say that the area of mining has moved to the Ministry of the Environment and Space formally on 29 April, if I am not mistaken, this year. This deadline you mentioned expired on May 15th. Unfortunately, things were not ready until then, or they were ready to do so, that, unfortunately, we have not yet been able to formulate and distribute all the concession contracts. However, I can say that because I know that the time is running out - we are talking about the calendar year - we are not talking about the May 15 which is already behind us - I am very much urging my services to do so as soon as possible, so that we can sign or sign concession contracts with all those covered by the mining law this year. This is not dramatic because mining concessions have to be paid to the mining fund under the State budget as well as within the budget fund and the trust fund within the municipal budget, which is also within the budget fund, in 2002, for the quantities planned in 2001. So I hope that this problem will be resolved without any shocks. But when you ask me about Zagorica, I really did prepare a written answer for you right after, by the way, we met somewhere, and I don't even know where - we asked the question. Well, and this written reply states that the building permit will be obtained this autumn, but that the assessment of the necessary resources is now in mind, about 270 million or 280 million tolars, that the Ministry does not have these funds in this year's budget and has no place to take them. That is why, of course, we are planning this investment, which - I agree with you - is very necessary because of the potential threat; we intend to make it as quickly as possible in the coming year. But it's not true that nothing happened. The relevant project documentation has been developed, which is the basis of which the building permit is now being obtained. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you. I would only ask for a second part of the answer to the question, for the barrier to Prigorica, what it intends to do to protect people and property in the likely great autumn and also in the spring rain next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u196	Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u197	I will answer this part of the answer, I assure you, in writing. However, I must, of course, get adequate professional support from the management services that deal with this issue and intervention in such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by a colleague of Fari Horvat, behind him a colleague of Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, ministers, representatives and representatives of the government! First the initiative and the brief question concerning it to the Minister of the Economy and then another question to which, as announced, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer. Many information in recent days points out that the recent terrorist attack on the United States and the expected or possible future economic impact on our exporters, in particular direct exporters in the United States, may, unfortunately, subsequently have on exporters to markets linked to the US market and these are our main European markets. Some of the fresh information I have received today is that it is on the question of extracting already confirmed orders, that partners cancel orders, that they do not conclude new orders, that a number of business activities, conferences, promotional activities, and so on are cancelled. I am taking the initiative of the Government to closely monitor developments and possible consequences and to take action, if necessary, in particular, to provide in the draft budget under the reserve the necessary resources for measures to mitigate the possible and probable negative consequences. And another question. I ask the Government what and when it intends to do to strengthen and train the diplomatic-consular network, in particular missions to the European Union, given the fact that we are coming into the final phase of negotiations, that more and more intensive contacts between the government and the ministries, including Parliament and its working bodies, are needed by the European Parliament, that more and more lobbying is needed; in short, more and more intensive activities, which I claim today are not qualified, not numerically, not information-computerly, and, of course, also lack adequate space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Initiative and question, Dr. Petrinov, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Member. I think that your initiative is extremely relevant and important and that we have also been aware of these situations in the ministry, where we have already sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance at the time of this budgetary debate, that it is necessary to take into account the fact that other sectors, not just agriculture, can be subjected to certain external shocks and that so-called intervention measures must also be provided for these cases, as provided by all other European countries. Well, and in the context of this budgetary debate, it has been ensured, including by the Prime Minister, that budgetary resources under the budgetary reserves will also be allocated for these purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Next question raised by colleague Peterle, behind him colleague Please, would you please, Secretary of State Žbogar, would you like to give? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mr Members, I would like to answer another question about strengthening the diplomatic-consular network and the mission of Slovenia to the European Union. First, we fully agree with what you have said and think similarly. Of course, the prospect of signing the Accession Treaty in 2002 and membership in 2004 also led us to think about how to complete the DKP network in Europe and how to strengthen the mission or how to transform the mission into a permanent representation, which will become in 2004. With regard to the strengthening of the mission, the Ministry will complete the representations it has in the European Union countries by opening Ireland and Finland as soon as possible. The Foreign Policy Committee discussed this last week so that all the conditions are now set for the opening of these two embassies or the activation of these two embassies, which will take place before the end of the year. This will also complicate Slovenia's network in all European Union countries, with the exception of Luxembourg, of course. The second issue you are focusing on is the state of the mission or the transformation of the mission. The mission is currently sufficient for human and spatial purposes and also for information technology to meet our needs. But it is true that a great deal of reinforcement will be required. At the beginning of the year, we have already begun to develop the material that Slovenia's permanent representation in Brussels will look like in 2004. In doing so, we took models from similar countries. [[Ireland, Austria, Denmark]] and also prepare a model of what the Slovenian Representation in Brussels will look like on the basis of these models of comparable countries. Such material is prepared, the government will deal with it in advance next week and accept it. The material provides for the gradual reinforcement of the mission. The mission currently has 13 diplomats. In the final phase, and with this membership, it would be estimated to have about 30 diplomats, a little over 30 diplomats. The mission would gradually be strengthened next year, with the 10th and 2003 respectively, when Slovenia already participated in all meetings of the European Union without the right to vote, but would fully strengthen itself. The material also provides for the purchase of new premises for permanent representation in Brussels, which is of course - you have rightly said that the premises will be too small if there is more than double. The appropriations are provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2002 and 2003. Thus, last December the government committed the Ministry of Finance to take this into account when preparing the budget, and this has also been largely taken into account. What will be the final number of Slovenian representatives in Brussels, because they are diplomats, most of them not from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - what will be the final number - depends on the decisions of individual ministries to decide on the priority that can be covered by matters from Ljubljana, which are such priorities that they need their man within the framework of the Permanent Representation of the European Union. That's what I think. I mostly answered. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think we can be quite happy "maintainers of the people" as we have been referred to by the general independent entrepreneur, Mr Bojan Veselinović, editor of Radio Slovenia, six more ministers with us recently. I'm sorry. Mine's not one of them. But the question remains. This year's leisure time has brought the most obvious public opposition to our fundamental foreign policy objectives of integration into the European Union and NATO. I do not consider the media that opened and deepened this opposition at this time to be either conservative or oppositional. The matter went so far that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, felt the need to make this work public - I state: "to systematically oppose Slovenia's orientation towards the market economy and democracy, to oppose the western direction of our country..." The next quote shows that this is a serious attempt to revise our country's foreign policy and its priorities. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is then a bit wrapped up, but he has made it clear enough that this is the case - I quote: "for members of high-ranking and even ruling structures...", which leads me to conclude that there is a lack of unity in our fundamental orientations at the very top of Slovenian politics, because he says that this is a governing structure. And the Minister of Foreign Affairs takes note of all this story on August 11th in the Saturday annex of Dela with the following chandelier - I quote: "Then it means the final disarmament of the communists." I am now asking a question to the Minister, who is not: How does this disarmament picture itself? I would welcome her myself, but given how our leading structures have been occupied, starting with the president of the country, the question is whether our former communists will disarm NATO or then disarm them when we enter. Of course, I must say that key people in key media also fall within this same political category. And I don't ask a rhetorical question when I ask the minister: What is it like and where Slovenia stands today after the blow of the old elite, in the target plane both on the way to the European Union and to NATO? In fact, our media is also being monitored by our partners, I assure you from experience. And I ask for an assessment by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, especially given that Manhattan has happened, that Washington has happened, and then what has happened with the long-term consequences is our final run towards the main objectives in a slightly changed context. I am convinced that the summer anti-narcotics did not contribute to strengthening our external political credibility. And allow me just one more sentence. Since it was partly answered - the minister said earlier that the government is open to responding to a possible request from the United States - I wonder if the government has offered anything. And I want to know what our country or government knows about the offers made by other candidate countries for NATO and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much. You have addressed the matter personally to the Minister; the Minister is not, as I am informed, currently having some responsibilities in the National Assembly. Can the Secretary of State answer for him? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. And thank you very much, Mr. Peterle. You have addressed the question directly to the Minister and I think he will also answer you. However, I can try to answer some of the questions that you have mentioned towards the end, how Slovenia stands today as regards membership in the European Union and membership in NATO. Very quickly. With regard to membership in the European Union: You know very well, the negotiations of Slovenia with the European Union are going very well and we have closed down the twenty-one questions, chapters, and we intend to close the next five chapters by the end of the year, so that for the next year only the three most difficult chapters - agriculture, regional policy and budget - remain. These negotiations are taking place smoothly and without major problems, and I think that the public, and especially the National Assembly, are following them from the outside. With regard to NATO membership, you rightly pointed out the debate launched by the media in August. The minister responded to the articles several times, as well as to the members you mentioned. It is important, however, that the debate on Slovenia's membership in the European Union has been initiated and that the Government's arguments are seen. Most of the parties in Parliament who support NATO membership, as well as to see who he is and with what arguments he is taking against Slovenia's membership in NATO. With regard to NATO membership, the government is today or the government committees have just discussed the action plan and the national membership plan for the coming period. This is a very important plan which the government must, of course, confirm at Thursday's meeting, which envisions Slovenia's activities with the goal of membership in NATO. It lists all the topics that NATO members are interested in. This plan will be presented in Brussels by the end of September. Otherwise, we are moderately optimistic about NATO membership. As you know, so far, at least so far, the work has been a good chance that Slovenia will be involved in such or otherwise enlargement of NATO, which is expected to take place next autumn in Prague. In small variants, Slovenia is mentioned, as also mentioned in large variants, large strokes or whatever, large groups of countries. Of course, the latest events, or events, that were tragic on September 11 in America, put an extra light on Nate’s membership. We estimate that it is probably only the enlargement of NATO that just confirms or further arguments the need for NATO enlargement. About the specific offer of the Slovenian government to the US government - so far Slovenia has offered mainly humanitarian aid, medical assistance, assistance to dogs and rescue teams. This was in the form of an offer that the Americans gave a good thank you, but they haven't taken advantage of it yet. Regarding the specific offer you are asking about, the airspace and similar offers: As the Prime Minister said earlier yesterday, the Prime Minister wrote to President Bush and expressed Slovenia's interest or willingness to participate in such an anti-terrorist coalition in principle. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] or with great willingness to consider a request for assistance, such as would seem necessary to the Americans. The government will then follow the procedures in force in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u208	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u209	I thank Mr State Secretary Žbogar for what he has been able to say. I expect the Minister to answer the unanswered part of my questions. I have, of course, a further question: How did the other candidate countries react? Like, I know the information, they've reacted earlier and more, it's said, they've reacted before and they've offered more clearly certain things. I leave the assessment of this difference to the assembly or government itself. Then I'd like to ask you a question. We are here in the National Assembly, which has already discussed issues of sovereignty, ours, which may also be related to government decisions, and I am surprised that the Government does not see the need to strengthen its position towards America and towards NATO with a parliamentary position, either with a resolution, a declaration, special decisions or whatever. Seems like there's no way that it's a little uncomfortable for the government to get here with this topic. I would recommend that this happens and I think the government would strengthen the position and Slovenia itself. I mean, like, I think someone said today, did I read this somewhere: the timing of non-classification looks a little different today than it looked before 9/11. However, I have another question or sub-question here that is not directly related to this, but I would like to know if we can find out from the records of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which of the senior statesmen of this country has so far felt the need to measure the Atlantic with a Concord. Who and how many times? I can report the price myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you. He would like the Secretary of State of Zbogar to complete his explanation, although this was an explicit political assessment. They're being asked by a colleague of Peterle. Please, as long as you can do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u211	Yeah, that's all I'd say. The question was, I forgot because I didn't write down what other candidates offered to the Americans. Very different. So far, offers have been very different, from expressing a direct commitment to the obligations of Article 5 of the Washington Agreement, which binds members of NATO, to very eloquent political expressions of solidarity and support. Slovenia was among the first to send a letter on 11 September to Prime Minister Drnovšek, in which he has already expressed his support, not only expressed his support, but also expressed his willingness to assist Slovenia in this fight against terrorism. Also "the best office capacitys", as he wrote, is said to be the best of his ability. The day was followed by a written offer of humanitarian assistance and these rescue teams and similar, plasma and similar, as we immediately offered. So I guess we didn't fall behind in that. So far, the government has not decided on concrete forms of aid and, as the Minister has mentioned earlier, has also expressed its readiness to decide when to do so and will follow all the internal procedures necessary to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for these explanations. Next one's gonna ask my buddy Kelemin. You want to ask a question? Please. Comrade Kelemin, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Inadvertently, however, I must continue somewhere where Mr Peterle has finished or I have had my own questions about this. I would ask the Minister or ask the following questions: Indeed, Mr Minister has recently talked about anti-European-oriented elites and power centres in Slovenia, about these Eurosceptics. And of course, something unpredictable has happened that these Eurosceptics have obviously succeeded in their efforts. The public opinion of Slovenian citizens towards NATO has fallen significantly, so the Eurosceptics have achieved their purpose, and this is a very bad, negative signal for Europe and for NATO. And, of course, here I am asking the Minister: Will he, now that Eurosceptics have achieved his goal so to speak, finally engage in an open fight with Eurosceptics and finally expose them? In fact, he always spoke in some diplomatic language, wrapped up, undetermined. I think the moment has come for these Eurosceptics to reveal themselves. Of course, I'm also interested in: Is not the approach of Slovenia to Nate threatened by this act? I'd like that answer. I doubt that Mr Žbogar will be able to answer that question. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. Then the next question is, if I still have a little time, I'd ask the government, the government: Does the government in its strategy have a goal or ultimate goal to eliminate the craftsmen or S.p., espouses? Indeed, we no longer have a ministry for a small economy. When we once had it, it was located in Maribor, this decentralisation was actually destroyed, which was at least predicted. The fact that the authorities want to destroy small entrepreneurs shows a whole range of measures that we have recently taken. Let's say the company law, I won't, you know, where we're squeezing them, the road transport law, we know where we're squeezing them, the increasingly complicated tax legislation - I don't know where the anti-biocratic program is. Look at the last craftsman, everything in there is described as what happens to small craftsmen and what anomalies happen in the field of tax service. Then high penalties for craftsmen and so on. And, of course, I would ask you how it will and how the government intends to protect small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the Gradis affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u214	Well, before I invite the Secretary of State to respond, let me just inform the National Assembly that I will once again ask the Prime Minister that ministers participate in the next meeting on the agenda item "questions and initiatives" because the questions are politically and state secretaries cannot answer them many times. We have this point once a month, and I think it would be right for the government to be fully here to answer these questions. Do you want to answer anyway, Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to answer very briefly. I think that the Minister has already openly dealt with Eurosceptics more than he did with the natosceptics in August this year and has spoken quite frankly at that time, but he will say more himself. I would just like to inform or refer to what the Member said about the fall of public opinion support for NATO membership. I don't think that's so dramatic. Support for NATO membership was always around 50% in the last year, it was also higher, 56%, and it was below 50%, even this year. So given the last analysis, this latest study is not so dramatic; to a certain extent, it is also likely that the campaign, which was conducted through the media in August, is also the result of this trend. The Slovenian Government or the Ministry of Defence is working together to prepare a serious communication strategy on NATO membership. We create a site about Nate, where answers will be given to all possible questions, answers to all possible arguments that arise in relation to membership or against membership. So the August controversy came a little earlier than we planned a communication strategy in the Slovenian public. However, now that we begin this in September, we expect support to return to what has been previously strengthened or possibly strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Another question? Dr. Petrinov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I am actually very surprised to note from Ambassador Kelemina that the unit in Maribor remained. The Maribor unit remained and continued to engage in that activity or that field of work of the Ministry of Economy, which was also at the time of the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism and so on. So, primarily with questions concerning the development of a small economy and also tourism. Well, as far as the government is concerned about destroying entrepreneurs or its objective, of course, I cannot agree and probably would not agree with craftsmen or independent entrepreneurs. This is confirmed by claims or statements in the media that were made during the trade fair - I think we have been monitoring them. It has been shown how many obstacles have already been removed under this anti-biocratic programme, which relates mainly to the area of entry and exit of enterprises, in particular registrations and the like. And, of course, obstacles already being overcome, which are related to some other areas, such as the tax administration, the areas of finance, the areas of building land and the like. In such a way that this process of implementation of the Anti-Biroocratic Programme related to the small economy I think is going well and that we can expect results in other areas, not only in the field of registration and administrative matters relating to the small economy in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Zupan. Do you have any further questions, Comrade Kelemin? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask Mr Žbogar another question or say that somehow I disagree with his implementation, with his analysis in fact. This decline in public opinion, which was counter-Europeanly defined, was too high and I ask myself: What will happen if this percentage is still low? If there are more of these Eurosceptics, provided, of course, that these power centres will be anti-Europeanly oriented and continue to operate. What's gonna happen, and what's the minister gonna do about it? I would ask the Minister to answer these important questions. Because I doubt that you will now be able to give such a weighty answer. As for the economy, Madam Minister, I will be very pleased to convey your answers to the affected. I'm sure. However, let me tell you that it is not the same here to have a minister for a small economy or to have a dislocated unit that is still working for small entrepreneurs. I don't think that's the same. However, I would say this is my assessment, and so it all seems, under this legislation, which we have recently adopted in the field of economic operators and other legislation, and so on, that this authority is a self-sustaining and economically independent craftsman who is dangerous. Because his behavior is unpredictable and according to the theory of power, I think it's necessary to get him under control. This will be the easiest way to create large entities, where he will be employed and where he will depend on some salary and then you will be able to oversee it there. This is particularly shown in the Road Transport Act and so on. That's a lot of evidence. Anyway, I'll be happy to forward this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Kelemina. Just let me explain. The next two minutes were intended for a supplementary question. It was a controversy with government officials. There was no supplementary question in this part, so please, if we can stick to business arrangements next time. Thank you very much. The next question is Mrs Majda Zupan's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, representatives of the government! Something has already been said about regional development. But I would like to ask some more questions. The government itself recognises that the issue of regional development of the country is a very professional and politically demanding project. We have already heard countless promises to promote coherent regional development. There have already been countless projects that, at least for some we can say, have benefited their operators much more than those that have had economic difficulties and have already been used in a wide variety of funds to do so. But if we look at the situation in undeveloped areas today, we can be rightly appalled. Differences in developmental threats are greater today than ever before. The latest development threat index is in the most underdeveloped region 151, but only five in central Slovenia. The gap between the developed and the underdeveloped is obvious. The issue of regional development of the country must be addressed in a comprehensive and long-term manner. "The government will pay a lot of attention to this issue in the future," wrote Dr. Drnovšek prior to his arrival in Maribor. I ask the competent ministers: What will be the focus of the government? Does it even check the impact of aid on undeveloped areas? In the media, it was possible to trace information that so far the efficiency of the funds used has not been checked. The European Union is monitoring regional policy in particular in terms of reducing differences in development and it is understandable that it will not provide funding for underdeveloped areas without knowing whether or not the people in the undeveloped and demographicly threatened area have benefited from such resources. This year's budget has not changed the trend of deepening the gap between developed and underdeveloped areas, but it should be a coherent regional development as a priority budget area: How is this regulated in the government's two-year budget now adopted? It is in the area of regional development that more than any other area shows the need for an entity at the intermediate regional level to become a carrier of regional planning development and at the same time an operator of development measures. In this regard, I ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior: Why have their ministries not yet started discussions with the representatives of the municipalities on the final arrangements for the funding system of the municipalities and in accordance with their responsibilities and responsibilities? It will only be possible to regulate the status and funding of municipalities clearly and in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government and only then will it be possible to start a quality debate on regionalism or the forms of decentralisation required by the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. Who will answer that question? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u223	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since we are in the stage of preparing budgetary documents and are very thorough and in-depth discussions on this occasion, they also concern, of course, the issue of funding for municipalities or local communities. With regard to these debates, of course, a number of questions, initiatives, proposals are emerging, and I therefore suggest that your question be answered in a very complex and comprehensive manner in writing, which, of course, would be much better than that we are interpreting these individual matters orally now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u224	Good. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Would you like another question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u225	I would also like to ask you a question: How is regional development regulated at the moment in the government of the two-year budget? Can you find out more about this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u226	Who can answer that question? Please, it will be you, please. Secretary of State Strmnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u227	Dear Member! In the draft budget, which is currently in coordination and which you will then receive in the National Assembly, the growth index for direct regional incentives in 2002 is 15.2, in 2003 7.1. This is a matter of direct regional incentives. And this index is higher than any other index. Furthermore, in addition to these direct incentives, the Ministry of the Economy provides for a greater activation of Phare's funds, which is what the European Union is referring to as pre-accession structural assistance for these projects. We assess and in the draft budget is this potential, amounting to just over 3 billion Slovenian tolars for 2002. Of course, whether we can make use of all of this depends now on the projects and on what you have already mentioned that it can be a problem. The problem is the absorption ability to use these funds in accordance with the principles applicable to the use of these funds in the European Union. We have legislation in place on this segment that is compatible with Europe. This legislation requires us to verify the effects of the allocations, absolutely. Under the law, the Ministry is obliged to report twice a year to the National Assembly, twice every two years at the National Assembly on the implementation of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. And we intend to take this seriously. We have adopted a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also been addressed in Parliament's bodies, to promote coherent regional development. And it means you're running the instrumentation more or less closed. It is now up to us to implement the strategy. And at the Ministry of Economy, we are trying to do this as responsibly as possible. Regional differences are big, this is a problem, a problem that has been identified. Last but not least, this is why the strategy came about. And of course this is not only a problem in Slovenia, it is a problem across Europe today. Europe is dealing with the problem of coherent regional development, as well as Slovenia, and the solutions we see and prepare are solutions that would also enable Slovenia to use these instruments, which it has developed with its own legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Secretary of the Interior, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Since the question has also been addressed to me, allow me to complete this answer with a few sentences. At the July meeting, the government adopted the starting points for the further development of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, with a focus on the implementation of the provinces into the system of local self-government. The issue of the application of the provinces is strongly linked to the issue of decentralisation raised. The tasks shared by the government from these starting points among the ministries are: The Ministry of the Interior has the task of preparing an analysis within a short period of time, by 15 October, to analyse those competences of ministries that would make sense, rationally, a legal system-wide operational transfer to the provinces as a higher level of local self-government; this is the nature of the landscapes in these starting points. This project is running, will also be developed within the deadline, and I am sure it will contribute to clarifying issues related to the decentralisation of power. At the same meeting, the government also commissioned the Ministry of Finance to prepare a platform for the legal arrangements for the financing of the provinces. I believe that on this issue work is being done, in line with the starting points set out in this regard, so that the provinces belong to an autonomous source of funding, as well as the starting point for the transfer of resources in accordance with the transfer of competences. And this. The Ministry of the Interior has conducted several interviews with municipalities of various parts of Slovenia on open issues related to the financing of municipalities. These questions, as I have already answered to this esteemed congregation, are open, not just to the congregations, but to us. We have some professional recommendations in this regard, but I believe that the Ministry of Finance, as the competent ministry for this law, is working on this project and will take into account the recommendations of the municipalities and our ministry in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. These were the answers to your questions, colleague Zupanov. She'll be asked next by her colleague Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government! My question is aimed at unequal treatment of workers who lose their jobs due to bankruptcy, and I am dedicating it to the Minister of Justice. And what is it, exactly? By mid-1999, the bankruptcy managers had given the workers a uniform recognition of the exemption as a priority, and the amount of the individual exemption had also been calculated uniformly according to the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. In the second half of 1999, however, opposition to these expulsions began to be very serious, and some of the coerced managers opposed them and simply did not recognize them anymore. In order to make the matter even more complex, different interpretations or interpretations have occurred both in the professional public, between the ministries and even in the case law. This is a very sensitive issue, which has a very sensitive social dimension in addition to the legal unequal treatment of creditors, which, as the minister knows, is contrary to one of the fundamental principles of solvency law, and this issue also has a very sensitive social dimension, as the consequences are being broken on the backs of very affected groups of people, saying people who lose their jobs and almost generally find themselves in a very difficult social situation. As some coerced managers are aware of this, the company of the managers of Slovenia, in its enforcement, bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, turned to the government earlier this spring with an initiative to amend legislation or an initiative for an appropriate mandatory interpretation. And in this regard, I ask the Minister: Has the Ministry already addressed this issue? What is the opinion and position of the Ministry on this very sensitive subject? What does he intend to propose or do, propose a change to the law or a mandatory interpretation, and of course, Mr Minister, when? However, since I see that I have some time left, I would also like to address Minister Kopač, because he is not here, I will then hand over the material in writing to him. This is a case of black construction, which, although very large in Slovenia, is also in Ljubljana, it is specifically in Ljubljana's Prulas. The story started in the eighties, it's long, it's got a beard, but finally, a citizen who's got a life of black construction got a legally binding decision on the enforcement of an inspection decision, i.e. the demolition of that black construction. This decision was greatly cheered up, or this information, but since then it has been over, not days and weeks, but months and years, but nothing has happened. I intend to ask the Minister in this regard: How long or how long does it take for such decisions to take us? But I'll thank him for the written answer. But I'm asking the Minister of Bisak for his lips. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. However, the questions that are shorter than three minutes are not contrary to the rules of procedure. Minister Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you so much for asking. So we have been dealing with this problem for some time now, including with the issue of similar content sent to our ministry on 30 August and to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs by MEP mag. It's a trifle. So, in this way, we have already drawn up an answer and a position of our own, an opinion that we will send to the National Assembly, in coordination with the Ministry of Labour, as a government position on this issue. In short, I can say this as the essence of our view of this problem, which, of course, I admit and agree with you, is very serious for the affected. We are convinced that the correct explanation is that workers are subject to bankruptcy and forcible settlement as technological surpluses, preferably in the burden of bankruptcy or that these claims are not affected by settlement. This is also the case with the Labour Relations Act, as it has been prepared so far. It's for a second treatment. Of course, if bankruptcy courts decide otherwise, or if otherwise decided, they unfortunately have to enforce legal remedies in this case. Now, in this coordination with the Ministry of Labour, I expect that we will be able to send a coordinated response as soon as possible, and on the other hand, we expect - perhaps the Ministry representatives will also say - that they will soon decide whether to propose a mandatory interpretation of the bankruptcy law and the guarantee fund. We have already agreed with such a one, so with their draft on the subject. In short, I can tell you from our side that in a short time we will take a clear position. However, I expect that a single position by the government will also result in some actions to clarify this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Is next, please? [[...]] Minister Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u235	If I correctly understood the question of Member Simšič via intermediaries, it was approximately as follows: How long does it take from the decision of the inspector to demolish the facility until the destruction itself? Let me say that such legal decisions have been issued quite a lot, but the demolitions themselves are, of course, significantly less. I must say that by the time I came to the Ministry, there had actually been many fewer of them and that we have started accelerated enforcement activities this year. Right now I don't know what the data is, but I think we've destroyed somewhere between 10 and 15 black buildings in Slovenia since the first spring. In addition, we started chasing blacksmiths in the way of unlocking electricity, because this is illegal by law, and these shut-offs were there somewhere between 10 and 15 by our inspectors. Well, if I make it a little bit more concrete about the problems the ministry is finally facing. We have big problems finding the executioner, the one who's going to break the black construction. Let me just say the case of the demolition of black construction on the German road, there towards the Blacks, where the workers of the company that we have received and concluded with them are awarded concessions or a contract for demolition following the relevant previous complicated tendering procedure. The wife’s extramarital partner photographed from near everyone who was on the site, and later, of course, in a direct or direct way tried to get in touch with some of these people, who, of course, were not overly impressed with his statements, which he would not explain at this moment. But because of this, it happened to us, for example, that the employees of this company simply resisted and stopped tearing down. We'll just try to protect the construction site with the police ring and finish the job. I just want to say that, as a ministry, because of legislation, which, of course, we intend to amend soon, if you are Members and Members of Parliament to do so, we have great difficulties in finding the perpetrators of the demolitions themselves. The second problem we are facing is, of course, budgetary resources. All of this has to be paid from the budget. It is true that we then recover these funds, but recovery may take several years, and therefore we need to have a budget line. Well, and in this year's budget, there were very few of these funds, and then we redistributed them a little bit more, and we also estimate in the budget for next year, in our opinion, sufficient resources for this. However, since existing legislation makes it necessary to be very precise in these demolitions, it is necessary to dissipate all things and not cause any harm to the destroyer. This kind of demolition costs about as much as it costs to build, well, and that makes it expensive. If it were possible for us to tear this down and take it away with some heavy construction machine, of course, it would be much simpler and cheaper, and the effect would be more, and unfortunately this legislation does not allow us to do so. We also intend to propose amending legislation in this direction. I would not want to excuse only the mysteries of existing legislation, but I can ensure that the ministry team is really trying to be as effective as possible, including enforcement, for example, in persecuting black sand diggers, where, for the first time in history, we have finally managed to close one, I mean, a specific theft of state property, sand, and that we have a number of problems in doing so, but we are trying to eliminate them by daily work and, of course, by amending individual regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The word is now with my buddy Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. In recent times, some media have again pointed to the Slovenian drug problem, which has been put back into the hands of the methadone programme, which is expected to be enriched by the introduction of prolonged-acting morphine. According to Slovenian health homes, there are 15 centres for the prevention of addiction in which 1,326 patients were on the Methadone programme last year. In these centres, the human resources occupation is modest. The doctor is only present for a short period of time and the psychiatrist is even less, sometimes only 45 minutes per week. Often, the work of these centres is reduced to the distribution of methadone, which causes the same or worse addiction to heroin. I personally know cases where, for example, a young man lured a classmate who had never tried hard drugs to go with him to a health care facility and said that the "tall" was addictive. From that point on, he had no problem getting his dose of methadone in the center every morning, and after one year he was just a wreck. For almost two years, his parents did not know he was going to a methadone center and was addicted to methadone. This time it's a real "teller." A lot of time and effort have been made by his parents to finally free him from methadone treatment, "healing", and to include him in a therapeutic community in which he has been abstinent for almost a year. Treatment with prolonged-acting methadone or morphine is similar to the treatment of alcoholics by inviting him to an outpatient hospital every morning on two children of rum with prolonged-acting activity. Since methadone and now predicted morphine with prolonged activity are not a cure, but only a substitute that alleviates the growing social conflict of addiction, addiction only preserves and even deepens, and because Slovenian psychiatry can and can cure a large proportion of addicts, but only with much effort and no substitutes, I ask: When did the doctrine of the methadone program be considered and endorsed by an extended professional college for psychiatry, or health council, which is legally responsible for medical doctrine? Further, since we spend 300 million sieves per year for the work of the methadone centres, and for the methadone itself, which is very expensive, once again, so together about 350 thousand tolars per patient per year who comes to the center every morning for his methadone dose, I ask: But how much funding does the state devote each year to a patient who is being treated in a therapeutic community, for example, in one of Don Pierin's communities, who can really boast about good results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is likely to answer that question. It's a peak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Your Honor! Dear Members, this is where you are! On this occasion, I might be circumcised with what is said today about the substance of our answers here or how much we avoid individual answers. The questions that Dr. Sugar addressed to the Ministry of Health, or specifically to the Minister, are very precise, and if the contents of these questions were to be kept up to date, regardless of who is here, or whether the Minister or any one of his deputies, his assistants, could prepare for this content and give the correct information. Now, however, I cannot say in reality any more than that we will check your questions, especially from the point of view of the date of consideration of the programme in the RSK. By law, the Health Council is no longer the one who determines the content of the treatment programmes, but is determined according to the priorities of how individual programmes are then classified in the system through other substantive or organisational and economic aspects. So, we'll check this part of the question and answer you. And then, we'll check out that part when you ask how much money is being spent on other programs. In any case, I would point out that in Slovenia there is no decision on the content of the treatment programmes, on the level of the Ministry as an administrative body, but on the level of the profession. The clinics are responsible for this. And as you can see, Dr. Tsukati, an extended professional college. The Ministry is a more administrative body and the Ministry has decided in this mandate to give priority to certain objectives, which mean promoting the emergence of doctrinal guidelines for the treatment of individual diseases. We have directed quite a bit of our time, resources and so on into this activity. But I have to add so much more here, as you mention in some way indirectly, poorly or under-worked doctors in the drug treatment centers themselves. The fact is that we are facing the great needs of the population for health services in this country. Citizens are increasingly educated about the opportunities they have in this area. In some ways, they know what they can get. On the other hand, we have already said this several times, we are facing the fact that we are spending 8% of GDP on health care in percentages that are comparable to developed countries or perhaps small things below, but unfortunately our GDP is so much lower than the social product in Germany. We're just comparing it in specific numbers. For health care we spend about $750 per capita. The Germans have about $2,000 per capita. The costs are approximately the same, in particular the cost of material The labour costs are approaching costs in developed countries. This necessarily leads to an ever-increasing gap between these needs and the opportunities the health system can offer. Of course, I assure you in this place that we are doing everything possible to reduce this gap or to mitigate the negative effects that this low level or the low level of resources we are earmarking for health care. So I took this opportunity to expand my response to you a little bit. I thank you for the opportunity, for this question, and I assure you that the most precise two questions regarding numbers or exact dates will be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u240	Do you have an additional, supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u241	Yes, I have an impression, Mr. Mag. I'd like to repeat it if you didn't understand the question. That is, it is not a question of resources, it is a question of spending resources, it is a "cost-benefit" of funds allocated for this purpose, and secondly, it is a question of programmes that are very clearly professionally set up in medicine, treatment programmes, and I think it will really have to wait for a precise response, which I expect will not have to wait for three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. You have the floor, Comrade Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you very much. All in attendance have a very nice greeting! I have a question for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. This year we were awkwardly surprised to learn that the housing subsidy was reduced from 9,000 to 3,000. Even so, very few students signed up for this invitation. Now you have raised it to 7,000, which is still less than it was, given that inflation has only slightly increased and that the cost of living has increased, it is not understandable to us. Now I'd like to ask: Will these students, who have not signed up for this invitation in the first round, have another option, will you give another option? And what will you do in other areas? In fact, money is being cut, for example, for high school students in transport, money is being cut down everywhere, and we want more and more students to do so. Our national higher education programme is even so highly motivated that we want to have as many as possible 20% to 25% of the school population, the higher education population, the citizens. What are you going to do in this area to ensure that the student standard trend does not fall and at the same time will the students become fewer and fewer? In fact, parents are not all so rich that they can offer studies to all their children. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u244	Dr. Peyovnik, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u245	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Mrs Tisovic! I'll start at the last part of your question. What we will do by allowing as many students as possible to stay during the study under the same conditions - this is our primary objective. For the first time, as you know, 4,500 new student beds are under way by 2005. In the budget you will receive, you will see with numbers reserved funds for the project of new student beds. This is one of the actions. Another of the actions is that this year we have provided 500 additional beds in so-called concessional private student homes, where students undoubtedly have significantly better conditions than if they are competing for a room directly with a private person. And that's that part of the subsidy that we actually discounted, first of all from 9 thousand to 3 thousand, and of course you forgot that at the same time, we also raised the subsidy to stay in student homes from 2,000 to 3,000. This means that we have gone towards achieving the goal of enabling as many students to stay under the same conditions as possible. Unfortunately, we found that it was a step too fast. In that sense, you're welcome and we've corrected it. In agreement with the student organisations of Slovenia, this means with all students, we have changed the decision and we will grant the subsidy 7 000, by maintaining the increase of the subsidy in student homes. A very specific answer to your question, which is correctly and correctly stated: Of course, we must provide a subsequent entry or invitation to tender for this subsidy. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. My colleague Tisovic is pleased with the answer. Next is colleague Mirko Zamernik, and then, yes, I mean, last, colleague Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, as many of you as possible, to return the Secretary's remarks. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy, which has also covered the development of demographically endangered areas since the change of the Government Act: For the past three years, including this year, I would like to have a cut of the corresponding resources on the invitation to tender for demographically threatened areas by municipalities. Why would I want to know? I am speaking to some of my colleagues, and I myself know very well the cases where this year only one third of the funds from previous years have been received by the congregations. It is true that there was a little less money in the budget last year, and I was very excited by the Secretary's information that 15% will be allocated to this area in the coming year. However, I would like to have a comparison three years back. Next. I'm asking the Ministry of Health something like this, like I said before: Here I have a contract on co-financing of health care in demographically endangered areas during the 2000 budget period. This Treaty, although concluded in such a way that it could be contested, follows that the funds should be paid in the course of last year. Even so, the Ministry of Health would say, "the contracts concluded by the previous government are null and void and there will be no money". No, it's not worth that much. It is ignored as if these contracts were not available and now the one who concluded this contract, that is, the other party, will have to file an action. But we know what it's like to have lawsuits in court. But now I'm on the next issue. Mr Secretary, if you like, I will give you a concrete example of this treaty so that you can answer this question: Why was there no answer? Now we're in the next case, the court case. 18.4. this year, it was for the official to say that I am a concrete, former Rector of the Government for Youth or, as it is already called, terminated working relationship according to his and in the opinion of some lawyers, with an improper decision. So, against this judgment, he complained to the court, and there will probably not be an answer from there for a long time. 18.4. - termination of working relationship. After the three-time emergency of his lawyer, the last one was sent on the 13th of this year, then on the 20th, according to five days ago, he received a letter that he could come and pick up the workbook. I am therefore asking the Ministry of Justice and, above all, the Ministry of Education whether there has been a breach of legislation here. In my opinion, he was denied the right to work. If you don't have a workbook, you can't apply anywhere else. I am still asking what sanctions will be imposed against the person who did this. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u248	We'll probably start with a mag. To the storm troopers. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u249	Dear Member! The call for demographically threatened areas this year is being implemented for the last time under the old law on demographically endangered areas, and the future is to promote coherent regional development according to the criteria of the new law adopted in mid-1999. In 1999 and 2000, we distributed around 2 billion Slovenian tolars of funds on this call. The data are online, you can access the website of the Public Fund for Regional Development, which was used by the Ministry to carry out this call. Of course, we can also provide you with a report for 1999 and 2000. The report of the public fund exists where these funds are listed by municipality and also by statistical region. This year we have implemented this call for proposals for the last time, and also in the tender itself, we have indicated that we will only finance those projects that are in completion. In the very invitation to tender, that was the case. The funds that were earmarked this year amount to a billion Slovenian tolars, 2 billion last year and before last year. This means that it is logical that the congregations received significantly less than in previous years. In the coming year, this call will no longer be due to the fact that we have a new law. The new law provides that, if municipalities are to acquire funds for local infrastructure, they should only be linked to regional development programmes or to wider development plans for the supply of infrastructure to the regions. We're going to ask you for a general public order. In short, a professional approach to the future. The applicants of these investments will be regional development agencies. It was an invitation to tender this year. So, together with the call for local infrastructure on the basis of the demographic law last implemented, a call for regional infrastructure was also opened this year, where we have already opened this possibility of reporting after a new one. The applicants in the call for regional infrastructure have already been regional development agencies this year. This year we went into multi-annual contracts, and those municipalities that have adapted to the new system and prepared projects as required have also come up with additional funds. Those who relied solely on the call for local infrastructure, where they could run for funds themselves, of course had relatively less resources and will not be in the coming year at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mag. High and then Dr. Peynovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Member of the Viceroy! I assure you that there is no policy at the Ministry of Health that does not recognise the obligations arising from the contracts signed by the previous team. I'm happy to take your document, we'll check where it's stuck if it's stuck, and we'll answer you in writing to your initiative. I take it as an initiative, not more than a question. The answer to your question is what it is. There is no such policy that would not recognise signatures from the previous team.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u252	Dr. Peyovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u253	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, Mr Zammernik! The former Director of the Youth Office has never personally addressed me, although I am in charge of the Youth Office at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. That's clearly how he was dealing with other authorities. I will also check and let you know in writing what was actually going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u254	These were the answers to my colleague's questions. Now we're at the last, at my friend Mamić's, who we thank for his patience. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you. I rarely get the last word or the last word in my life. Dear government officials, dear colleagues, what's left of us! I would like to ask the Minister of Information Society a question on frequency and low coverage issues with different frequency signals. I asked a similar question months ago, but I was not satisfied with the fact that those answers were not correct. In Slovenia, there are a lot of places that are not covered by television, radio or GSM signal because of the spread of relief. I can name a few congregations. These are Ajdovščina, Vipava, Tolmin, Bovec, Gorenje vas, even Celje and Lendava. And there's something else that could be listed, what local communities, if not something else. I understand the technical difficulties of operators, but I do not understand the definition of the Ministry of Information Society and Telecommunications Agencies in modernising the frequency rule. In the Vipavska Valley, I was warned that there are technical possibilities and also a private enterprise initiative to cover such white foxes. Unfortunately, the statute of limitations is out of date. Long ago, his changes were promised. I'm asking when you're going to modernise it. This also partially solves the demographic problem of rural areas. I'm sure of it. The second question concerns the business policy of the state mobile phone operator, which is mostly state-owned. We know that there are special arrangements in the border band between countries whose frequencies mobile phone operators can use. From experience I can say that the signal of foreign operators in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in border areas is often stronger than the signal Mobile or Simobil. This is what I get for every time I drive from the Vipavska Valley to Ljubljana. We must be aware that the radio frequency space is in Slovenia's public good and that the signal of mobile telephony can also interfere with our integrity. The neighbouring countries seem to be very well aware of this and their operators have put their transmitters near the border. Unfortunately, Slovenia also shows a deplorable attitude towards border areas in the field of mobile telephony. For this reason, I ask you why at least the state Mobile does not adequately cover the border area with a GSM signal. Is it better for foreign operators to serve on Slovenian users, even though they did not pay concessions to the Republic of Slovenia and do not pay taxes? Do not Slovenian users also deserve a quality signal in border areas? Personally, I would allow the deployment of mobile network transmitters in much of Istria, both technically and legally allowed. Remember, a lot of Slovenians use mobile phones when they're on the Croatian coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u256	Minister, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Mr Mamić. In short, if any additional written information is required. The Regulation or the new Frequency Regulation is being prepared. It will probably be accepted in October. But the current law, according to my best reading of the telecommunications law and believe me, that I know him, allows for this private initiative. If you can either tell me in writing or otherwise more precisely what is, of course, a question, also through a private initiative, I think it is possible now. I don't think you'd be able to stop this from just an old rulebook on frequency. But we can solve this even later. The second question is very interesting. Just a few days ago, I resigned from my desk to the rescue of the telecommunications and broadcasting agency a letter that came through the Italian Embassy, with which Italian mobile phone operators complain about the overpowering signal of Slovenian mobile operators, which means that some Italian users of services on the Italian network or Italian customers have to make international calls via Simobil or Mobile network. It is certainly at the border of the great presence and density of mobile network transmitters. Certainly in some areas, they obviously, according to your statements, which I believe, penetrate Slovenia and, as it appears, also penetrate our mobile operators into Italy. This issue must be taken into account and clarified by the Telecommunications and Broadcasting Agency. However, when it comes to the issue of an international agreement and an agreement, of course the ministry and the government. With regard to mobile telephony coverage, I would like to say that it is true that Mobile is owned by Telekom and Telekom is owned by the State in 45%. However, Mobile and mobile telephony is a market service and is not a public service and therefore the government does not have any specific measures to encourage these or those operators or subsidise these or those coverage operators where this is difficult to access commercially. As I know, 99.1% coverage with one network, and others are approaching this number. However, if special needs are identified or it turns out that mobile transfer coverage is cheaper and better for some remote areas, the government or the ministry will respond accordingly in the context of a telecommunications policy that promotes development in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Will you ask a further question, Comrade Mamić? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u259	I would ask if I could get an answer to these two questions in writing, because I have to put it in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u260	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u261	You'll get this in writing. I would ask, however, if you could give at least this first question in writing in more detail, more specifically, to see where the problem is with this private initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u262	Good. For today, after this last parliamentary question and the answer to it, we will suspend the 8th regular session. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. Have a nice night, everybody!
