ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a good day. I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Peter Levič, Dušan Vučko, Leopold Grošelj, Franz Pukšič, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Roberto Battelli, Victory Jelinčič Plemeni, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Maksimiljan Lavrinc, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Andrej Fabjan, Franc Kangler, Alojz Sok, Vojko Čeligoj, Jožef Špindler, Pavel Rupar, Flower Zalokar Orazem, MajdaSirca, Alexander Merlo for the start of the session and Branko Kelemina. Since we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, please kindly insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. I guess we haven't been able to focus yet. I politely ask my colleagues and colleagues who are nearby, it is almost ten past ten to join us so that we can start our work. We'll figure it out another time. Our friends are still joining us, so I'm gonna wait a second. Second, we find out the presence and therefore politely ask that we insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. 49 Members and Members are present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much among us. Today's continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 29th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law; then the assembly will move on to the 30th item - a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on earthquake recovery and promotion of development in the Court; and in order to proceed. Procedural proposal, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have a procedural proposal to try to address the 49th item of the agenda today, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fund Act to compensate victims of war and post-war violence. I hereby base my proposal on the fact that tomorrow's programming-voluntary assembly of the society of the exiles of Slovenia is a major event and this amendment of the law is in fact very much relevant to this group and to this society. Therefore, it would be appropriate, in my opinion, that the National Assembly would also consider this point symbolically and in terms of support to this society, and thus also an essential question, to pay compensation to the expulsions. I think that's one reason. The second reason is also what we see how these meetings of the National Assembly are going and how the points are shifted from one to the other. In addition, a date has been proposed in this paper, which, if this point were to come to some autumn part, the whole novel would no longer be up to date. I therefore ask and suggest that the 49th item be considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Could you be more precise, perhaps by setting the hour, before I put a procedural motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	No, I don't have any here - it's just that I think that this novel, which isn't substantively I don't know how difficult it is, could be dealt with by this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	After this point. Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mag. The visionary, after the end of the 29th item of the agenda, to go to the 49th item of the agenda, is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the fund for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, to be put to the vote. We're voting. Respected and respected, since my assessment of our presence in the Chamber is more than 45, I ask you politely when we decide for the second time on a procedural proposal to give your vote by pressing one of the keys. We'll vote next time. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 25 votes against 15. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted, which means that after the end of the 29th item of the agenda we will move on to agenda item 49. So we move on to 29. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. Does the billmaker want a word? Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A warm welcome to the representatives of the government and also to all colleagues, Members and Members! The substance of the new VAT law currently under consideration is in two substantive sets. The first set of contents speaks of a reduction in the tax rate from 19% to 8% for fire protection and rescue equipment. The second content is the introduction of a zero tax rate for holders of words, images and sounds in the field of literature, art, science and education. That's worth pointing out. Let me first explain a little bit about the purpose of what I, as the first-signed proposal, proposed this novel or what the other Members have then supported. Firefighting is a compulsory local public service in Slovenia, for which both the state and the local community are responsible. Operations in the field of firefighting cannot be carried out as a profitable activity. Firefighting organisations, however, perform tasks and rescues in fires, and others in particular preventative tasks against fire and, of course, the protection and rescue of people and property in the event of natural and other disasters. In Slovenia, therefore, firefighting is an activity of a humanitarian or humanitarian nature and character, and firefighting in Slovenia is also of exceptional importance in the field of events and activities in the Slovenian countryside. I think and I am sure that this is a specific feature and a feature of firefighting in Slovenia, because whoever knows the operation and pulse of life in the Slovenian countryside knows that this would be very difficult to imagine without firefighters. Firefighting is also an organisation that goes beyond what has been happening in Slovenia lately very often, that people are looking only at themselves, in their own backyard and that they are not interested in problems outside. Firefighters are those who care for both social and, of course, humanitarian activities and, of course, help their neighbors. Therefore, I believe that this activity in Slovenia needs different treatments and certain priority and, of course, some exceptional treatment. The financing of firefighting in Slovenia is regulated by a number of laws, but only on a formal level, and in fact we see that there are great difficulties in financing. The State has also prescribed mandatory equipment or equipment and equipment by regulation and, of course, training of firefighting units. Unfortunately, neither the State nor the local community generally do not ensure that firefighting organisations and societies can somehow meet these prescribed conditions, as regards equipment and everything. It seems important to me that, with these funds received from local communities, firefighters also collect much, more than 50 percent by voluntary contributions, donations and voluntary work. Therefore, and this is also the basic key and idea of this initiative, that it is completely pointless, that there are more than 50 per cent of the funds collected, in the end, which, of course, firefighters use to acquire the equipment they need, we tax with no idea how or the maximum tax rate. I believe that the State of Slovenia and, of course, this National Assembly could also go to these people, who are particularly interested in the fate of other people and in Slovenian property, at the expense of voluntary work, of course, and their own involvement and, of course, also their own exposure to risks, so that they can give these people and these organisations symbolic support and somehow give them a hand in order to enable them to obtain all these fire-fighting and rescue equipment more easily. I am convinced that a fire-fighting activity in the Slovenian space should also be considered at the cost level, thereby maintaining development and maintaining the existence and, of course, the development of this fire-fighting activity, as well as some better equipment for fire-fighting units, which would also contribute to greater efficiency. Therefore, the substance of this amendment is that the tax rate is reduced from 19% to 8% for the fire protection and rescue equipment prescribed. The second major amendment addressed by this amendment of the value added tax law concerns the specific situation of holders of words, images and sounds in the field of literature, art, science and education. The approximation of Slovenia to the European Union, as well as the increasing impact of globalisation on the satisfaction of cultural goods in the wider sense and on the education available to citizens on the market, requires that Slovenia pay particular attention to the competitiveness of such goods. These goods need to be selected in association negotiations with the European Union, including in the tax area. As the European Union gets closer and closer, the issue of Slovenian visibility and identity is at the forefront. Slovenian culture, especially the Slovenian book, remains and will in the future represent the content of this identity and will justify our natural integration into the union of free and equal nations. We have recently witnessed very drastic changes in publishing in Slovenia. We see that certain Slovenian most powerful houses dealing with publishing are abandoning and neglecting this activity, mainly because of the non-profit nature of this activity. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, the value of profits is essential to the value of identity and of the Slovenian country. For this reason, we believe that a special situation in this area in Slovenia should also be tackled with these symbols of Slovenian identity. This is also the basic idea of this second proposed amendment to the value added tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Cyril Pucko, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that proposal of the law, taking into account the opinion of the Government and the summary of the discussion, which focused on the question of the proposed solution concerning the reduction of the tax rate for firefighters, where it was expressed that any voluntary firefighters society did not necessarily carry out public fire safety services unless it had been trained to do so. Therefore, the proposed solution, which represents an unacceptable solution, in terms of the other social activities, would be the most reasonable refund on the part of the public finances, namely the one concluding the contracts, and these are the municipalities. As a rule, the necessary equipment is co-financed by public funds. However, account must also be taken of the fact that in the past a considerable amount of voluntary fund-raising has been spent on investments in inadequate equipment. The discussion also drew attention to the fact that local communities grant concessions by contracting voluntary firefighting companies to carry out a public fire protection service, although there is no statutory obligation for voluntary firefighting companies to carry out such a public service. The existing regulation of this issue is specific because of the Slovenian tradition. However, any local community can also address this issue differently and this would be more efficient and cheaper. At the conclusion of the debate, we have specifically pointed out that, following the consideration of the first amendment of the value added tax law on 11 April of this year, certain decisions have been adopted by the National Assembly in order to entrust the Government with the preparation of a systematic amendment to the applicable law by the end of this month, which expires tomorrow, in the articles setting out the rates and exemptions of value added tax. Two decisions were also adopted concerning the possibility of reducing or exempting the tax rate for fire and rescue equipment used by the public fire services and for voluntary firefighting vehicles and on the possibility of additional financing for the purchase of such equipment under the Ministry of Defence funds. In view of all of this, the Committee has decided not to adopt the law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law and is proposing this to the National Assembly, particularly because we will probably also hear the reasons why such a partial solution would not be the best in the Government's opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? You want, Mr. Darko Koncan, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed law amending and supplementing the value added tax law and proposes to the National Assembly that it reject it. This position is justified by the following. There is no way to challenge the opening statement of the bill's proposer that, of course, both activities involve very important social interests, objectives which would in some way be better achieved. However, unfortunately in all this, we must also take into account all the commitments already made by the Republic of Slovenia in the previous negotiations with the European Union. Both within the framework of the Association Agreement, where we have legally committed ourselves, and both within the framework of work area 10 on taxation, where we have in fact accepted our commitment to fully align our tax rules with the European guidelines by 31.12.2002 at the latest. Slovenia has decided on this matter in the following sense that this decision will be implemented in three steps. First, with the introduction of the value added tax itself, in 1999, in the second step of what we will propose in this next month to carry out the first revision of the value added tax law, and third step in order to fully and definitively implement, by 2002 at the latest, all those solutions relating to the area of intra-communal value added tax arrangements in order to be fully harmonised with the European tax regime. Also, these starting points, I must stress, have been fully confirmed by this National Assembly, so unfortunately there is no possibility of changing on our part any solution. In accordance with these guidelines, it is, of course, within the framework of the first substantive proposal, as regards the taxation of value-added goods in the case of fire and rescue equipment at a reduced rate, which is an exception to the general prescribed rate, that, of course, in the Annexes to the 6th Directive, this binding document, which I referred to earlier, in the area of value-added taxation, does not, in any case, take into account such solutions or such traffic of goods as would be able to be taxed at a reduced rate. The Directive also does not allow the application of the so-called zero tax rate. It is said that the so-called true exemption where taxpayers would have the right to charge the entry tax while at the same time calculating the value added tax at zero, which is essentially the right of exemption for these supplies of goods as mentioned by the bill's proposer in the proposal. So for the word bearers, the sound and the pictures. The implementation of such amendments or such solutions proposed by the proposer would be in total contravention of the international obligations that our country has undertaken so far and at the same time with all the systemic and theoretical solutions and principles on which the system of value added tax is based as a whole. For all these reasons, the government therefore opposes the proposed law amending and supplementing the value added tax law and proposes to the National Assembly that it reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ferri Horvat and Mr Ivan Mamić first took the floor. Mr Ferri Horvat, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! In the parliamentary group, we strongly agree with what is written in the draft law on the assessment of the situation, the reasons and the objectives of the law, and, of course, what the proposaler, Ambassador Vizjak, said in the introduction. In particular, we believe that the content proposals are not disputed for us, even if I will tell you in the end, I think that even for the field of firefighting there could be a more favourable option, not only a reduction in the rate, but also an exemption in relation to what the directives say, if I understand them correctly or am reading them on the basis of an elaboratory prepared by the research centre of the National Assembly. I don't think we need to be convinced at all about the meaning of firefighting, the meaning of this activity, which is not only valuable, but more than necessary. If you remember, we have supported firefighting, either with amendments, with the support of amendments or in other ways, as a group of Members and individual Members, every year. I myself, no matter what I've been doing, which jobs I've been on in my life, have always been not only a sympathizer, but also actively supporting the actual firework. The same applies to the second area proposed by the law in order to even give a zero rate for the holders of words, images and sounds in the field of literature, art, science and education. Although this is once again a question if this is not in conflict with the directive, which provides for a reduction in the rate here and not a zero rate. However, this raises several questions on which answers also lead us to believe that it is not the most appropriate solution to the adoption of this law to solve these two problems, and there are other problems. Remember when we had the debate, the last debate on the amendments and additions to the VAT law, that a number of other proposals had been made, in the field of school and other proposals. Let me give some arguments for this view that this is not the most appropriate way. We believe that there is a need for comprehensive and thorough consideration of changes in VAT rates as well as the financing of firefighting organisations or their activities. That's what Pucka was talking about when he reported on behalf of the Finance Committee. Because we are aware that the actual financing of the fire operation is not satisfactorily resolved or sufficient funds are not provided for this activity. However, when we are talking about finding a more suitable, more comprehensive solution, we cannot help but say that, as I have already mentioned, there are other areas of VAT that are considered worthy and where there are proposals for a reduction in the rate or also an exemption that we cannot go beyond what the Government points out to be disregarded by the European Union directives and the international obligations we have with regard to the VAT system, exemptions and reduced rates. And we can't, after all, even if we're honest and realistic, beyond the financial consequences. It is true that this bill states that this law will not require any additional funds in the budget - this is one part of the truth - but that the failure, whatever relief or even relief, will then require additional resources from other taxpayers or from other tax sources. So we have to pour ourselves some pure wine here, but I don't use it as an argument against, say, firefighting; just to point out that we don't say anything that's not true. The second argument that this law is not a suitable way to resolve these problems is the decision of the National Assembly of 11.4. when we also discussed these contents and then I myself proposed a decision adopted by the Committee unanimously, only one vote against and 35 votes against - i.e. a proposal by the Government to draft a law amending and supplementing the VAT law by the end of June - precisely in articles relating to reduced rates and exemptions. In its opinion, in the last paragraph, the Government shall ensure that this proposal is taken into account and that it prepares this proposal for amendments and additions. I think it is appropriate for us to wait for this proposal and then, in fact, decide on the purposes for which we will adopt reduced rates and exemptions. And the third argument - I have mentioned it at the outset - shows the relation to the specific proposal itself, where the exemptions should be and where the rates should be reduced. If I understand the Sixth Directive correctly, it provides the opposite: in books and similar, it allows reduced rates and exemptions for activities of public interest, and this is certainly a fire-fighting activity. This would be more consistent then, in my opinion, with the Directives, even if we are looking at this research centre study on page four, where it lists the conditions in the four indents for exemption. I think the firefighter's organization meets all these conditions. By making this solution more correct from this formal point of view and materially for firefighters, because they would actually gain more with exemption than with a reduction in the rate. In view of all of this, I propose, or it is our view that we do not support this law, but that we wait for the government to present the proposal it is preparing, and then, as soon as possible, we try to find suitable solutions through that law for what the proposer stands for and for something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go. Mr. Horvat, could you please turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you. Hello, all present. Is it procedural or what? Members of New Slovenia support the proposal to reduce VAT on firefighting equipment and books. Following the amendment of the value added tax law, the proposed introduction of a lower, 8% tax rate for fire-fighting and rescue equipment and the introduction of a 10% tax rate for books, word carriers, images, sounds, etc. What we've already heard from the speakers in front of me today, the situation looks bad. At best, the law will enter into force or be implemented in about two years' time - as an optimist I will say so. Which means it can happen during this time, I don't know what. However, it is not assured that the fire companies will, during this time, acquire something with this law, which, if supported, they will acquire. So I don't trust him too much. I think this thing gets rid of itself as soon as possible. I can use the word "preventive." We must be aware that fire-fighting voluntary societies not only carry out public service in relation to fire-safety, but are often also at the heart of social life in the Slovenian countryside. Many minority fire companies are in an extremely difficult material situation. Reducing the tax rate would make it easier for them to restore obsolete equipment. That's actually field data. Because I've been following these things for a long time, and I've also been in the municipal headquarters of civil protection, or I've been here to rescue from the rubble, but we've worked closely with the firefighters. And I've known their plight for years, and I fully support them. And even if this proposal were accepted, we would still have too little and their problem would not be solved. So I can say for specific cases from my own environment where voluntary firefighting companies are still unable to obtain the most necessary rescue equipment with the means envisaged. Such a fire policy puts the government at risk for firefighters who are willing on a purely voluntary basis to save lives and material goods. We know that human life is priceless, and that Mr Ferri has pointed out very well that there is no point in even talking about it. I therefore appeal to each of you to support a reduction in the tax burden on the firefighting equipment used by the firefighting companies. If I say what I said about the data being from the field, that's it. For example, specifically for the Vipavska Valley, I believe that there are such problems in other parts of Slovenia, we are firefighters from the Vipavska Valley by air in the immediate vicinity of Crassus. For Crassus, we know how exposed he is when there are fires, so if I say in quotes, "in the fire season", and if they want to help before they come from the Vipava Valley to Crassus, they lose so much time because of the poor equipment, not least because of the bad ways - well, it's a matter of traffic, but the problem is complex. And before help comes from the Vipava Valley to the Com, which is very close, it can burn half of the Comna. I am aware that VAT should be as neutral as possible. This means that the introduction of a single tax rate would be the most appropriate from the point of view of the Minister of Finance. Taxes, however, are not exclusively aimed at fiscal objectives, but also at social and economic and other social objectives. Therefore, reduced tax rates or exemptions have been imposed in certain areas. It is important that we set priorities, because wider social interests can also be pursued through tax reliefs. I've already mentioned it before. I am deeply convinced that these priorities include the acquisition of fire-fighting equipment for the needs of fire-fighting companies. Experience in recent years tells us that it is purely an exercise that can only be handled through other levers, such as subsidies, grants, fees and the like. Such instruments simply do not produce the desired results. Therefore, they should also be supported by tax reliefs. Certainly, however, our tax system will not collapse because firefighting companies will buy firefighting equipment at a reduced rate. The fact that, in many countries of the European Union, VAT rates are lower than those in Slovenia also speaks of this. We also have to calculate what is worth - is it worth burning, say, a factory because the funds were scarce? It is also absurd for fire companies to raise more than half of the necessary funds through voluntary contributions and donations [[That's about 900 million SIT.]] then they have to pay 19% of the VAT. So, how much did they get? Well, if it's a donation at all, we could ask ourselves. The large ruling coalition has the opportunity to contribute to more equitable regional development by adopting the proposed tax incentives. Tax incentives in the area of leprechaun are urgently needed to preserve the Slovenian language, which is one of the foundations of Slovenian identity. So much for the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Valentin Pohorec will present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. It is not long before an amendment to this law was tabled on behalf of the Fire Union of Slovenia. This amendment was quite a broad debate, it received broad opinions and support that the matter must be resolved somehow in Slovenia. However, as we were then given an explanation and even today, only this reduced tax rate is not an exclusive solution. At that time, the National Assembly, by a majority of votes, adopted the rejection of the amendment and adopted certain decisions. First of all, I expect these conclusions to come to fruition in some way. This is what I expect from the government and from all other competent services. And when that hasn't cooled down, we have a new amendment, the same content. I don't want to judge the political motives of this. However, I find it inappropriate that some have used that vote the last time and notified all the fire companies in Slovenia, all the district fire liaisons, who voted in any way. At least I find this politically distasteful, although I am also one of the officials in this organization. And if I discuss otherwise today, I hope that this debate will not be sent to all firefighters in Slovenia tomorrow. At that time, I agreed after this debate, and I also agree today with the explanation of the proposal, which was tabled at the time and today by the Chairman of the Finance Committee and by Mr Končan as a representative of the government. I want and expect the government to come up with the right solutions. I judge, after examining all these arguments, which were given at the time and today, that firefighting needs a suitable way of financing the acquisition of its equipment, even though this will pay the tax to the State as it is being paid, including all others, mountain rescuers, cavemen, red cross, eventually the military and police, who are all operating in the defence, protection and rescue system. We must therefore find a solution to the adequate financing of voluntary firefighting, including professional firefighting, in the sense that the organiser is a public service, that they have a contract to do so, that they are organised according to the government's accepted orders, which speaks of organisation and equipment, that it is a matter of fund equipment with these orders, without inventing anything, we fill the garages, and then it costs maintenance and all that, so that we act in accordance with the system adopted. We have a law on protection against natural and other disasters, we have a law on fire safety, we have a law on firefighting, we have a law on law enforcement. If anything needs to be changed here, let us change this, otherwise let us follow a system that should apply to this country. I really expect, and that was when I got some oral, I would say, satisfaction from the Minister himself, Mr Rob, let us give in 2002 - because the budget was then just before the reception - to find a suitable solution to the problems facing today's situation, but in accordance with this system. So I won't be long and I won't say it again. Although I agree with all that Mr Vizjak has explained, and Mr Ferri Horvat has given his support, I agree with that, too, but as a Member, I want us to treat all issues in this country in a manner that is somehow the same and in accordance with the laws, regulations and fair, to all of the same principles. So I expect first of all the realisation of those conclusions of our National Assembly to see how and what will happen. There was also the main issue that firefighters also pay tax on voluntary funds. When they invest in the purchase of basic funds, they must pay this tax, i.e. also from that address. The decision has also been adopted in this regard. I expect that this debate will not be sent to all voluntary firefighters of Slovenia tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The bill was a comment, and it would probably be a very short, clear point of view now. This bill is harmful in its content and should not be supported. Harmful, its implementation would be detrimental to both the public finance system and the users to which it is intended. I have to make this very clear. Therefore, the application of this law is completely unconstitutional from the point of view of the public finances system, as we have adopted it. I will not repeat the details only by saying that the application of the reduced rate intended for, say, firefighters should refer to the rates charged on the entry page, which are completely inconsistent with the purpose stated by the applicant in this part of the proposal. Why is it harmful to fire this thing? It is therefore harmful because it takes time to deal with those instruments to support firefighting that are earned by firefighting and that are feasible within the framework of the system that we have in this country. This needs to be made clear. This law, in other words, laws take time and cast sand into the eyes, but they are in a certain direction, of course, logical. The logical proposals of the laws that go into that part, into that drawer, which means we can also abolish taxes, end this, end this, and these things can seem to be heard well, but of course they are completely unrealistic and impossible. I find a slightly more professionally consistent part that speaks of zero rates, but it is probably unacceptable for quantitative reasons, and it is also possible to find better solutions here to address this problem. Therefore, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, I strongly recommend the non-admission of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Vizjak will present the opinion of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much again. [[...]] [[It's not on, it's not understandable.]] This proposal for the amendment of the law, in particular for the following reasons. [[...]] I'm not going to repeat myself, and I'm not going to talk about the meaning of firefighting anyhow, what I've already said here today. But I'm going to touch, I'd say, the way and the possibilities of solving this problem that we've all commented on here. Contrary to some of the representatives of the coalition's parliamentary groups who have just said that this is not a suitable way to make other ways more appropriate, we have now tried three ways in the Social Democratic Party. All these three ways have been condemned if they're inconsistent, that they're harmful to firefighting, and I don't know what else. None of this saved coalition said what the right way was. This is the right way to somehow realize and, of course, also help firefighting. Let me wake up a little bit. In the Social Democratic Party, we have submitted amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of increasing the item to the relevant institutions, and representatives of the coalition have been told that this will not reach the right ones and that this money will go to others, etc. Then we tried to increase the funds going in the local community, also in order to ensure adequate financing of firefighting through local communities. Those amendments were, too, if it wasn't the right way to spend that money on anything but this. Now there's a third, there's a third attempt to help fire at some cost level, and he's even convicted that this way is harmful to firefighting - from colleague Kavčič - and to throw sand in the eyes. Just because we wanted to know how the firefighters looked at this system, we asked for their opinion. I must tell you that a number of companies and associations have responded and, last but not least, the Firefighters' Association of Slovenia, which was on the Plenum of the Firehouse, on 19.5.2001 on Igu, discussed the financial report and the work programme of the organisation and found that the financial situation of the firefighter organization has deteriorated in the last period and that the operational readiness of the firefighter units has been seriously compromised and the firefighting and rescue equipment is rapidly ageing and is subject to provisions, with these additional tax burdens becoming even more inaccessible to firefighters. We need to know that with the introduction of value added tax, this equipment has risen from 5 per cent to 19 per cent. I don't know if the gentlemen and LDS representative who spoke here, Mr. Kavčič, thinks that firemen are so incompetent that they can't assess what's good for them and what's bad for them. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Mr Vizjak, allow me to remind you that the presentation of the opinions of the groups of Members is not intended for replication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I comment solely on why we support this amendment of the law in the Social Democratic Party. For this reason, I stress that this is a third attempt, how to finance these organisations, how to update their equipment and, of course, how to carry out this mission more effectively, which, I stress, is of a humanitarian nature. With regard to non-compliance with the directives of the European Union, I am putting myself in the following position: if the Republic of Slovenia was able to elect and task negotiators to choose a transitional period for excise duty on cigarettes that will approach the prescribed tax rates during the transitional period, I believe that the argument of firefighting and Slovenian books is significantly more important for our country and also for our citizens. Therefore, I believe that our negotiators could be in charge of electoraling transitional periods for these areas, and at this time in a comprehensive manner, systematically address this issue. I agree with many, and we also agree in the Group of Members that this instrument is probably not a systemicly long-term instrument and does not provide some long-term solution to this problem. Surely, however, we are aware that, in view of the burning situation in the fire and all the firefighting organisations, there is an urgent need to do something immediately and effectively. That is what we see the meaning and purpose of this novel, and we also support this novel in this regard. Because that we will not destroy what we have, and that we will at least somehow ensure development towards a systemic solution, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the debate of Members to be discussed below is limited to five minutes. First he raised his hand, Mr Rudolf Petan, then Mr Marshich. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! This law governs two very specific areas. I'll limit myself to one thing, that's in the field of firefighters. The primary task of volunteer firefighters is to prevent, and I will start with prevention, but I will end with the other one, including the basic part, which is to carry out operational activities. The fact is, somehow man cannot prevent the morbidity of nature and cannot influence the fact that nature would not relax its forces. It is true, though, that by means of one’s bridely activity, one can do more to help natural disasters and to free one’s forces even when one does not, if one does not help. It seems normal for us to call 112 on such occasions, and help is somehow provided in the event of natural disasters, even when we lock ourselves in the apartment and accidentally lose the key. Even then this system works, this system works, but it has to be acknowledged that this system of voluntary firefighting also has a long tradition in Slovenia, over 130 years old, and it is still and thank God it is reliable. He is confident that not everyone can become a member of this association, but he must, of course, take the test, have the appropriate knowledge, and examine this knowledge each year. And, of course, that's why he does some schooling. Many, especially in rural areas, also go beyond the scope of this general activity, but since firefighting is also the only organised organisation that is also a source and a condition for some social activity in smaller areas. I admit that if this reduced rate proposed for the purchase of fire extinguishers equipment is not accepted, the system will not fail. I agree. The fact is that this system has survived many systems, but from monarchy, the kingdom, socialism and even today, it still works. It is said that he is converted into our social consciousness, he has roots in humans. The fact is that we have two hegemonics, which have somehow sealed our nation, is Austria and Italy, and here we see exactly how much the state has dedicated to this system of fire protection and protection. At least at the beginning in the area covered by Austria, but I do not want to praise it, this system is much more committed and, of course, more firefighters are essential. The fact is that some countries that have had a well-organised fire protection system have completely destroyed this system, I can mention Croatia, and I will not mention why. The fact is that this system worked well, new requirements were always emerging, as the technique developed, firefighting always had to use new methods and, of course, more and more knowledge. And somehow they've always mated well, and that's why, of course, they need some support. The fact is that this system works primarily on volunteering. With the arrival of the market economy in our society, of course, this system is in place, the system of volunteering is in place, everyone wants to have some payment for it, but this system is still working on volunteering and therefore needs to be supported as long as possible. The time will probably come when volunteering will no longer be possible and, of course, no one will want to do it for free, especially if it helps others. In doing so, of course, people who operate in this system spend a lot of time getting new knowledge, maintaining the facilities they have at their disposal, and, of course, never ask when it is necessary to help, but how much someone will pay. Of course, they are happy with all the voluntary contributions, and they too must follow the development of technology. That's why, of course, this system needs equipment. Paying taxes on purchased equipment, and that's what people just don't understand. Not a lot of verbal support, the only support is such, not verbally necessary, but only the law has to be supported or given funds in one way or another. We're not saying it's the best system, you can find someone else. However, not only is it a waste of time, but it does not make better proposals. We have made one of the proposals and therefore we ask, of course, for support. Let me finish because I'm running out of time. I'll be done with operational activity. I'm coming from the cell. There have been some major fires here lately that have had catastrophic consequences. Look in Gorenje. Not to mention what happened, Rogaška burned down, the key facility, and the Termes in Unior in Zreč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Yes, I do. I don't need to be convinced by any additional fires that help is needed. If the help wasn't what it was, the consequences would be catastrophic. That's why I'm calling on everyone to support this marriage. Of course, if you make even better suggestions, we will be happy and we will support them. I will support this law and ask others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I have to say that I support the work of firefighters, both professional and voluntary. Their role is certainly well - known and their significance undeniable. However, I draw attention to some of the shortcomings related to the financing of these public fire services and use the term public fire services, but not so much to tax exemptions as to the financing systems in the local communities themselves. The Government has laid down a regulation on the minimum provision of equipment and organisation in these fire services in local communities. The fire department ordered standardization. I regret to note, however, that the individual local communities, on the proposals of the firefighting organisations themselves, accept organisations and equipment that do not comply with these criteria, nor in accordance with standardisation. Clearly, the mayor often adopts this decision on the basis of the proposal of the firefighters themselves, and he doesn't even know what he is accepting, but then, of course, the following year comes: "The Mayor, you have taken a decision and now provide us with funds". Here is the basic problem, in the fragmentation of our municipalities, in under-budgets, in determining non-discriminatoryly that all firefighter societies or the majority of firefighters' associations are public firefighters' services, in that they are themselves outside of standardisation and out-of-criminals purchasing rich firefighting equipment, which is often not needed in such an extent and in such a quality and then, of course, there is no money in the budget, but not always on the fault of the firefighters and firefighters' organisations themselves, often on the basis of the fault of municipal councils that accept budgets on a proposal from the mayor who do not provide sufficient funds for 100% financing of the public fire service in these items. Of course, because they then gladly leave the additional provision to voluntary firefighters who have to beg for the money they receive and, clearly, there is a lot of dissatisfaction here. I say that, however, there is a lot of manipulation by the mayors, by which their weakness in the provision of public fire services within budgets then attempts through small doors to continue to reduce taxes and so on, to acquire additional funds and to facilitate the budgets of the municipalities. The public fire department must be financed as well as public utilities, as well as water supply and so on, meaning 100% of the provision. And first, the mayors have to take care of it themselves. A lot of times, this is where the funds come in. In addition, let me stress the hypertrophy of the fire organisation itself; no one wants to go into this because it is a large organisation, because there are 120,000 firefighters, they all have family members and it is something other than a firefighter's organisation. I think that we should not leave the equipment to the firefighting organisations themselves, so that we should consistently respect the standardisation set here by the firefighters' association of Slovenia in agreement with the Minister and the Administration for Protection and Rescue, and the problems would be significantly smaller. Believe me, in Slovenia, "big money" flows into firefighters' organisations. According to estimates we heard on the Defence Committee, about 3 billion tolars a year. It's not "little money." I think we should also consider trying to professionalise firefighting to a large extent. Volunteering, of course, has its own tradition, it goes on to be nurtured, but it is necessary to professionalise this activity and to think about finding a place in future regions to organise a firefighter's organisation at regional level. Finally, I am in favour of respecting the agreement we have reached in the National Assembly to take a comprehensive approach to tax exemptions. There are a number of other problems, donations problems. We directly tax donations, including foreign donations coming in, and donors simply withdraw. So I think that together with what I have said and with the view that we will have practically more at this meeting - and I conclude with this - the National Assembly, I hope, a debate on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters and we will discuss more thoroughly the organisation, equipment and financing of this service. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I ask the distinguished colleague and colleague politely not to turn the debate that is being held now into a general debate on firefighting in our country. We have before us a technical law with three articles which, of course, speaks of a reduction in the rate of taxes. By politely asking that we stick to the bill, because all the debates are now going towards a general debate on the situation of firefighting in our country. Thank you very much. Next, Mr Jerovšek responded to the replica. So are you with the replica, then Mr. Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I want to replicate Mr. Marshich. In his performance, when he strongly defined himself against the fact that fire protection could be purchased at a reduced tax rate, he used something, in my opinion, unacceptable thesis or rather "weird" thesis. Small municipalities and mayors are to blame for the situation as it is in firefighting. The mayors, these mayors who do not have a hearing about firefighting and do not purposely allocate sufficient resources to the public service. If I know, he's coming from Cyprus, I'd like to ask him how he is in Cyprus, because they don't have small congregations there. This means that in the parish congregation, however, the fires of a society are full of little money. Your mayor must have covered everything, of course, the expectations of the fire companies. The parishioners, yes. I'm sure she covered all the expectations of the fire companies. The way you put it here, Mr. Marshich, I take it as a misunderstanding. I could not expect a misunderstanding about the activities of firefighters’ societies, voluntary firefighters’ societies. In fact, it may not be clear to you, but I say, and my thesis is that these normal municipalities, which are in a normal sense, also have significantly more hearing about voluntary fire-fighting activities, that mayors and voluntary fire-fighting companies work hand in hand to hand in solving local and municipal issues. And this works exemplaryly. Of course, I am sure that every mayor would also like to make a substantial amount of money available to his firefighter society. But you're in power, make sure the mayors have more money, and they'll also delegate it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Petan also responded to the replica, then Mr Marsich again. Mr Juban, Mr Zląbec and Mr Drobnic are waiting for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. So, I think we should have a general debate here, too, because we will have this opportunity in the autumn when we organise such a debate in the light of the decision of the Defence Committee. However, he replicated Mr. Marshich, but more than a supplement than a replica. True, I cannot agree that the fragmentation of the congregations has helped. Indeed, this has nothing to do with the legality of the accident, as it is said, the accident never rests - already the Slovenian proverb says so. This is said, even if we break or unite congregations, the disaster never rests. But I have to give him the right one when he says that a lot of society doesn't take into account the standardization of equipment and buy equipment that they really don't need. I agree. However, it must also be acknowledged that this has become less and less in the past, and less and less today. However, I cannot agree with him when he says that firefighting societies should act voluntarily as a public service, just like public utilities. I know he didn't mean it like that. 'Cause I'm pretty sure some kind of garbage truck can't be compared to a public fire service. Because if one day you take out the trash too late, it's not going to be particularly pleasant, but if the job that's in charge of fire protection is five minutes late or one minute late, it could be a disaster. I know he didn't mean it, but I just want to remind him. But I was surprised by his claim - I think I understood him correctly - that we should also have a solution in the direction of professionalisation. I think they tried to do this in a neighbouring country, Croatia, but it happened that they completely destroyed the fire protection system. In a place where I am also active in firefighters, we have contacts with some societies with neighbouring countries when they come to our meetings, so much so that they do not get tears when they see how things are with us and how they are now. That's what happened to them sometimes. They've completely destroyed the system of voluntary firefighting. Now they are aware of this error, but I think that - and they themselves acknowledge - despite trying to restore this volunteerism to their feet, it will probably never work. Because what you destroy once is very difficult to fix. I would also say that the exemption or reduction of value added tax from a lower level is nothing that Europe would not know. In Europe, countries have different levels, including two, not just one, and this is particularly important, they know, and also in European countries, a zero rate, especially when it comes to humanitarian activities. It is true that firefighting does not have the status of humanitarian activity in our country, I agree with that. However, efforts are being made in this direction so that firefighting, which is indeed a humanitarian activity, will receive this status. We will probably have to say something else about it today, though there is no time for it, because it is not the subject of this law either. However, it will also be necessary to think in this direction, given that some have reminded you that this is a waste of time and that thinking is needed in a different direction. That's my answer to what you didn't give, and yet you said it was a waste of time, and you didn't give any other forms. We'll probably have to talk about that. I believe that the solution we have proposed is one of the possible, one of the possible. But it is true that if we look strictly from a financial point of view, then we are running out of something on one side, but, gentlemen, I ask you, is the damage that I mentioned earlier, in Gorenje, in Rogaška, in Unior Zreče, in Toplice, really so small that it cannot be covered by what would be reduced in our VAT budget register? I think it's quite the opposite that this tax deficit would have come back on us many times if I only had those three fires in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Petan, your implementation was only in the first minute of the replica, the next four minutes was a re-debate, which has been repeated since before. I do not wish to be rude, but I ask you very much to limit ourselves to the proposal for a law that we have before us, or during the five-minute implementation of the honourable colleagues who will debate, I will warn you that they are entering the general debate on firefighting. Mr. Marshich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. For this very reason, Madam Vice-President, I will prepare an answer to Mr Jerovsk at the point, as I mentioned earlier, when we will consider the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, where such answers and such discussions are the place.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very happy with fire companies, and I would agree that these societies may need some help. The equipment they buy today is much more expensive than it used to be. It is also true that there is much too much, especially because nature and the extent of fires have changed, and this is another story that should have gone somewhere else. However, with regard to the law itself and the way in which VAT is dealt with in the field of firefighting, I consider that the law is not introduced for the purpose of reducing VAT with it, but that it is made for this reason, colleague Vizjak, that the law would not be adopted. By the way, as already mentioned by colleague Pohorec, when Member Pukšič sends to all fire companies with a comment on the VAT vote, I think it is a demagogue. And in the same way, colleague Vizjak sends a message to all firefighters, "I have introduced the VAT reduction law that we are considering today, please provide me with your opinion on this law". Please, what is this other way to gain fire companies for some other needs or interests! And, of course, if we adopt the law, forget the story in half a year, but with the equipment of the fire companies, VAT will be paid as much as the tax would have been accepted, and in the next period as it is in politics, of course, this would no longer be discussed. Unless we adopt a law, this story can be discussed at least until the next election. Any fire company that will supply equipment can receive a greeting from a political party, where it will say, "we wanted to lower your VAT, but you paid a million tolars for a fire truck more because the ruling coalition or the MPs, Geza Juban and the others, were opposed to VAT" as it had already written in the letter of greeting to all firefighters. The way I see it seems unfair and unacceptable. If this is how we work, then this nation will be led a little bit by the nose, and such a way, including the administration of the country, is not good. We will not help fire companies in this way, either, because this is not the solution to the problems of firefighting and their procurement, the cheaper purchase of equipment that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Maybe that's it. Comrade Pohorec, you asked me not to send the magnetograms back to the fire department. As far as I'm concerned, you can send my magnetogram to all the fire department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would answer my colleague only in the part where he mentioned me. Look. My job as a member of the National Assembly is not to exercise some of my own interests here or anything else, but to promote the interests of the people, particularly those who have chosen me. For this purpose, I have no intention of proposing and representing anything that people do not support. To this end, you also understand my initiative, which I have signed and sent to the fire department, what they think about this matter. If they support her, I will support her myself, and I will push her forward, if not, but not. Here today we have heard that this matter is harmful to them, and I do not know what else to do, that the solution is inappropriate, bad and I do not know what to do, and that it should be done differently. Please suggest and implement - you are a ruling coalition - in a different way. We in the Social Democratic Party have tried to do so, both in the debate and amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and in part in this proposed amendment to the law. This letter, which has been sent to you again, has been sent solely because of whether these people who serve this novel support it or not. Not with someone, as you have concluded, a demagogic purpose. Sorry, that was my purpose. Now, if you believe that, you believe that if you don't, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Zląbec applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd say so. If the National Assembly wants to build on the anger of Slovenian intellectuals, it is obstinately on the best path. Only Slovenian intellectuals are a handful, as we have heard, but firefighters and their family members there are about half a million and for half a million votes it is worth doing. Apparently, we are living in a postmodern time where fireflies have become clearly Slovenian cultural syndrome and I suggest that the country adopt the St. Florian Assembly as a protector. Some Members spoke about the books in a twin with firefighters, by giving the books about 10 times or 20 times less space and time. Feri Horvat said that it was impossible to lower VAT on books and sound carriers to nothing because it would be a loss of income. This seems unbearable cynicism to me, given how different interest groups - I will just count them: farmers, travelers, doctors, judges - are blackmailing the budget like Erasmus Predjamski, and most of the time they achieve their own. The books are supposed to be, according to Ferius Horvath, a European directive. It's a pure fiction. In Britain, which holds half the world by means of its books, the VAT rate is zero. Of the 15 members of the European Union and the 12 candidates of the European Union, 27 countries are said to be only Malta and Estonia, which are linguistically smaller than Slovenia. To whom in the European Union will he direct, to whom he will harm the level of nothing for the Slovenian book, if we know that except in Slovenia it is so and so, and in return in part, no one reads it anyway. The principle of all these things is seen in the fact that the National Assembly favoured the non-closure of the PCP for three years, even though a clear promise was made by the Slovenian State, the Slovenian government, that this would happen in 1998. There's nothing about books. Slovenian publishing is dying in a living body, and at the moment when we have the Internet, when we have 50 different TV channels, where 90 percent of the films we watch are English or American, is that pastor who deserves only a mention with two sentences in the dozens of members who "spray" fire stories after this House. I must say that I am very disappointed in this Parliament that we have 50 firefighter specialists, and not one of them was before me to put the book in a defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I've seen a lot of hands, let me figure out who wants to replicate. Mr Drobnič, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Sušnik, Mr Kremjar, Mr Partljič and Mr Tsukjat spoke to the debate. I'm asking who wants to replicate and to whom. Sir, yes, the Evil One wants to replicate Mrs. Montenegro and Mr. Horvat, including replicas. Mr Partljič, Mr Petan, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Sorry, I am not going, I will go in line, first Mrs Silva Montenegro, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Unfortunately, Mr Zląbec does not know that we have already talked a lot about value added tax in this National Assembly and that a consultation has been organised to which the members of the Government, Mr Končan and his assistant have come, and that we have devoted a total of four hours of this issue and that of these four hours only the book, the Slovenian book, has been dedicated, let's say, for one fifth of the time, and that Mr Končan has also said that the government is preparing some fundamental changes to the law in this area. That, of course, the law would change in two stages. However, because I am as distrustful as you are, Mr Jaša Zląbec, and I have always and will also say a few words about value added tax, especially the Slovenian book, because 8% is much more than it has been before or before the introduction of value added tax, 5%. And I also demanded that the government and the Ministry of Culture do a comprehensive analysis and determine the effects of the value added tax on the Slovenian book and publishing. Today we find that Slovenian publishing has great difficulties, that actual publishing is slowly failing and that we will have to devote more space to this problem, especially to books, in the National Assembly, especially the agenda, and not like this, at the edge of firefighting, because we know that firefighting is stronger - you yourself have said why and what trends. So I just had to replicate that we are in this area in the National Assembly - and probably will be a colleague of Lydia Majnikov's - for the book we always know how to say; but Partljič, I see, raises his hand, so I believe that there is something here that we will say and we will be fighting for the book until the end of the day in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I repeat to my colleague Jashi; I don't like to replicate, but, like it or not, he framed me for something I didn't say. [[can look at the magnetogram]] . I cited the material prepared by the research sector of the National Assembly on the topic "Review of Book Taxation in the European Union". From this review comes - I have paper in front of me, Comrade Yaša, look at him if you haven't looked at him. - that a lower tax rate is possible [[lists point 6 of Annex H where the books are listed]] . And I have linked this to the proposal that the bill proposes to be a zero rate. This does not mean that I have expressed my personal attitude towards what this rate should be or whether it will be any degree whatsoever. I'm inclined to make it lower or even null if you want me to give you my opinion. Secondly, what comes after all from this paper - I hope it is true that government representatives may have more up-to-date information - on page 4 is a table showing the VAT rates for books across the European Union, and we see in fact that only Ireland has zero rates, while the other countries have a range of 3 to - Denmark even 25 if this data is accurate because it is surprising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. To the replica, if I saw it correctly, Mr. Petan answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating Mr. Evil. But I'd start with the data, so I'd be more specific. We have heard earlier that firefighters are supposed to be about 3 billion per year, in Slovenia, about one way or another. Your Honor, allow me to remind you. Unrecovered taxes, real ones, those that are real, those that are possible, are about 50 billion. That means 18 years to finance firefighters. That's not what we recovered. This is for starters, and now we're moving on. Mr Zląbec said he was disappointed over, I don't know if he used a direct number, how many Members wrote a lot about firefighters and just a little bit about the book. That is the case, and in the second article, we have proposed a reduction or elimination of the added value rate for books, as Mr Zląbec said. That's what he says. He's disappointed in us. How, then, should he be disappointed with the majority who are opposed to providing more favorable conditions for the book if he is already so disappointed in us? Let him consider who he is more disappointed with now. Then it's about the size or the scope of the words. He said the book was only for a little bit, two lines or what. Dear Mr Zląb, with all due respect, I must tell you that not everything is in the size and number of words. We don't need any words if we're going to make this work better if we're going to give more resources to survive. We don't have to talk at all, let's just vote and we'll eliminate the value added tax for the book and we don't have to discuss anything, and we're going to be helping this activity a lot. But if we talk a lot, we'll vote against it, then we'll hurt ourselves, and then we can be disappointed. It's not about words, it's about concrete support. That's what I was gonna say. Of course, I give you a perfectly legitimate right to have an opinion, which I am not discussing. I just want to correct your content and, of course, remind you once again of what matters and what doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek also reported on the replica earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I am grateful to Mr Evil Man for taking over as an ex-writer, or I do not know if he is still active, even for the fact that books, paintings and so, are exempt from value added tax. However, in doing so, the Members who are advocating a reduced level of firefighting equipment have been "set on" to help the firefighters. I don't know, it's on the verge of some division. I expected him to support both activities, both for the benefit of the people. And it seems to me that the worst attack, but the worst thing he said was that we try to get together, create the hatred of intellectuals, is actually achieved in this way, as it were at the state celebration of the day, the 10th anniversary of independence. In fact, 100 million were spent there, which was practically for culture. For some show that's anti-propaganda. That the whole of Slovenia should be appalled. Yesterday, the culturers went to the studio at 5:00 p.m. And that's assault, that's what makes hate. In fact, this is where, according to some client preferences, a director is selected, who we know is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Mr Jerovšek, I'm sorry, I don't want to be rude, I also received your criticism yesterday, really, we're in the value added tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	That's one area. And second. Look, logically, the Members come quite a bit from - as you Ljubljanans say - from the province and there we have the fires of society, but we do not have production houses. I think you can do the most here because in your group there are the most Ljubljanans, but here this activity is very developed, and that all of them are in line to support this as well. In this respect, in our law, I think that we have set even one line more on this area, that is to say the cultural field, the fire field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban also addressed the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Comrade Vizjak, at no time did I even think, not to say that this is harmful to firefighters. But the way in which such problems are handled seems inappropriate for Members and can be harmful. In fact, we have dealt with value added tax in some other way where the matter did not "go through" and, of course, in this case, everyone in this country could have invented and introduced a law, once for each other and then sent mail: we care for you, we are the only righteous in this country. Comrade Bajuk has also tabled an amendment to this law, and it is to be expected that he will now send mail to all children or their parents, as this amendment has been adopted or not adopted. It's an unusual thing. For example, when we are a country of referendums, perhaps the most successful referendum would be where we would call for the possibility of eliminating taxes in this country. Every time we talk about how to distribute - there are many of us, and we are among those - resources, we are always and again running out of everything when we say; "to whom we cut it off now". No, it doesn't matter, it's a country, and this country, God knows who it's from. We're not Members of Parliament by chance to take care of her. At least one of them didn't. And that way, I don't think it's good, but it's harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Tone Partljič also addressed the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	I will use the Institute of Replica to -- because I didn't mean to go to the debate -- briefly, however, I will say something and use the debate of my fellow Member, Mr Jaš Evil. If the replica is to be explained or expressed, to what you disagree or to say that the statement was not correct, the only thing I would hold back is that it is not possible that we were quite barefoot in the discussion of VAT. If I remember correctly when we adopted the law, I am at the end of Mr Gaspari's speech and my fellow Members were mostly for tax, with Janez Kopač at the head: I remember myself, with Mr Sovic and convincing Mr Gaspari, when he also promised under this pressure that the first year for the disturbances that would arise in the publishing industry would be reserved funds, I think they were 900,000, and then they were distributed by some key publishers. So the replica is to say that maybe we weren't exactly that barefoot. Otherwise, I fully support the discussion by my fellow Evil One, and I must say that it is proof that it is of quality, including how we have responded to it now. He would comment only in what he said from Europe, in Croatia they introduced, as you know, 22% of VAT, and in fact in one year and a half they destroyed the book and now there is a zero rate to fix it in some way. Jase’s replica also makes sense that we are prepared with regard to the vocabulary, in particular the intellectual part, which continues to write us the hours of truth, to refer to this Slovenian word, to the Slovenian book, as it justifies us, and we have not actually talked about this here, except in libraryism, and we are only talking about the book when we are talking about VAT, not the situation of the Slovenian book. Slovenian publishers are in crisis, very large, and you can see that sales of books in bookstores have essentially fallen apart and we are here on a tail in Europe. In every country I visit, I also visit bookstores that are actually completely different. In the meantime, don't mind me saying something to you, Jože, and I'd use it, but I wouldn't want anything against it, because you were speaking correctly. However, a note that I also feel and goes to my address, particularly from my writing colleagues. I'd like to point out on this occasion a number of times how incorrect it is. Jaša Zlębec published several collections of songs and some publicist books and could not be an ex-writer. He wrote a book and is a Slovenian writer. And they all say to me, "You are a pity, you were a respected writer, but now you are a political one, a messenger." I am still a Slovenian writer, no matter how much I write, and this is also part of respect. So, you're something if you're dealing with something here, and you're probably an ex for the other one. For me, colleague Zląb - I also regret writing several books - was and is a respected writer. Celebration goes somewhere else, as I say. I certainly think and agree with you that it doesn't matter how many lines it is if we just vote right. And I think it would be a great cultural act of this National Assembly if I supported the zero rate for the Slovenian book.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr Jerovšek, to write you as a replica of the implementation of Mr Partljič, including Mrs Črnugelj. There'll be no mistake because there was a lot of time for replicas to Mr. Jashi the Evil One. Did I let anyone go? [[I didn't.]] Thank you very much. She's got the word, Mrs. Silva Crnugelj has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	I just wanted to remind Mr Partljič that Jaša Złobec is a writer, but he is also a translator and also writes radio shows and games for children, etc., still. Thank you. It's a school watch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	It won't be hard for me to apologize at all, Mr. Yashi the Evil One, but I may have expressed myself very embarrassingly. I just wanted to express that lately -- but this can happen to me because I don't read that much -- I didn't see that he was an active writer. On one occasion, though, I also read his songs, and I also remember him from when he was taken from the Faculty of Philosophy. I think he read something there, too. So I just wanted to say that I know he was once active, but thank you for the information that he kept going on. I certainly don't think he's an ex-writer, but if I hear he's leaked something lately, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Let's go back to the debaters. Mr. Petty Officer. Can I help you? A replica, maybe? Replica, please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A replica of some in front of me. The fact is that we are not aware of the basic principle contained in value added tax, that is its neutrality and thus the equality before the law of more or less of all those in the VAT chain. Therefore, such discussions as today’s will be a full number of each mandate and perhaps at any pre-election time and perhaps other occasions. A large number of individual groups are to be taken to the knowledge that have an argument that the rate is zero or smaller. But all of this is caused by some impossibility in the VAT system. In particular, our objective must be that, to the maximum extent, the country is one stage alone, and then the country is going back through the state budget, either subsidised or interventional, for the individual needs of the country, for individual country programmes, whether they are humanitarian organisations, whether they are cultural organisations, whether they are voluntary societies, etc. As soon as we descend into such an open field, we destroy the basic principle and the VAT system and make VAT extremely imprecise and, I would say, between individual areas of interest. If we continue to lean in this direction, there will be more and more of these contradictions. It is therefore also the principle in Europe that practically more or less of everything is subject to VAT, and in this way the state enters into assistance to programmes where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have two replicas of Mr Brenčič's implementation, first Mr Vizjak, then Mr Petan. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would replicate to my colleague Brenčič so much that I would upgrade his replica in the sense that I fully agree, which is based on principles, with the neutrality of the value added tax. However, it is left to each country to regulate certain lower tax rates and specifically address areas which it considers to be important for its national interest and otherwise appropriate. As a proponent of this amendment of the law, I considered that firefighting is and, of course, I stress that the Slovenian book - that is why this difference is also between a reduced and zero tax rate - that those two are such important things in Slovenia that need this specific, special, exceptional treatment. I would also like to point out here that we have decided on this proposal, in particular with regard to the Slovenian book, on the basis of a number of analyses and of course data on the state of publishing and of course also Slovenian books, that we have weighed various possible ways, and of course even as a proposaler, I say that this is only a temporary solution, in my opinion, to our basic and essential solution in the national cultural programme and in accordance with the book. That is what I think, and yet things are more alarming every day, we see what is happening to publishing somewhere, we see what else is going on, what trends are going on, and we do not want to see Croatia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you. So I replicate Mr. Brenčič, but in terms of complementarity. I agree with him to some extent. What he said was supposed to apply to all equal rates. It's really the easiest thing to do. We're probably the same here, but I'd like to add something to it. This is also true of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Then the obligation to pay the tax for all should also apply. I mentioned earlier that there are 50 billion tolars unrecovered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Yeah, I'm tying up. I'm tying up now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Taxes are not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	That's one. If, what we propose in Article 1 and, of course, also in Article 2, is said in this law, this would mean that if we only recovered unpaid taxes so that for 10 years, what we propose, we can roughly cover. We recover, and for 10 years we can cover this activity without paying the tax. That's what I wanted to tell you. This is because we continue to say how much this will mean for the budget. I agree. I agree with that, but let's watch what we haven't done, and let's cover it with this. Then we must all, all of us, have the same right to pay or not pay taxes. Not to look partial, as you tell us. And we can read back so you don't collect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We also have two replicas of Mr Visionak's performance. First Mr. Horvath, then Mr. Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. It is precisely this replication that I agree with my colleague Viszak when he challenges his colleague Brenčič. The course of this debate and these replicas shows, colleagues and colleagues, that this proposed law is not the right way to solve these two problems, which you have written down as the purpose of this law and the content of this law. Because look what's going on. We already see practical consequences, not only after the debate, but also after the additional amendments. And, for example, after the amendment of the New Slovenia parliamentary group for children's clothing or infants. And I don't object to the fact that it may not be justified to issue this, either. But we cannot do so that two things are proposed, and then a reptile is launched, and probably everyone has an area that can defend it, where a reduced rate is supposed to be or is supposed to be a zero rate. Colleagues and colleagues, where do we get to? I do not think that this is serious and that it is not responsible for both these individual activities and not primarily for public finances. We have to keep score on that, too. All normal countries are generally restrictive in the field of exceptions and reduced rates, although they want to promote or encourage individual activities. However, other resources are also available from the budget and other measures taken by the State, except through reduced rates and exceptions, or zero rates. But then we have to do this in a systematic, professional way, and so it was the right decision taken by this National Assembly, and we are going with it now simply past that decision, which we have taken unanimously ourselves to prepare a proposal for the Government to take into account all aspects, on the one hand, the need to make exceptions for encouraging individual activities, for the sake of public interest, to say generally, and, of course, to keep accounts of compliance with directives and of course also of other aspects, and then, on the basis of such a proposal, consistent, professionally prepared then, we are discussing and seeing whether this is, or whether it is something else, which should necessarily be included in the facilitation or reduced rates and then in the zero levels. Not that we are now bidding here, as if we were ahead of the elections and we want to pick cheap political points. Because, excuse me, I agree with colleagues who have cited a few examples of the applicants' behaviour that this is also the case. I mean this, not only is it not responsible, but it is also unfair to other fellow Members, but whether we are in opposition or in coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mr. Yasza Zląbet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much, colleague. I would have a very short replica of my colleague Visiak, given that, on the proposal, the book tax remains the same as it was, that we must first adopt the national programme and then regulate it globally. I, my colleague Vizjak, was in the first and second parliamentary call, and that was precisely what was said - when Cafuder was Minister, when Rudy Sheligo was constantly dragged by his ears, after the current ambassador to Belgrade was Minister, and at the end when Rudy Sheligo came to the Ministry City and he wrote a national programme that is not valid today, which is just one piece of paper, like any other piece. We have looked into other comparable countries and it has turned out that many national programmes do not have at all because the areas are so different and are changing. If we wait for the national programme, I promise you, I promise you, I can assure you, there will be no more for the next 10 years, and the book tax is such an urgent matter that it cannot wait for the national programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Did you report to the replica, Mr. Bernick?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Yes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The subject matter of this marriage is taxes. It is about taxes and it is recommended that the government prepare some kind of change, take into account some of the things we are dealing with here today. My experience is, when taxes are managed, taxes must be broken down in all dimensions. However, it is quite amazing that the government would accept anything that would lower taxes. Just so far as it makes no sense to hope that such a law, a bill from the government, will be given. Personally, I'll be very happy to see him during my lifetime, but I doubt it. Let me say something else. When we talk about the book, do we realize how precious the books are to us? How expensive they are because we have small publications. If you compare books elsewhere in the world, you will find that you can easily buy them. While I'm here, I'm surprised that the market still exists in these high taxes. It would be necessary to consider that the book tax would be nothing, as it is elsewhere in the world, but it is totally irrelevant, except from a legal point of view, of course, what the tax on books is in the European Union. Okay, there are book taxes while we have to think about what's good for us, for our culture, and therefore we should seriously consider that there is no tax on the book. Paradox is that, too. The state supports libraries, etc., and when the library buys books, it has to pay VAT. It's said to be a purely enchanted circle. I would really recommend to all of us that we consider, for there is a growing decline in reading where we will end up. We've had great issues before, all kinds of things, and one day we'll come to the point where we won't even be able to publish books anymore. Please, let's start thinking about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you. They debate, Member Petty Officer, then Jerovšek, then Sušnik, Kremjar, Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A warm welcome to all fellow Members and representatives of the government. I'd like to highlight that first. The proposal tabled is in no way inconsistent with European guidelines or guidelines. It is neutral and does not break the market order. For this relief refers to the final phase, i.e. the consumer. The second reason is that it's a voluntary activity, a humanitarian, a charitable activity. So, that's a couple of reasons that say it's possible. Of course, it's a matter of our country, of our customers, of what they give priority to. In this context, our amendment has also come. Caring for the birth of the Slovenians. But it did not come just by chance - given how fellow Members of the ruling coalition behaved in the adoption of the law on parental protection and family benefits. Since we have practically postponed everything to years, I do not know which, gentlemen, and there is no appropriate harmonisation, the normal consequence is when we have analysed the need to make such a proposal. And that's why we submitted it. So, everything is in priority, and those two priorities that have been set are entirely justified not to explain them in particular. Of course, I am concerned about the statements made by some Members that this law is harmful to firefighters so that they cannot behave. That means we don't trust them. Firefighters survived all their systems and all their metals were laid to their feet, and they were in an unenviable position. But because they were organized from below because they were human masses, they survived all these tortures. Of course, they're not controlled on the right side, so they're a thorn in the fifth wide range. It is enough if they are controlled by the local community by those who establish them because they are self-governanced because they organise themselves. Of course, it's probably not in the context of complete control. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Dear colleague, I think you're saying things that are not about the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	I'm sorry, they're extraordinary in terms of marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	I don't think so. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	I'm talking about firefighters, I'm talking about arguments for proposing amendments to the law, which I will also support. The proposal by DeSUS was tabled in the previous reading in order to facilitate this purpose. Now it's completely changing. I don't know, I don't understand this behavior anymore - whether they've changed the program or changed the Members or what it's called. The fire-fighting activity, if I relate more to this, is therefore a public service, the state has prescribed it. But she didn't prescribe adequate means. Now, however, fire companies are taking their own steps, and we have to help them in this way. That would be irresponsible. It is known and we know what happened to the budget. The budget has allocated smaller resources to local communities and it is now impossible to expect local communities to support the necessary equipment in a large part. Technical equipment is necessary and therefore these reliefs are also meaningful and reasonable. So in view of what I have just said, I also support these changes, including the amendment I have tabled, which I have also said what the arguments are. The arguments that are stem from the facts and actions of the last week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Member Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the opposition to the reduced rate of firefighting equipment and the opposition to the reduction or zero rate for the book, if I take, under the book, a metaphor for the whole sphere of creation in art and culture, that it is in some way an attack on voluntary activity, a misunderstanding of the role of voluntary activity, humanitarian activity, the role of firefighting, which is significantly broader than some here in this National Assembly, are willing to understand. I am therefore directly surprised by the difficulties that the implementation of this law would be detrimental to public finances. I think it is possible to express and enforce public finances by coalition or government circles in a significantly better way. In fact, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where, the Court of Auditors' report, millions and billions of dollars flow out in the case of Eles. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Mr Jerovšek, please speak again about things that are not directly related to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	I didn't open this relationship to be harmful to public finances this law. I am convinced that these funds, which would have slightly less flowed into the state budget at a reduced rate of VAT, are significantly better paid off than many other funds. And that in the end, they mean the embezzlement of money in this country. In particular, the humanitarian activity or charity carried out by firefighters is extremely broad and manifests itself in many areas. Do fellow Members realize that in this way they would actually do something for demographically endangered areas where firefighters, almost every year, are thus supplying people with drinking water droughts. And for punishment then, of course, all this activity is taxed at an enormous rate. Look. There is also taxation on funds that are essentially donated for humanitarian purposes if firefighters collect certain funds for this purpose and then buy equipment, such a high rate of tax on those donors. This is unacceptable and lame voluntary activity. I don't know if anyone in this country wants such a voluntary, charitable activity to go down or die. We know there's not much of that in town. I don't know if the whole of Slovenia has to lose this human note in order to be humanity in some way. Then it's said that it's harmful for the firefighters themselves. In a way, yes, because if firefighters have more equipment, the more they help the environment, the more they help people. That's what they say. It's bad for them because they work harder. But then it turns out that for the country, it's just a roast fireman. I don't think a burning fireman is a fireman anymore. That's why I don't get it. Even less I understand on a logical basis the position of DeSUS, which is now against it, just as it was before against the solutions of pension legislation that would have favoured [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Lord Jerovšek, I give you another admonition, and I take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Please don't stop. There's nothing to do with the agenda. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	I repeat to my colleague Jerovšk, because if he listened to my debate, he could also look at a magnetogram or listen, I would see that I specifically said that I agree with all of those, basically I am not against, but I specifically said that this National Assembly has adopted, after discussion, certain conclusions on the same issue, and I expect these conclusions to come true because they are all written in them. Let's not start every week or every month a new chapter on the same issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Member Sušnik debates!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Dear Mr. Vice President! I hope that I can say to the end what I am going to say in support of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. It is probably clear to all that this proposal for a law has come about and is mainly a result of the findings that the firefighters themselves have presented to us on the ground to represent their interests in this national assembly. This is also confirmed by the finding of the plenary of the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia, which was at Igu on 19 May this year, which is the cause of the poor financial situation in the field of firefighting, and has also confirmed that the main cause of the poor financial situation in firefighting is the introduction of value added tax. See, over the past ten years, the fires of society, in addition to their activities, which have already been carried out throughout rich history, have also taken over a good part of the tasks of the protection and rescue system. I just want to remind you of the floods 1990-1994 and some other thing that fully confirms it. Dispersion is a matter of historical development and fire in Gorenje in Velenj only confirms that we need such a wide and well-equipped fire organisation because it has proved that despite the fact that more than 60 fire companies were involved, they were not yet part of the fire. To build on just three, four voluntary or professional societies, however, no one can imagine how to limit the spread of this fire. For example, this is to Mr Marsich, but this is an unsuccessful intervention in Koper at Slavnik's garages. I think it's here in the fire lines, from which I come myself, that there's been quite a broad debate about this. But the roots of this debate are also that unfortunately in Primorska the tradition of firefighting is slightly different than in other parts of Slovenia. If there is anything that needs to be done in this area, I would like to make only two more arguments. Firefighters have now also found themselves, because of the lack of funds, wanting to avoid taking over spent, out-of-work equipment from neighbouring countries already in the European Community. As a result of this, the garages of our fire companies are not becoming knowledgeable, I will somehow say, scrap square or waste, not to resent this expression, some neighbouring countries, especially Germany, which thus dispose of all the extra firepower. In order not to play with this, the case also shows, Mr Vice-President will confirm this to me when the use of obsolete equipment has resulted in the death victim and I do not want to be responsible for similar cases. See, 3 percent of the eligible consumption, yesterday we heard that according to fire safety, about 250 million tolars, which goes to fire companies in Slovenia, are obviously not enough to maintain the level of equipment of our fire companies. Therefore, if firefighters want to spend as much time as they want, at least once more on voluntary contributions. I have done this myself, and I know how people like to support fire activity when they receive that card and the New Year's calendar; at least in the countryside this is the case. In the fact that the State then charges such funds, there is nothing left for me as a firefighter but to conclude with that famous fireman's greeting: "Help!"
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Replica has a Member of the Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	I'd like to replicate my colleague, Ambassador Pohorc. We have taken a decision in Parliament, but this decision for the government is not binding. And as we can see from the list of July sessions, this law is not on the agenda. I doubt the government will prepare it in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. Member Marshich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, I have to replicate. I can't leave such manipulations without a replica, namely Mr. Sušnik. Your assessment, and this is your assessment that shutting down Dara's facilities in Cyprus has failed, is just wrong and is misleading. On the one hand, you claim that the fire of Gorenje was successful - the building and warehouse or whatever it was - burned to the ground - and on the other hand in Dar, when the firefighters extinguished in an hour and a half, but it failed. Go read the inspection reports and reports from the CSI, and you'll find out what the truth is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. It's been replicated by Ambassador Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Replica to Mr Marsic, as well as to complement his debate on firefighting; however, I will not go further into the field of firefighting, because it seems to be one topic that we are all really familiar with in this national assembly, besides roads and some others. I would like to say, given that Gorenje was mentioned, the firefighters' action in Velenje was successful mainly thanks to what one of the participants in this action or the companies involved in this action has already said before me. Galvana Gorenje really burned to the ground, but it wasn't the biggest threat to Gorenje. Burning was threatened by the risk of an explosion of gas, which was slightly away from the place of fire, but it threatened and it was the greatest danger. Firefighters located the fire, stopped it, and then put it out, but they protected the other facilities. I therefore suggest that those who have not participated in or witnessed this event should leave a professional assessment to those who have participated and to those who have merely observed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I note that some Members are out of the debate, but we are talking about value added tax. Member Kremjar is discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. This Assembly Hall has one great advantage, so that we can read item 29 and write what we are discussing. If someone can't read and enter this room, he won't know what we're talking about. Well, good thing we got this. Look. Creating, artificially creating a dilemma, who is for firefighters and who is against firefighters is, of course, a perfectly legitimate matter, but not real. It can be a way of getting, I'll say, political points, which is also legitimate, why not. Of course, that's not what we're supposed to be discussing today. I think that no one - just so much about firefighters - is against firefighters and we are all aware of the problems they have, like many other areas. That is why this National Assembly adopted certain conclusions on 11 April. One of these is that the government will draw up a proposal after about two years of the implementation of the VAT law, and it is now two years now, which is adopted by law, in which, on the basis of the experience of this time, it will also present to this assembly a vision of how to proceed, either as it is now, or otherwise, in view of all the comments and proposals we have. Of course, at the final stage, we will tell our own, and that is also true, and this is why this decision has been adopted. So any intervention in this matter, without taking other matters into account, is, in my view, pointless, because it only leads to what we have today, to start talking about areas such as a book that is in itself very important and very wide, science, child care, diapers and we would end up talking about sports societies, which is an extremely big problem and the same problem, and which is even more than a firefighter's society, etc. So an inexhaustible area of debate and an inexhaustible area where each individual is right in his own way. I would have, too, in this case. I want to say the following. If we have agreed that this proposal will be prepared, the government will prepare it and must prepare it. Then there is an opportunity to open the debate. I know that you will not bother with replicas, you will say that it is written that by June the government will prepare this proposal, it has not yet prepared it and, of course, let us consider this to be an issue for the government, because it has not prepared it. So you don't have to get so tired of replicas if you're going to give it. My debate is in this direction to respect the decision we have adopted, and since then, when such a broad debate has been opened, on the basis of some of the reasoned things arising from the two-year application of the VAT law, we have been discussing again the firefighters and the diapers and sports articles and sports societies and also science and all the other things. That's why I think we're actually taking too much time on our own and, of course, taking advantage of a lot of things, from trying to create artificial dilemmas, who's up for and who's up against. If you're creating these dilemmas, no one, I can assure you, is against our fellow firefighters, far from that. Nobody. But we think, at least I think so, I do not speak on behalf of others, that the matter must be resolved in a complex manner, and when a complex debate comes, I will probably repeat this part of the debate that I am now having. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. He's replicating the Magnificent. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much. I am very sorry if I have not been clear in the debates so far. I am sure that there is no one in this Chamber who would be against firefighters or against the preservation and development of the Slovenian book. But here today we are talking about the technique of how these two branches or how these two specifics of Slovenia, which we all agree is important, I hope, from the debate I can summarize, and how to help it. One of the aid techniques is also the one we are talking about today. This is a law or a reduced and zero tax rate on fire rescue equipment and for sound, word and image carriers from the above areas. If we are generally discussing the problem of firefighting or the problem of painting, Slovenian books, we are also discussing the solution to this problem. Here is the heart of the debate, and I also think the essence of this, today's debate. It's a good thing we're talking about this. You said, and it's also the core of my replica that the government should prepare, but the government didn't prepare it within a given time frame, 30.6. And let us now wait for this and let all these areas, which I think are necessary emergency assistance, testify to the arguments that I have on the table and you have received them yourself, because they have been sent to the National Assembly, I hope that the National Assembly has distributed them to you. These arguments show that something needs to be done, not waiting for systemic solutions that are promised in accordance with a number of years already said and promised by each minister, but do nothing. But the matter and the area are collapsing and at risk. Both the book and some satisfactory and effective work of firefighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. He's replicating Ambassador Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that New Slovenia, which supports this change, does not bid in general and does not see any need to open the whole subject. On our part, we have only opened three very clear matters that are also of priority to us: children, books, firefighters. And the arguments have already been said enough. I simply do not believe that this government, given how faithful it is to its work programme - we have already heard of this and have read the percentages of implementation during the initial part of the mandate - so I do not believe that this will be done as promised; and of course this is not the only thing. And if we see a different responsibility here and find that the law is non-life in these three areas, we do not say it out of our own conjecture, but we listen to people commenting on these matters, comparing and asking questions, we do well to demand responsible behaviour and an appropriate rate of VAT. We do not propose the introduction of VAT on turtles or on sad state celebrations, we propose to regulate those areas that are truly vital - and children, books and firefighters are undoubtedly. I'm not bidding on Demagogos here, but I understand the firemen I've heard before when they said what they would do for the 80 million who went to the funeral celebration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Member Anderlich replicates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	I was sure that there would be no need to discuss this law, because things were more than clear. It must be said, however, that it is wrong and unfair to hear from Mr Visian and some others, say Mr Sušnik, because I have closely followed after Mr Vizjak and some others have sent to all firefighters companies a statement, magnetograms and so on, who in this country is against firefighters, who is the one who is their undertaker and so on. When I also received news from various magazines, such as the Ljubljana Firefighter and the like, and when I did so, I also ensured that there was certainly no need for them to have the wrong opinion and hope that something could be arranged quickly so that they could get more money or that they would not have to pay the tax. Look, this law has been applied incorrectly and this law should not be dealt with in any way and should not be taken into consideration. When it comes to financial implications for the budget, which should be a fundamental explanation in the law, it says that there will be no financial implications for the budget or that no additional funds will be needed. Yes, it is. But by not paying so much and so much VAT, there will be a burden on the budget. You didn't judge what that means. You didn't write the law. Anyway, I don't know which one of them was, I don't know, who filed it, at least I'm reading it here in the report because I wasn't dealing with it in detail. But I assure you that it is not right to force this law on the agenda. For by that law that we dealt with in the spring, there was a clear commitment and agreement that all interested parties should sit down, including us, and find a suitable solution. What did you do? You sent copies, you went to the choirs, you lured firefighters, you write letters, you write petitions, and it's not really what Mr. Sušnik says it came from the knowledge of firefighters, of course, they feel it. It is true that on the basis of the incentives you have given them and the false promise that you will settle this, unless those who are there, I don't know, against them, etc. That's not how it works, sir. Mr Visjak, it is a matter of responsibility for this country as a whole, not only how you take it from somewhere, but you will take it from the country and leave it to someone else. There's been a speech about this dilemma being artificial, and I'm saying it's artificial. Accept, be a carrier, be an initiator, call the government, I now call on it, and if you want, I will commit myself, and I will make this coordination between you, among the finances, among others, and find a way to help not only firefighters, including Slovenian books and anyone else. In the framework of the system, in the context of tax burdens, which are probably unfairly distributed, but VAT is not an additional burden on firefighters, but VAT is a system that is charged, at least in the procedure you are talking about, I am sure that at least five times. At least five times. Firefighters are, for example, the last that obviously and sadly cannot be used as a relief, perhaps there is a solution that can be made within that, and that would be the right way. I support this path, and not again after this meeting or after this meeting of the assembly, send to all fire brigades statements and magnetograms how we are one against, how you are the other for and how you would like to help. You'll help by starting to talk about things and looking inside the solution system. Nevertheless, it is still necessary to look at how, in relation to these facilitations, this fund, Mr Peterle, is to be met with guidance and with the concessions granted in the European Union, where we should go and what conditions we must meet for it. That is why I propose, Mr Vizjak, that you do not go this way as you did three, four months ago, but that we put together a better proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. He's replicating Ambassador Moge. Okay. He's replicating the Magnificent. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that and that I can express this replica. Look. There were bad words and hard words to say that we were protecting, falsely imagining, and so forth. If this replica flew to me, please tell me where I once protected someone and faked something. You said that we're going here with some partial stuff where they're not standing, instead of figuring out a system to save the firepower out of this conundrum. My predecessors already told me what the problem is. The problem is that the State prescribes equipment for firefighters with regulations and similar documents, while at the same time not providing them with sufficient resources. This is a public service and, as has already been properly established here, firefighters do not receive sufficient resources on the basis of contracts concluded to provide the equipment prescribed, at least in most cases. I come from an area where we have 33 fire companies, not one is adequately equipped, in accordance with the regulation. The point is that we were looking for a system in line with the government's position. This is the fact that these companies are allocated sufficient resources from the budget. We have proposed this in the budget, the matter has not been adopted. I am sorry to have to say this here, but these are facts and you can check them out of our amendments and, of course, from our debate at the time of the debate. This is a new experiment that I realize is partial. The purpose of this experiment is also to find a real solution to this problem once by this national assembly and our government. I hope that today's almost two and a half hours of debate on this subject is a sufficient journey for those responsible in this country to do something about it. I am prepared on my part, and also on the part of many, however to participate in this and to help with all our efforts to solve these problems, emerging and increasingly pressing problems, not only in the field of firefighting, but also in the field of the Slovenian book. Be aware that the purpose, and it was not to protect, falsely display, I do not see what I would very much ask Mr Anderlich to explain where anyone is or where I personally have protected and faked anything. [[...]] But I do know that the spoils of the fire department have given this national council a clear message of what the firefighters think, or that the respected National Assembly thinks that the loot is not the right address to say what is right and what is good for the firefighters - I don't know. Who, then, in this country is the one who can better assess their situation than they can through their own organs? Therefore, our commitment is in support of their findings, not that we have protected and faked something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Member Marshich replicates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Look, obviously you guys don't understand things here, and then you talk a little bit about it. Comrade Vizjak, the government by its regulation does not prescribe firefighting companies how many firefighters they must have and what equipment they must have. The government prescribes that each congregation should have a public fire service in its territory, either alone or in cooperation with other congregations. It's something else. It's something else. This means that when the mayor signs a decision on the public fire service, he says that out of the forty fire companies in general, three fire companies will have to provide - three, four, five or six, depending on his decision - a certain number of first-time firefighters, which means, not even a fire company, a certain number of operative firefighters and these firefighters must have such equipment. It's the mayor who sets it up. The mayor has to provide funds, not the government - the mayor! This is what you probably didn't listen to in my initial speech when I said that the first problem with the mayor - the mayor has to provide funds to provide public fire services. And here the matter is perfectly clear and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Is that a replica? Replica, Member Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna replicate two at a time, so I'm not gonna waste twice. I'd like to start with Mr. Anderlich. I agree with him in a lot of ways, but I don't think it's necessary to make it clear that we haven't tried to define the financial implications in at least a word. I've made it clear twice, and apparently no one listens to me. I said twice that if we had not recovered those taxes - and we were not all the same before the law - we had recovered them and, I don't know, we would have given them only one fifth for these purposes, for books and firefighters, for five years would not need any other money at all. It's the first time, just for a little while. And a second time, Mr. Marshich. It is true that the government prescribes, I agree with that, there is no dilemma here; also categorisation is given and also prescribed some type of standardisation of equipment for individual categorisation. I had already said that in the past it was true that some were exaggerating and wanted to have equipment that they could not actually use. That's true, but it's getting less and less. On the other hand, it is not only the mayor's job to take care of this job, because, say, fire in nature, for example at Pohorje, it is not only a matter of mayor in Zreča or Slovenian Bistrica or in Oplotnica. That's what the government has to worry about. Hence, the government must contribute or in any way make it easier for the congregation to equip the work in charge. That's why we can't just look unilaterally. Even what you said was true. That's true, but there's only one part of the truth. But for the second part, let's say we're a little warmer. If we could find one consensus here, we'd probably come up with the right solution. This debate today, I am sure it will also lead us to realize that we cannot say this, this is my nursery, outside this kindergarten I have no interest in and will not worry about it at all. The other one you're going to be out of kindergarten, you're going to say, this is yours, and we don't even care what's going on out there. That's what I was going to say, and we'll probably agree that there are national interests as well. Then we have a few more points ahead, just the law that talks about national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Tsukati is debating.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Respectable. Good-bye! The 25th article in force states that at a rate of 8 per cent, there is a wide range of accounts, ranging from diet for humans to animal nutrition, seeds, orchards, medicines, medical, orthopaedic products, technical devices and so on. That is to say, we have a number of these things, and if I look at what is being paid at a reduced tax rate, then it seems to me that it was a mistake to have these means of rescue and protection, this is the right means of fire, not included, that it's a little bit of a mistake, I can't imagine otherwise. See, for example, if a wheelchair is at a tax rate of 8 percent, there would not be a reduced tax rate for a fire escape ladder that prevents this disability from jumping out of a burning apartment and breaking down. I don't understand. I don't get it for a while. I think it only eliminates the fundamental error that's been in here since the beginning. That's the first thing an average reader like me notices. Second. Our firefighting, especially in the countryside, is truly voluntary. And voluntary activity, if we are shut down, will be fully responsible for the organisation and implementation of the protection and rescue of this country, this budget. All of it. For this reason, I do not understand that this country does not approach this voluntary activity, which is actually burdening the budget. With greater attention, however, it means that, at least at a reduced tax rate, it allows for the purchase of this equipment. And for the third time, what I'd say are the questions that came up here. It is desirable not to be here 15 indents at a lower tax rate, but that all taxes be equal for all, and then the state would refund or subsidise, etc. Look. When a reduced tax rate was introduced for previously untaxed medicinal products, the state health care department received 8 billion and 7.5 billion losses. At that time, it was said that the State would subsidize this and that the funds would flow back. There was never this tolar, and now it's a dilemma, whether there will be a reduction in the number of operations of gray darks, heart valves and the like or not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	I have to warn you, it's not in the sense of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	This is within the meaning of the law - or the rate of contribution will rise. [[...]] For this reason, we believe that the current approach is to reduce the tax rate of fire and rescue equipment slightly. As far as the books are concerned, I am very happy that she has found more obedience among the listeners or among the Members, and I am sure that she will also be confirmed. As a result, I would not lose my words and justify the rightfulness of the burden of the book. With regard to the allegations that firefighters were more aware of the voting results, I believe that, however, our session is public, that magnetograms are accessible to everyone and that every journalist in each local newspaper can obtain a vote. I think what we're doing here, let's do it in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There will be a debate by Ambassador Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	President, thank you so much for your word. Undoubtedly, value added tax is one of the main sources of budget power. Hemingway wrote to whom the bell rings a while ago, and we must say, "To whom do we take such laws?" It seems to me, then, that "to whom these dilemmas are taken" have been left to the government or, by such laws, we are causing that what a coalition of rules is, if we are damned, they have given us such a budget, which has nothing left to power us from, that if we are honest, then another thing should be saved. I am still convinced that the government will promise those who will make changes and additions to this law before the budget, as it did when we talked about it, and as the National Assembly undertakes it. That is why I think today's debate is very talented, respected colleagues, as well as the use of certain things for their personal promotion. It seems to me that Members can do it legally, and we do it more or less, legally and legally. But it is a question of ethics and morality, if I am one of the 20,000 voting papers that I will send to the public concerned, and I will say, "Look how moral I am, and the others are immoral and against it," without having the whole context of that debate in front of me. I think that this is of no benefit to the Members, nor to the person who sends it, nor to us as an entire assembly. I'd like to open a third dilemma. When we discussed the value added law, it wasn't just firefighting, it wasn't just a book then, it wasn't social, which was now also highlighted in part by Nova Slovenija, with clothes, footwear and equipment for babies and children. He's a madman who wouldn't support it. But he needs to know what forms he's going to support. I would put here another dimension that is more important to the economy of this nation and that we will be important in Europe than that, at least according to my own personal assessment, this is science. We were talking about science back then. Allow those who are doing new value by means of science to be not fully charged with value added tax in copyright and to be less. This matter has fallen into the current bill. But when we talked about it and went crazy, it was one of the main attributes of supporting such a law. And I would support such a marriage. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It seems completely realistic and rational for someone to take a full look at the changes in this law, which we are talking about, to set priorities both for social, children and everything else, about the book, about science and also about firefighters, and then say, "We will change so much, but we will take this account and take it." This word can be done most elegantly before the budget is adopted. I'm warning you again in the government. Colleagues argued with good arguments that these things should be resolved and also dealt with in several ways. I am alone, and I will also invest, no decision will be taken on the part of my mother's working body, so that science can now be resolved. But I am sure that you will be able to do so much power within yourself and that before this national assembly, which, after all, has appointed ministers and also appointed the government, you will respect the decision that this national council has taken, and you will bring solutions that will - forgive the ugly expression - drink water. Solving such problems in this way with hours and hours of debate on what anyone would like, but I think, forgive me, not the mockery from us Members, but from the people who elected us. Every minute costs, you know how much and how much money, and there are also laws ahead of us, one of them has even been ranked as a priority today to just do what we accepted and did it economically. That is why I think it would be wise to end this debate and move to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The last Member of the Council shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Otherwise, Mr Rudi Mogé has said quite something to me that I had in mind. I certainly agree with the opinion that the topic covered by this novel law is also topical and on a wide range of content. However, of course, I agree with everyone that it cannot be resolved in a simplified way. Both areas need to be thoroughly ventilated, analysed and then proposed solutions that will have a good impact on the country and on the well-being of the structures to which they are intended. Look, yesterday we discussed a law amending the Fire Protection Act. It is interesting that almost no debate has developed on firefighting, but it is the basis of the organisation of firefighting, both voluntary and professional, in the Fire Protection Act. In Slovenia, this matter is very different, in various areas, but it would be easy for Mr. Viszak as well. [[We're both coming from the same area.]] asked whether the State was obliged to take care of anyone who wished to be organised in a firefighting society. Is that a national assignment? I don't think so. See, in the coming months, when we are awaiting consideration of the law or the invitation to a referendum for new congregations, we will have an example on the table from my environment. The municipality, which will run for the new municipality, has 2,900 inhabitants, has 9 villages and has 9 fire companies. Here is one of the problems - this municipality will have to organise fire protection as a public service in accordance with the law. However, the question is whether such a congregation will be able to provide quality support to all 9 fire companies. This is where the problem begins, and this is where a whole range of problems begin, how we will solve this problem and where we will make a selection between what is necessary, what local communities need to ensure in terms of prevention and curativeness, and what is the state importance and where we will then react with tax policy instruments. It is a shame, therefore, that this law has been introduced in a fast procedure and probably is not well thought out and that it has taken us all day to discuss the question of what result it will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you. He's replicating Ambassador Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	I will join the firefighters if this debate goes on, because they will have to be supported differently than we support them by such discussions here. Look, Mr. Ašič said whether we will now take care of every firefighter I think the optics need to be reversed: if we make it easier for firefighters to do the work they voluntarily load, we only care about ourselves, because we do not care about anyone else, because we will not introduce a caste that will live differently than others. [[...]] Then this, or nine or how many fire companies to the congregation. Yes, will we now prescribe how many fire companies the congregation can have? Somehow it's going in a sad direction. I've seen something burn myself, and how important it is that there are multiple fire companies. One is there early, and here's the game, I'd say, very welcome, and then one starts early, and the other comes later. But if we have one prescription, it'll be that, I don't know, starter "screw" and there'll be no one there. Sorry, that's not how it works! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Before concluding the general debate, I give the floor to Secretary of State Koncan. I'm sorry. I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle must have misinterpreted it. That's not how I discussed it. But if I understood correctly, I would, or I would complement this thought in this debate, but this one, better to have three good intervention vehicles than nine bad ones. And that's where we'll have to think about it. 9 old people who are hard to maintain, or 3 good functional. Here we will have to make some criteria and criteria and then on the basis of criteria and criteria, say, in this part and to this extent there is a zero rate or a reduced rate, but the rest please, if you want, have. That was my thought, not what you wanted to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The State Secretary Concan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. First of all, I would like to speak first of all about what Members, Mr Horvat, Mr Drobnič, Mr Moge and others, have pointed out, of course, the decision of the National Assembly on 11 April on the commitment of the Government, especially the Ministry of Finance, that, by 30.6., by tomorrow, it is said, a revision of the value added tax law, as stated in the Government's programme. We have that document ready. We wanted even more of this at this time, because the value added tax system, already today's debate proves this, many of you have also talked about it, it's very complex, very demanding, it's necessary to know things widely and for a long time, so that they can also be justified by good arguments. At the outset, in the Government's views, we have made very clear why we must oppose the specific law and concrete justifications from the professional, political and legal commitments made by our country in these pre-accession negotiations. We will implement this decision of the National Assembly and we will put it into procedure on Monday, the first working day following that date. At that time, in particular in agreement with the President of the Parliamentary Committee, Mr Puck, we agreed, in order to avoid such debates as you have warned Mr Mohe, of course, in my personal opinion, a fair, just one special education, where many of these professional dilemmas could be discussed without burden, that this precious time of the entire national assembly is flowing. This education or this conversation, no matter how unilaterally some journalists, who were not even present directly, intervened further, I think that in good work he carried out his mission and that with at least those Members, as Mrs Črnuglje also warned, in fact at least some dilemmas and pointed out possible possible solutions in one or another light. I cannot go beyond this if I want to make a professional contribution, because as long as you have determined, today has been spent on the importance, the social significance and objectives of voluntary firefighting. We have said that the government is not at all opposed to this, but that the question is whether the value added tax system can solve this issue, as is the proposed novelty. See, I would like to say something very fair about all this debate and open my eyes to all those who have addressed a lot of critical words to the government, how in the VAT system it does nothing and nothing, not only to firefighters, but also to other specific humanitarian organisations, societies, does not allow and only with certain regulations restricts, burdens and so on. You have forgotten Article 10(26) of this same law, which states that all these activities which are exempt may not charge value added tax for those goods and services by which they raise funds for the financing of their activities. No one has spoken about this today, so I am obliged to draw this professional attention. So, all of this, even if you want commercial activity, specifically voluntary fire companies and other companies that carry out certain commercial activities, if it does not distort competition on the market, but there is no known case to date that the tax administration has accused anyone of distorting competition on the market, is exempt from charging value added tax. You see, this is a very important aspect. I think it's right to put him right as such. It is not a problem at different levels, as you correctly stated. Slovenia is in that group of countries with an average of slightly below the average of this rate, the overall rate of value added tax. The problem is in the system, as Member Brenčič warned, the problem is in the system, the problem is in derogations, in irregularities that can then occur on the market. These mentioned excise duties on cigarettes specifically mentioned by the bill's proposer, and why the government is not so gradually in negotiations with the EU. I'd love to. But this would result in additional negative effects in our national economy, as inflationary effects would be significantly higher and the consequences would be significantly worse than this gradual adjustment, although we have just recently changed the excise law more quickly by changing these excise rates than we initially committed and allowing us these accession commitments. It has been mentioned quite correctly, so Mr Horvat, Mr Złobec, on the individual rates that apply in the European Union and why Slovenia cannot. I have to give professional attention to why Slovenia cannot do this. The rule in the European Union is that the primary or original members established by the EU have the right to retain certain partial solutions during the transitional period until full harmonisation. All those countries that enter after that date do not have this right. This is a problem that we can no longer have these rates, and we cannot have zero rates for purposes, as some propose and similar things. Not because the government wouldn't want to. About books. Indeed, it was stated that from the zero stage in England - this is a perfectly correct statement, correct - and precisely because the UK took advantage of this right during a transitional period to full harmonisation, to apply a zero rate for the book and also for food and certain other things. Unfortunately, Slovenia, as I said, does not have that right. You see the example of Denmark, 25, where they have a general rate, where they also tax the book with a full general rate. Finally, I have to make it professionally clear that if we introduced a zero value added tax rate, hypothetically, we would not help Slovenian publishing. Why not? Then the foreign book, which would have been imported into the Slovenian territory, would also have been at zero levels and would have restored the same economic relations. This is also what we had in mind, only we did not want in the previous justification in more detail, because we thought they were known facts, but I must now, because this was mentioned in the debate, if we do not help the Slovenian publishing industry in this way to address its economic problems. This would not essentially be the solution. I wouldn't talk about Croatia. Croatia is aware of its severe consequences because it has only introduced a general level. Croatia is not in the pre-accession negotiations, there are no commitments made. In addition to the book, Croatia introduced this general level of tourism as the most vital economic activity. It doesn't make sense to lose words about it. And also about what the Member has repeatedly told us, because I am also responsible for the area of taxes and the customs system, around the unrecovered amount of taxes, as has been repeatedly proposed. That doesn't mean those taxes won't be paid. However, here is the protection and right, the legal right of taxpayers to operate on the basis of the legal rights they have to complain about delaying the payment of obligations in their deferred claims. I can assure you that we are closely, almost weekly, accompanied by the Minister, how things are going on, but it is known that the appeals and resolution procedures are very long and that the "step by step" is gradually being resolved. If there are new debts arising from this title, it is a different matter. So these 50 billion Slovenian Tolars are not tax write-offs, that's not the 50 billion - yesterday the director of the tax administration on TV made it very clear, about that number from the past period, from bankruptcys and similar matters - this amount is from the current and this is a living matter. This does not mean that we will not lead to the end of this, but it is a right that cannot be withdrawn from taxpayers. I wanted to explain so much. The commitment we have made to the National Assembly in this direction to explore options - we have prepared this. Not only will we review the value added tax law as such, but we will also define ourselves to all of these, I would say, legitimate proposals that appear and come to the table, that we will at least explain in general why the government takes the position it will take and what it will propose to the State Assembly for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. He's replicating Ambassador Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Tone is asking me to replicate Mr. Auschwitz, and I will do so. I'd say the following about quality. I helped domestic firefighters in their place to get a good car for free. Their problem was that they got too good a vehicle. We have such regulations that because they have improved their standard, they have been punished with more than a year's bureaucratic struggle so that they can arrange all the papers for this vehicle this way. And on this line, I cannot see in your debate what the right direction is. Now to what Mr Končan said. He said he spoke from a professional point of view and that a political commitment had been made in the pre-accession negotiations. I wonder on what basis they would promise me or assure me that the rate for the field of firefighting or the area we are talking about will be exactly that and that. I can't imagine how many things I know that this kind of political commitment could be given to me in our negotiations with the European Union. As we can see, they have these degrees and different degrees there. So I'd like an explanation here. I don't remember the firefighters negotiating that this could only be that much and that much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you. He's replicating the mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Can I? I would like to refer to the representative of the government, Mr Končan, regarding the competitiveness of the domestic book if we implement this bill in relation to foreign books. I don't think you're right here. A foreign book imported shall be subject to customs duty, not value added tax. It's no big deal. So the home book is easier to access in this way in a more favourable position for the buyer. That's all, I don't know that - because the competitiveness of a foreign book will change with customs duty. So in this context, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. One moment, please. Member Petan replicates first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Well, I don't think I understood the government representative very well. So if I'm gonna say something wrong, please fix me. This is the relationship: a foreign and domestic book. You said that if the VAT on the home book were lower or eliminated, there would also be no VAT on the foreign book. I'm not going to ask if that's true or not. It doesn't matter. But you said the foreign book would also be cheaper. That's what you said. We can check that in a magnetogram. Now I'm interested in something. It'd be cheaper to have a homebook. It'd be cheaper to have a foreign book. What's the problem? I think that if I want to buy Prešeren's poetry, I don't mind if Göthe is even cheaper in German because it's not an alternative for me. But it would be something else. If I understand correctly, then please correct me. Domestic would be cheaper and foreign would be cheaper. That's what you say. I could buy more domestics, as well as other people. I don't think that's bad, but I'm not sure there's a foreign book in such a competitive fight. I don't think so. More or less we could buy them - if I understood correctly. But you said it would be foreign and domestically cheaper. If that's what you said. Now, if you thought otherwise, that's different, and then please, if you can explain. But that's what was said, and we can prove it on the tape. But if the whole level is lower, the price is lower, I don't think it's any big deal. That's how we understood it, and that's what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The State Secretary Concan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	First, I'd like to answer Mr. Tiny. Therefore, at the customs tariff applicable in Slovenia, the customs rate on all imported books is zero. So it means there's no customs on any book. That's the last question I was talking about. The equalisation of publishing, thus helping to help Slovenian publishing, would not help if it were, say, a zero rate. For the foreign book would also be at a zero rate, and the same ratio would be exposed again. That is to say, what was said in the debate: we would not help Slovenian publishing in such a way as to introduce a reduced rate, because the same relationship is established to a foreign book.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Please, mag. The visceral!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Only a replica or explanation of the applicant’s intention. It is not intended to encourage in this amendment itself one book against other books. But the basic purpose of lowering, depending on the specifics, is to lower costs and lower the price of the book, even from those areas, and bring it closer to the Slovenian buyer. That's the basic purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	I thank you very much for not wanting to discuss any more, and I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which is the conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law - the reduced procedure - is not adopted." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude and we decide. We decide on the proposed decision. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 35, for 15. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 15.]] So, it means that the decision was taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 49. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE FUND FOR THE PAYMENT OF VICTIMS OF WAR AND WAR VIOLENCE - REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He does.]] The word has magic. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I see today is my day, and I'm glad that there will be more of them, just that something will be accepted, not just like that. Look. The main purpose of the novel law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence is to somehow accelerate the payment of these compensations, which are already recognised, that is to say, the rights to these compensations are already recognised by the basic law, and the purpose of the novel is to actually make certain things happen in some optimistically predicted deadlines arising from the novel. Another purpose is to accelerate the dynamics and to slightly raise the interest rate on bonds as part of compensation payments. The novelty of the law is particularly tanning the structure of people who are older, where, due to natural legality, mortality is higher than in the average population, and these beneficiaries are already hard to expect compensation. We need to know that the Compensation Fund Act has been adopted for a marathon long time, that there is now a somehow recognised right to compensation for these people; however, that the dynamics of paying this compensation are such that many will not experience it. It also follows from the law that these rights are hereditary, and in many families, family discussions will somehow develop for this compensation, if not worse. I think the most correct thing this National Assembly can do is that if it has recognised this right to these people, it is also an attempt to realize this right within a reasonable time. The first and fundamental point of this amendment is that in fact there could be compensation within the earliest period foreseen by the law itself, this is immediately after 15.1.2002. Therefore, as the first-signed proposer, I propose that the formal act on the basis of which compensation is paid - this is the decision on the amount of compensation - was generally issued to beneficiaries by 30.11. this year, which means that the decision may become legally binding and thus also provides a basic condition for payment at this first scheduled date, which is 15.1.2002. This proposal or this initiative was particularly encouraged by the fact that, for the time being, it did not detect any excessive activities of the Slovenian Compensation Society and not the Ministry of Economy. I apologize to Mr Pirkmajer, who has provided some clarifications on the Committee, but we have not seen a regulation in writing, unfortunately, so that we could expect compensation or compensation to these beneficiaries. I also have two letters from the Ministry of Economy before me, some instructions that have been issued to administrative units that provide some guidance in this direction, but there are no concrete moves here. And we fear that older people's structures will not be issued in time for a decision to expect compensation at the beginning of next year. Otherwise, the government says in its opinion that this proposal is unnecessary, as it will issue this decision within this time limit in most cases. We look forward to this, and we also see no reason why the government does not support this Article at least. The essence of Article 2 is that beneficiaries, who are also beneficiaries at other addresses, in particular from abroad, are treated equally as domestic beneficiaries and that they receive both cash works of 150 000 tolars and not just the first - and this is also the basic idea of why they should be treated differently. The third idea, or third, is that the non-cash part of the bonds is paid out: not in five, but in three instalments, in order to postpone the maturity of the first instalment bonds for one year, this is said to be accelerated. Once again, I stress, in particular, that this compensation is paid to those who are actually entitled to this compensation. He was at a number of general assemblies of local organisations, associations or society of exiles in Slovenia, and when I saw that structure of people there and also their desire to do so, it also encouraged me to approach this proposal as the first-signed proposer. He asked you not to use similar statements again, some demagogies, and I don't know what's in this bill. I would like to point out that this initiative is based on my assessment and assessment of all co-proposers of this bill, that it is a great and moral duty of this country to pay to these people what it has promised them at some reasonable time, given their age.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The word is given by the chairman of the board of Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You have received the Committee's report, so allow me to explain very briefly only the draft decisions proposed by the Committee. In doing so, I would say that the Committee has given a very thorough consideration to the proposal that opinions have been shared, which was seen then by the decision-making process, although it is precisely in the decisions that the Committee has drawn up, that consensus has been reached and these conclusions have been reached, although the basic decision is that the Committee proposes to the assembly that it does not adopt the law but that it adopts two important decisions. One as a proposal to the National Assembly to propose to the Government what to do; and the other as a decision of the Committee - and these two decisions take a large part into account the arguments or aim to justify why the proposer proposes this law in order to actually achieve this objective without adopting this law. In particular, the issue of dynamism or fear expressed by Ambassador Vizjak as a proposaler - the fear that the implementation of this law will be delayed in time. That is why the Committee proposes or has adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly, here it would allow itself to propose a more appropriate dictatorship, namely: "The National Assembly proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopt as soon as possible all necessary sub-laws and any other measures to issue the decisions referred to in Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Act on the Compensation Fund for Victims of War and Post-war Violence by the end of this year." Well, even with a certain date. It's about the hands. The second decision adopted by the Committee as a working decision and proposed directly to the Government is: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include, in an appropriate manner, a solution to which the beneficiaries of Article 13(4) of the Law, which has also obtained a right under the second title, will be considered only those beneficiaries who have already been compensated under that second title." The Committee considered that the main problems that were the motive for the drafting of the law could be solved. With regard to that proposal to raise the interest rate on bonds, however, the assessment prevailed that we actually had a very broad debate on the issue and also made decisions at the time of the adoption of the law and that there are no valid reasons why, now that it is not so long since the adoption of the law, there are no new moments to change the actual decision that we have taken at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Secretary of State, Dr. Pirkmeier, please. Come on, please turn it off. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Now it is. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to take another look at this subject, although the extensive debate on the repair or payment of compensation took place in this Chamber at the time of the adoption of the law itself. The reason or assessment of the situation submitted by the drafter of the law, with this assessment of the situation, of course, I can agree and the government agrees. The fact is that these are older people, the fact is that most or most of these people are on the verge of their lives and that there will be a number of such ones among them, who will either complete and pay full compensation or pay full compensation, they will not be able to wait. However, at the time of the adoption of the law, the Government has already proposed that compensation be paid or given in the form of bonds, which must have all the characteristics to be traded with, and that the holders of these bonds may receive the appropriate funds, the corresponding money as a purchase for the bonds sold. The debate that took place in the National Assembly on the characteristics of the bonds, since the proposal also contained a shorter period and a higher interest rate, was concluded in the light of budgetary arguments as reflected in the law currently adopted. As for the period within which the decision is to be issued, which is also one of the requirements of the law, the government insists on what it has written in its opinion - not that it would be inappropriate or similar, but that it is unnecessary, because they are binding the government on other laws, a specific law on administrative procedure to decide on such a request in due time. In so doing, let me draw attention to the fact that, of course, no one will be satisfied that the ability of the state or public administration to implement laws is always a very critical point in bringing people to their rights and that the same is true for the implementation of the law as it is now written, and would be the same for the law if it were written in the same way as the respected proponents propose. In the information, I can say that the relevant regulation is in preparation and is in intersectoral coordination and that it is possible for the government to adopt it next Thursday. I can also say that it is in preparation to draw up decisions that are intended to give this right, in such a way as to transfer data from a database that is at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or from the relevant administrative units - that this base will be transferred to a Slovenian compensation company, which will then automatically issue these decisions, in the same manner and in the same form as we receive, for example, an income decision. In fact, Article 1 is unnecessary from this point of view because it would not have any special effect either. While we are aware, of course, that this is a compensation that is only symbolically weighed down or indemnifies for all the suffering suffered by the beneficiaries in the previous period, while the government is aware of this, it is also aware of the restrictions imposed by today's generation of taxpayers on the collection of budgetary money. For this reason, the government proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yes, please. Mag. Petty Officer, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I'll be brief. In our parliamentary group, we have decided to support this bill. Indeed, we do not agree with the practice in Slovenia that rights are guaranteed in a strange way. Thus, in such a way that their validity begins a few years later or that the amounts to be determined are lost to real value. These are the key reasons for this. In addition, the natural state, as we say, is indeed going on for some, at last, a biological hour and, in terms of justice and responsibility of this country, it is worthy of payment by the time of their lives. Especially because these compensations are symbolic, symbolic. That is why, of course, we support these payments earlier than the basic law provides. Even with these changes, we know that compensations are thus being suspended and that their real value is being reduced in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you. Is there any other parliamentary group he wants? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like only to comment on the Government's statement that the Government's intention was to pay part of the compensation in the bonds it was trading with is almost literal statements. I am appalled that the government has consciously taken a decision to trade bonds that are a symbolic compensation for the suffering of physical and psychological violence and for the loss of family members. I think that this is extreme cynicism, that it is consciously put into circulation and into the market the means of trade which are intended to do so. I don't think that's the right way. I think the path is compensation and the meaning of such compensations, which are somehow more than some material satisfaction, some psychological and some principled satisfaction of something that has been wrongly done in history. I don't think that's an item of trade. And if this was the intention of the government to trade in this suffering of people and indirectly with compensation, I think that's not right and that's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Secretary of State Dr. Prikmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	Mr. Chairman! I just wanted to make it clear that it's not about the state trading. They will trade those who will take over these bonds. I think that this is a normal civilised way when it comes to a debtor not being able to meet his debt in time and then the holder of such a bond can sell it. This is usually the case in all areas. However, if it is a matter of recognition or symbolism, this recognition is already contained in the decision that such an excuser will receive - I hope this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Member Ašić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Otherwise, in the past, in the previous mandate and this, we have spoken a lot about it and, of course, the view is that, on the one hand, the country has fulfilled most of the obligations and requirements of the laws adopted in the past with regard to the victims of war in Slovenia and so on. Of course, on the other hand, there have also been disappointments over whether the height or the hands that have been reached in this law. However, I will not discuss this, but whether the law, as it is, will be realized, in particular in the deadlines that we have written in the original law, because I have a feeling - and this feeling is somehow confirmed by one district of the Ministry of Economy to administrative units, but also by the letter of administrative units addressed to the Minister, Mr Dimovski or more likely to have come to the Secretary of State, where the administrative units point out that there will be major difficulties in the implementation of the deadline as set out in the law. At the same time, I expected that, of course, a fairly long administrative procedure would be needed, although it appeared that this would be automatic, that administrative units would automatically send decisions to the Slovenian compensation company; it would issue decisions; and then the matter would be resolved. And that would be very nice and good, if that were true. This is not exactly the case, and you recognize this in the district that you sent on June 19th, which alerts administrative units that something will have to be done to enable the Slovenian compensation company to issue a decision and this will cause quite a new and additional work in administrative units, which we did not expect when we adopted the law. Therefore, to note even that they should not send them on their own, even though the law obliges them to do so, the decisions which have been made in the proceedings for eligibility or for the exercise of rights under the laws already mentioned and to wait for instructions. In this debate I would like mainly to appeal to you, Mr. Pirkmajer, and to your ministry to send a very serious letter to the administrative units in which they warn you that they do not have sufficient expertise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	Comrade Auschwitz, you're talking about a law that's already been passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	No, no! I'm talking about the implementation of this law. And the marriage is ahead of us, talking about changing deadlines that may be even more unrealistic, given what I have in my hands today. We are speaking exactly the same problem, and therefore the appeal - whether we receive this law today or not - is that the hands we already have are realized and therefore I appeal to the Ministry of Economy to resolve the problem as quickly as possible and to prepare such software so that no new employment is required and that this decision can be issued from existing databases as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It's a replica. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	I am replicating my colleague Ašić, especially in his upgrade, I would say statements, which I fully agree with. Above all, in the fact that the government was still a month ago - here I have a letter from the government as an opinion on the bill - it has provided that, in the vast majority, more than a majority of the decisions on compensation will be issued within the proposed deadline. Now, if I have understood Mr Pirkmayer correctly, he has expressed the hope that this year will be the case. That means that within a month things are as, a little more pessimistic as they were at the beginning. And if everything that was - say what we see and is on paper - in three months and fifteen days it was made that letter to administrative units; I am very, very afraid that it will be so. In particular, the aim of the applicants was to regulate, by means of a legal obligation, the issue of decisions at that time, so that compensation could then be paid. And nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. I would ask Members and Members of Parliament who are in the tower or elsewhere to occupy their seats, because I have counted that we have not been at this point in time. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to adopt the following decision for the economy. Come on, please, listen a little! "The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Fund for Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence shall not be adopted." Does anyone want to discuss this decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. Please let us vote. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present. For 31, against 15. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 15.]] The decision was adopted. We also have an additional decision by the Committee that the National Assembly should propose to the Government, as soon as possible, to adopt all necessary sub-laws and any other measures to issue the decisions referred to in Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Act on the Fund for Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence by the end of this year. Does anyone want to discuss this additional decision? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 for, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The additional decision was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE SUSTAINABLE RENEWALMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND EDUCATION OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE UCCURAL - REDUCTION PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The Chairman of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 10th meeting, on 9 May, the Committee first considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on earthquake reconstruction and promoting development in the Soča. In the general debate, we drew attention to the views of representatives of the municipalities of Bovec and Tolmin and, of course, also listened to the discussion of the development centre in question, which also gave in writing concern that things were going slowly. On first reading, the members of the Committee adopted a decision to adopt the law following a reduced procedure. Following the meeting on 15 May, on 15 May, we discussed the amendments to each article, namely the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8 and the amendment of Mr Alojs Sok to Article 5. On the basis of the amendments and opinions of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and Discussions, the Committee drafted certain amendments and amendments to the text of the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the draft law and adopted its amendments to Article 1, which was an amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then to Article 2, and finally adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly that the law be adopted by amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Gerencher. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Ivan Bozič, SLS + SKD, applied in writing. Mr. Christmas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! After three years, we are talking again about the law on the earthquake restoration of facilities in Posoča and the development of Posoča. At that time, three years ago, in this hall and television shows, we promised that this would be done in one year- that in one year everything that the earthquake did wrong in Posoča will be restored. This has not happened; a person wants to do a lot of things, but not so quickly, it has to be admitted. What's wrong is that last spring, in March, we got a promise to get this marriage in April, and we only got it today. [[So today we're looking at it, we got it three months ago.]] , and at two sessions so far it has not come to order; at the first even it has not been placed on the agenda, and at the second session we have not reached it. So I think it's a little irresponsible for us sitting in this room not to have adopted this law before, because those of us who, after three years, do not live in their own house, do not have their finances regulated, and it is much harder for them than for us who sit here and sometimes argue about things that we don't have to lose words about. This year, since autumn, we have actually been doing an earthquake recovery, especially this year, under the law on the implementation of the budget - when we adopted it, we have also talked about what is written in this law - which does not cover everything that is yet to be done in Soča. Also, if you remember, we accepted this year or last year. [[in a small hall]] It's already the law on solving the problems of damage to the Muraste Stream in Log under Mangart. That law will expire tomorrow, and this law will only be replaced and will regularly try to set matters straight in Logo under Mangart. Our parliamentary group will support the law as well as the amendments, the Committee's conclusions, as well as the amendments tabled by the SDS for Log under Mangart. I hope that we will do so by 2 p.m. today, because it does not matter that we draw something that has already been agreed upon on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Member Mamić, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u162	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. First of all, a nice greeting to all government representatives, as well as to those who follow us online! I came by mainly because of this, like Christmas, because I come from that end of Slovenia, namely from northern Primorska, and I meet people many times, including from Posoča, and they have warned me many times about the problems they have been plagued by for so long. Members of New Slovenia are disappointed at the pace, speed and extent of the earthquake reconstruction of Soča. The earthquake restoration of Soča is a disgrace to all Slovenia. I wonder how long it will be before normal living conditions are allowed for the people there. Following the adoption of the Amnesty Act, the Secretary of State said yesterday that Slovenia must provide prisoners with the same standard when they have it in Western Europe or Scandinavia. I now ask the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment when they intend to ensure to the inhabitants of the demographicly threatened areas, and in particular to the Societa affected by the earthquake, the same standard of living and housing as those of the European Union or Scandinavia. The saying of men is far from the eyes, far from the heart. Unfortunately, this proverb also applies to equitable regional development. What's a long way from the government palace is obviously a long way from the government's wallet. I'm sure it's true for all of Slovenia, not just the Posačje. We are all aware that Slovenia is even more centralised with the help of the current government. Soon national borders will disappear in the west and north, and the rest will be ethnic. The absolute national priority must be to protect our ethnic boundaries. If the Slovenian government continues its current policy in demographically threatened or border areas, we are threatened with the threat that Slovenian ethnic space will continue to be revived and that it will involve only Ljubljana quickly, increased by its surroundings. We must be aware that the countryside has always been a proponent of national identity, and therefore the goal of all the inhabitants of Slovenia must be to move evenly. Even those who live in Ljubljana or in a larger centre. The whole of Slovenia can't be just a city. Let's do something for the people in the country! The marriage of Slovenian ethnic space will certainly be facilitated by such a slow and modest earthquake recoveryThe Court or this law that we adopt. Is there nothing to worry about that our policy will make it possible for the Court to relate more to Italy in a few years than to Slovenia? The transport links of Soča to central Slovenia are so bad that they already feel as if they are two separate worlds. The one who doesn't walk on the Posača doesn't know that. He can't even walk because there's no way he can come from Kranjska Gora to Bovec. It is high time to start working seriously on the road connection between Posoča and Kranjsko Gora, which is a touristly highly developed area. Fast and secure road connections would have a positive impact on the social, tourist and economic development of Soča. Without a modern road with a tunnel, it is illustrative to expect the bloom of Soča, with this also Slovenia. We must be aware that roads must be the backbone to solve demographic problems. It is also regrettable that we have received comments from representatives of local communities in the affected area that they have not been adequately involved in the drafting of the legislative proposal. That's--I'll document it by seeing three churches on the ground that aren't even on our list of repairs, and they're just as broken because they weren't exceptions, they weren't built so badly that they didn't have to be repaired. I asked Mr Gantar a question at the very beginning of his mandate, he said that that was not true, then I told him that we would go to these facilities together to make sure. Then I posed the same question to Mr Kopač, the new Minister for Environment and Space, and on the phone, a woman, one of his secretaries, told me that it was envisaged for two 10 million sites, and I also referred this to those people who represent their interests. That's not true at all. He gave me data - or a woman gave me data - of two other sacral objects. I don't know if it's a hoax or something.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u163	Dear colleague, do you now explain your personal opinion or the opinion of the parliamentary group? It seems to me that the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u164	Emissary groups; this is the only way I have strengthened what I am going to say to the end. Thanks for the heads-up. The Soča was not only affected by the houses of the permanent residents, but also by the properties of the persons who occasionally come to the Soča. The latter were not covered by the law on earthquake recovery, so their properties are being largely destroyed. As we know, there was another natural disaster in Posoča six months ago. Literally, the beach almost wiped Log under Mangart overnight. At that time, Bajuk’s government, without major ceremonies and big words, did urgent, urgent work, and engaged in the prevention of demographic extinction in these places. The log under Mangart is proof that it can also be done enormously with small, minimum financial resources on condition that there is little goodwill among members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I also expect good faith in the restoration of the Court from the current government and also from the support of this Parliament. Finally, Members of New Slovenia support the proposed law, while at the same time reminding us of the slowness, rigour of choice, the criticism of the earthquake reconstruction of Posača and we propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to begin the project of building a modern road connection between Posača and Kranjska Gora as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Member Tanko, representative of the Social Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Socialist Party's Group, we believe that the reduced procedure for addressing the changes and supplementing the law on the earthquake recovery and promotion of development in Soča is not the most appropriate, since it significantly reduces the possibility of preparing comprehensive measures to give these natural disasters an opportunity not only to restore and restore their original state, but in particular to further development. According to the information available to us, I note that there is no recovery and will not be complete and that about half of the facilities will be exempted from the aid provided for a variety of reasons. This means that neither the original situation will be established. As usual, the most affected are those who are not in sufficient financial condition who do not have the possibility to obtain special opportunities to obtain favourable funds [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u167	I ask the honourable Members to calm down a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u168	mainly for the management of living conditions. [[..]] It is this particular population that is extremely attached to this area, because it also has an emotional relationship with it, and in fact the only marriage is that the area will remain permanently populated and nature preserved and maintained. I would like to warn you that it does not seem reasonable for us to limit aid to 60% of the standard to those who want to stay there, and to those who do not have sufficient resources, and to those who do not have enough resources, to 60% of the standard, plus the mortgage file for 20 years. I think you're the one who needs the most help that has the least and the most problems, not those who are already dealing with over-standard rehabilitation, it's with the renovation of weekends. It makes sense for me to draw closer to the preparation of the law to the congregations, especially the most affected ones, and to listen to its initiatives and reasons. This has not happened and therefore the solutions are mainly cabinet or institutional and are not sufficiently tailored to the needs, objectives and opportunities of people and are also neglecting the role of local communities. It is noted that the aid measures are not only not available for all but are also extremely complex. First, a few years or almost, according to the programme annexed, five-year renovation and reconstruction of the facilities will then be followed by five years of economic restructuring aid. It is said that all aid is somehow extended to ten years. I believe that this approach is not appropriate, should be significantly shorter, it is said that it should take place at the same time. Thus, it seems that all aid or all subordinated to the fatigue of the affected population, most of whom will be forced to find other ways and resources or to move away and sell damaged property to new, future temporary residents, probably for weekends; they have enough money and because the law equates them with permanent residents, they will easily come to the aid and rebuild the facilities. However, only objects will be restored and the landscape will slowly relax. And there's something else from the explanation. The costs of the state technical office amount to just over a billion 700, for a period of about two and a half years, which means that this office spent about 15% of all the money allocated to the Court during this period. We believe that this is extremely high and that this means more rehabilitation of bureaus and institutions than of Soča. In comparison, the costs of the state technical office are almost as high as the total economic aid for the restructuring of the Soča over the next few years. However, if we could still process this properly, the cost of the office is actually as high as economic aid. We think it's extraordinary, extremely large. Nevertheless, we will support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. He has also been reported as a representative of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Juri, perhaps someone else. That's why I'm interrupting today's session, and please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u170	If you'll excuse me. I am thinking, of course, just to express my support for the law and call, of course, for a brief debate to come to a vote and we are voting on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-29-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. And now I'm really breaking up the session. [[Laugh.]] Wait a minute, did I miss, did I make a Procedural proposal? [[...]] It's not. I therefore conclude the debate on the groups of Members. I'm adjourning the session, and I'm asking you to listen to the following announcement. We will continue the meeting on Wednesday, 4 July 2001, at 10 a.m. with the closing of the 8th item of the agenda - this is with the proposal for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; then, if prepared by the parent working body, we will come to the consideration of the interrupted 15th item - amendments and additions to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative; then we will proceed with the 5th point; then we will move on to the 30th point just interrupted; then to the 31st item in order. I'm sorry, I've interrupted the session and, of course, it's over for today. Thank you.
