ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Bojan Kontič, Ferri Horvat, Villa Trofenik, Danica Simšič and Janko Weber. Since we will be able to detect presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're picking up the presence! I think there's more of us in the hall than the screen showed. Therefore, I am asking you very much for your attention, because it is a condition for us to start today's work to ensure the contiguousness. I'd like to ask you once again to insert the cards and press the "quorum" key together. We're picking up the presence! In my second observation of attendance, I find that we are in Chamber 36 means that we are inconclusive. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the third time we shall determine the presence after a 15-minute break, i.e. at 14.22.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, for the third time we will determine our presence, I ask you politely for peace in the Chamber. Please insert the cards and press the "quorum" key because the third time, in accordance with the rules of procedure, we determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. There are 57 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I very much welcome. Today's meeting of the 9th session of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 8th item of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Feed Law. At today's meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly agreed that the assembly would consider item 9 of the agenda, which is the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, starting at the next meeting at 10 a.m. tomorrow. This is why the assembly will now move on to the remaining agenda items, 29th, 30th, 31st and 37th agenda items. So we're going to move on to 8. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a stern law, a quick procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a new proposal for a feed law on 7.11.2001. At the same time, by letter, the assembly informed them that it was withdrawing the proposal for a feed law [[EPA-218 / III]] from the legislative procedure. The assembly will therefore consider under this item the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposal for a feed law, a rapid procedure [[EPA-218 / III]] , from the legislative process. You received a motion for withdrawal on 9.11.2001. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We move on to a decision on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposal for a feed law, a rapid procedure [[EPA-218 / III]] , from the legislative process. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against 6. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw that proposal from the legislative procedure has been adopted. This is the legislative procedure on the proposal for a feed law [[EPA-218 / III]] Quick procedure, complete. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We're moving to 29. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxis, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite the government to join us. Since I have received a message that the government representatives have been explicitly warned that they will be in line immediately at the beginning and that they are not among us, allow us to proceed. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u3	It's gonna be a little harder. It is a law proposed by the Government to be adopted in this National Assembly following a rapid procedure. First, I would say that it is a law that would reduce taxes after most, regulate things by stimulating the first entries in the land book and so on. I must say that, in addition to what the Government has proposed, different institutions have responded to this proposal of the law, such as the Slovenian Judicial Society, the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Notary of Slovenia, and that we have considered on the Committee all these comments and, of course, the comments of our secretariat, which pointed out to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u4	Dear colleagues! I don't think the chairman of the committee can present the opinion of his mother's working body because of loud talk. Therefore, I ask you kindly to allow him to present his opinion as he pleases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u5	I'll cut it short. The Committee agreed to a rapid procedure. The Committee agreed with the bill. The Committee has drawn up its amendments, which were practically unanimously adopted and, of course, has also proposed a decision to adopt the law, together with the amendments proposed by the Committee, of course. However, the amendments are prepared on the basis of comments made by the secretariat, the judiciary and the Notary Chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] As I have also not received written applications for the debate, the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want a word? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 13.11.2001, and as the chairman of the Committee has said, only the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee are in this review. I shall give Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 for discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have decided since Article 1 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Since the amendment under Article 1 is substantively linked to the two amendments to Articles 10 and 24, we will also vote on these two. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision first to vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 10 has been amended. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 24. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 24 has been adopted. We return to the first page of the review and move on to the debate and decision on the amendment to Article 6 and Article 6 in full. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 7 and on the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 8 and on the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 13a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and so has a new Article 13.a. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. I think there's a lot more of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? And not just for attention, but for pressing one of the keys. This is the second time we have decided on the amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 44 present at the first vote. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Rules of Procedure, which dictates the way we work, require that Members and Members, under the many amendments that we have before us, be given a measure of attention. Therefore, I really ask that we focus on voting and therefore also press one of the keys. Otherwise we'll have to stop working again. But there are more than enough of us in the hall, and we are therefore in agreement. We are re-declaring Article 15 as a whole. We'll make a decision next time. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new 23rd Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 23rd was adopted. Since we have adopted the amendment to Article 24, we still need to make a full decision on Article 24. We're voting. The first vote was not successful again. Secondly, we shall vote on Article 24 in full. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for the new Article 24a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 24a has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment and Article 28 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There are more of us present than the screen shows. There's 60 of us in the hall. Secondly, we are voting on the amendment to Article 28. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 32 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to Article 32. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the amendment to this Article to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We have held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13a, 15, 23a, 24, 24a, 28, 32 and 35. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since there are also no amendments to the third reading, I ask, pursuant to Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Government for their cooperation very much. Representatives of the secretariat also thank you very much. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICE LAW, REDUCTION OF PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Jerovsk. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! By a decision of the Constitutional Court of 21.9.2000, the Constitutional Court decided that the first indent of Article 7a of the Decree establishing and the tasks of the committee of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: 'and the criminal service of the Ministry of the Interior', shall be repealed because the provision does not have the appropriate basis in the law. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has decided that the Institute of Parliamentary Oversight is not in breach of the Constitution, but only its implementation. At the same time, it found that the failure to exercise constitutional, parliamentary supervision would constitute an even worse possibility of human rights violations, giving a one-year probationary period within which the relevant authorities should prepare an amendment to the law on police or relevant laws so that the Supervisory Board would regain its legal framework in the area of control over the part of the criminal police which has the possibility of using specific methods and means. It is the fact that these intelligence services may have a significant impact on human rights when they act in violation of their powers. And in this case, the legal security of individuals would be jeopardised if such control were not by Parliament. This protection of human rights is, however, intended for legal supervision. I must point out that the amendments and additions to the Police Act, which have been tabled by the members of the Security and Intelligence Commission for the supervision of the work of the security and intelligence services, do not regulate parliamentary supervision of the criminal police in a new way. That was earlier in the decree, and now we are putting the legal framework into the law on the police. I think that we have given a good law, a basis which, based on the experience that is not yet sufficient in this country, would allow for effective, real control over this part of the operation of intelligence services. It is of particular importance that the National Assembly, through its committees, also supervises the activities of intelligence services. In doing so, I must remind you that what the government has tabled as an amendment to such a proposal, its amendment, which states that the proposal of Members is incomplete and incomplete, that Members, in fact after this framework, have rejected the internal policy commission, - in my opinion, the law of the Members has been too specific and too perfect for the police, and in this light it is necessary to look at this amendment of the government. And I hope that in the very process of finalizing this law, we will actually adopt some [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which was given and adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy and thus provided the basis for the comprehensive supervision of the parliamentary commission to oversee intelligence services over that part of the criminal police work, which also has specific methods and means. [[...]] I must also draw attention to the provision in the Constitutional Court's decision, which states that judicial control of police work is not sufficient, as the Constitutional Court's decision in recital 9 states: "The judicial control is not complete." At the same time, the Constitutional Court states: "The broad powers of interference with human rights and the control of information that can be used across borders and that these intelligence services have, therefore, the establishment of effective control. The principle of the division of power in parliamentary democracy gives rise to the competence of Parliament or of a special parliamentary body to control activities," says the Security and Information Services' activities as to whether the content of the data and information they acquire, the way they are obtained and made available to them in the context of what is provided for in the Constitution and legislation." These are extremely important findings and referrals from the Constitutional Court and should by no means allow the State Assembly to go beyond these to the Constitutional Court. So much in the presentation of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. The additional report that you received, I fear, on the tables, shows that the debate on the committee was varied, so, of course, the report is more similar to a record than the report that we have been used to so far. So it must be said that it is only a matter of complementing the law on police, and in fact a substantive article. But the discussion was very intense. Indeed, there was a task ahead of us that we simply were not a part of, as is evident from the report, that we have dealt with the text from paragraph to paragraph and have thus drawn up the Committee's amendment proposal to this Article. What's this all about? So it's about how to establish and where to establish a border between what is powerful and right to control, and between what is not actually controlled, because it is the same in the world. I will add only that the opinions on the amendment itself prepared by the government were, of course, different, from that it is a perfect step backwards, to that the amendment of the government is okay and that it is worthy of support. Most, as I mentioned, in the way I mentioned it, have come to the conclusion that we have proposed an amendment to the Government's amendment to the National Assembly. It should also be said that the secretariat believes that the text itself is better in some parts of the text, i.e. the Government's amendment. Therefore, it is, of course, necessary to apply the article offered by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. A respected choir! The Government supports efforts to regulate the area of security and intelligence control. In this regard, it follows the position of the Constitutional Court, which found in the repeal decision that the supervision of security and intelligence services is necessary and that this also applies to the supervision of the criminal police service as one of the security services in that country. The supervision of the criminal service is additionally extremely sensitive because it is a matter relating to the contact of the two branches of government on the one hand with the parliamentary side, on the other hand with the judicial or judicial side, given that the criminal procedure or the predictive procedure is under the supervision or direction of the prosecution and under the supervision of the investigating judge. Therefore, despite the initial opposition that this extremely sensitive issue should be addressed only through a transitional provision of the Police Act, we have made it clear, however, that due to the specificity of the supervision of criminal services, this area should be regulated by a law governing the police area. We therefore insist that, by means of a transitional provision, this issue be settled in the manner required by the Constitutional Court until the new system law in this area, which is also in preparation, is put in place. However, this is an extremely important direction that the Constitutional Court has drawn up in this regard. In view of the need for a legal basis, the legal basis for this control must be fully established and the key definition of the boundaries of this control. And here the approach developed by the Commission in its proposal differs somewhat from what we have drawn up in the government. We are convinced that the proposal by the Supervisory Commission, as regards the aspect specifically highlighted by the Constitutional Court, is, however, somewhat overly relaxed, but that it is not sufficiently established that the limits of this control are not sufficiently defined. Therefore, in the government, we have prepared our amendment to this amendment, the proposed amendment to Article 126.a, which differs from the Commission just after very clearly defined and specifically defined in the definition proposed as an addition, we define the limits of control. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the important distinction already in the first paragraph, namely that control can only be carried out in the manner specified in the subsequent paragraphs. That's what they say, second, third and fourth paragraphs. The form of control shall be clearly assessed and limited by the content in these paragraphs. Secondly, we have very precisely foreseen what the mandatory components of the report should be, which is mandatory, which, after this proposal, the Ministry of the Interior must submit to the National Assembly or to this Commission twice a year. It seems to us that there would be an important conceptual difference if we met the proposed exemplifying list. We therefore insist that the mandatory components of this report be precisely determined. And that nothing, except what the law lists, is the content of this report. And then there's the third one. In the fourth paragraph of this provision, this Article shall specify the forms of so-called direct control. Forms in which the Commission can directly verify, on the spot, that the legal basis of this control is being exercised. This is, however, to identify, on a case-by-case basis or on the total number of specific investigation measures taken, whether a legal basis has been established for it. That's what you call an investigative judge's regulation. This is what the limits of this control are, including supervision under Article 49 of the Police Act, where special measures are issued under this Act by the Director-General of Police. In short, our proposal, the government proposal, is going towards the precise definition of the direct control borders and also the border of control through the precise content of the report. Important distinction also refers to the question of what the content of control is. According to our proposal, which is based on a truly carefully collected comparative legal and professional analysis, this type of control should be solely control of legality. This means that the implementation of such measures is more consistent with the legal basis for such measures. In short, to determine whether these measures are indeed implemented and to the extent specified by the order of the investigating judge or other competent authority. No, and there's a difference, control of activity in general. We therefore objected to the inclusion in the provision of a "control of activity" dictatorship and insist that this is the control of legality, in the manner very specifically defined in this provision. In short, I propose that you accept the Government's arguments on this extremely sensitive issue of contact with oversight, parliamentary oversight and judicial supervision, because it is focused on a very in-depth examination of this issue, and to avoid adopting a regulation that might not meet modern standards in this area in an hasty manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party SLS + SKD will be presented by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group fully supports the law supplementing the law on police, art. 126.a. In principle, we agree with the proposers. In opening, I would like to point out that we were very surprised by the Government's amendment to the Supplement to Article 126, because, for example, in Point 2, the Intelligence Supervisory Commission could only have an insight into statistical data or only the number of measures taken. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Commission cannot in this way ensure permanent and legal control over the activity or legality of the work of this service. The fact is that we have also thoroughly examined the amendment of the committee to the government's amendment and we fully support it. That is why our parliamentary group will support all amendments to the government's amendment. In some ways, the government has been aligned to support these amendments. In view of this, the President-in-Office, that there is yet another amendment to the Committee's amendment, in particular to proposers of the United List and Liberal Democracy and DeSUS, we would like you to set a fifteen-minute break after the conclusion of the debate on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party SLS + SKD Group, and please take this into account so that we can define those articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! We agree that this law must be adopted, that is, in Novi Slovenija; I myself have been a signatory to this proposal. In fact, there has been a legal void on how to control security and intelligence services and thus provide constitutional or constitutional control of the legislative authority over the executive branch. Security and intelligence services, in particular, provide national security, in the application of their measures, and specific measures can quickly go to another field, which means reducing human freedoms and human privacy. So, Slovenia needs this law, we need this law, and that is why we support the adoption of this law. In view of the amendments proposed, however, it will become an even more delicate question, how to control what will not be formally presented to the Commission, but will be in a grey field, the use of what is not recorded. That's what another word would mean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware of the necessity of parliamentary control over the work of intelligence services. We regret that the state does not yet have a statutory law on the control of security and intelligence services, but we are all the more aware that abandonment of any security and intelligence activity, the abandonment of some control would be in great harm and a great danger to the level and standards of human rights and the rule of law in that country. For this reason, we fully support this law, the amendment of this Police Act, which restores the legal basis for effective control of that part of the intelligence activity concerning the criminal police, to the supervision of the parliamentary commission of intelligence services. However, these special methods and means can, of course, be very thoroughly or radically applied to human rights guaranteed by their abuse. As such, Parliament must be concerned with the systematic doubt that the methods of intelligence services are not being misused against fundamental human rights. This must work and this systematic doubt must be present, and a suitable law is also important for such effective control. In this respect, in the Social Democratic Party, we particularly agree with the Constitutional Court's opinion that judicial supervision alone is not effective enough and does not cover all segments of the operation of intelligence services and that the content of the operation of intelligence services is also important in monitoring. As a result, we are so much more surprised by the way the government has read this Constitutional Court decision, which is extremely clear in its dictatorship. The Constitutional Court is extremely clear that not only the content, activities and so on, but also the next point stresses that parliamentary supervision should also cover the budget of intelligence services. How to use it. We do not require that in this law, nor do we foresee it. However, it is clear from that point on that point that we have limited ourselves to a narrower framework. As a result, the government's ongoing attempts, including the latest proposal, are all the more surprised by the fact that through the Liberal Democracy Group, DeSUS and the Consolidated List, this effective supervision of the work of the criminal police would be reduced as much as possible and reduced to statistical data alone. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this Chamber, we are aware that the possibilities of an effective, effective parliamentary supervision of the work of intelligence services are extremely limited, that we will always and probably also be "clapping" for the practice of these services, and if we are still limited to the ideas of the government, then there will be no effective monitoring of intelligence services in this country. And there will be their abuse. I think that no one in this Chamber wants this, and therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I call for us to adopt a coordinated amendment to the government's amendment, which we have drafted on behalf of the Home Affairs Commission. I must point out that there was a high knowledge of what this control should look like and what the law must record and what must be enabled. And I think that agreement is an undertaking for this national assembly to adopt the law in such a form as was adopted there by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jelinčič also presented himself in writing on behalf of the Group of Members. I would politely ask because we are in the stage of presenting the opinions of the groups in question, so that you can contact me in due time. Mr Jelinčič noble, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Slovenian national party supports and will support the law we have tabled by the Members. This is a law amending and supplementing the law on police. The fact is that the Constitutional Court had already ordered Parliament to regulate these matters. However, it is essential that Parliament should be able to control all intelligence services. What the government then did when it tried to stop its amendment from controlling intelligence is actually a terrible thing. This means that Parliament and its Commission would actually go to the level of one that would review only statistical data. We have specialised institutions in Slovenia to review statistics, and we do not need Parliament to do so. However, we need Parliament to ensure that certain intelligence services or services in general do not have the right, as they already have, and as they wish to have it again. If the law is not adopted as it is, and if the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy is not adopted and the amendment of the Government is adopted, then we are in the same position as the entire public in the former Yugoslavia until 1974 or later, when it was necessary to prove that you are innocent, but not that the premise already known by Roman law was that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. We will return to the Stalinist method, when people will have to hang around the door and look for evidence of innocence, while all intelligence services will be able to afford everything; there will be no control over them. I'm surprised the public didn't turn to the matter of not taking it for granted. I also missed the effects of the Slovenian professional democratic public; maybe they didn't understand, maybe they don't think they'll investigate them, maybe they think they'll leave them alone, and because they're quiet now, they'll be exempt from a variety of procedures that we can't control. The Government's amendment states that only continuous control of the legality of police work should be allowed in the exercise of the powers laid down in Article 49 of this Act. What does that mean? To come, say, the Minister or the Director-General of the Police and he will say, "Mrs, this and this matter has been done in accordance with this and this article of the law," and we will say, "thank you very much." We can't do anything anymore, not look or control, not anything, and behind, but behind all this, we can hide everything. It is therefore up to me, as well as the entire parliamentary group, that this law should be adopted and certain amendments should be adopted. But if there was anything else I could warn you about, it could be a mistake, it could be a deliberate mistake. In fact, with the date 12.11.2001 we received a table review of the amendments to the bill, and the right above says "new". The amendment tabled by the Internal Policy Committee, which also says "new", with the same date, states: "Amendment of the Internal Policy Committee on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the fourth line of the first paragraph of Article 126a of the amendment of the Government, the word 'activities and' is added after the word 'over'." Now let's see how perfidious that was! In fact, in the fourth line of the amendment of the government we also have the word "over", and if we put "activity and" in the fourth line, the possibility remains, in fact, that there is only constant control over the legality of police work, because in this case the amended amendment would read as follows: "To enable the working body of the national assembly responsible for the supervision, activity and the work of security and intelligence services to keep the lawfulness of police work under constant control." As it should be written, this amendment should read: 'It should enable the working body of the national assembly responsible for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services to keep the activity and legality under constant control'. Madam President or Madam President! I would ask that the relevant services, which I think have committed a misinterpretation, correct this amendment before the vote. Otherwise we won't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group is still in the stage where we present the opinions of the parliamentary groups, and the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President! Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Joint List Group, we agree that the law on police law needs to be supplemented. We believe that it is very useful that Members have drawn up a proposal for a law in order to make the time frame within which the state will remain unsupervised over, I say, the criminal police as short as possible. At the same time, we point out that this is an extremely important matter, but also a matter which should be clear in order not to allow abuse on the part of the police, but to be sufficiently clear at the same time about the obligations the police have towards the authorities to control its operation in the use of specific operating methods and means of work, because otherwise there may be unnecessary misunderstandings and differences which result in less effective controls and perhaps unnecessary politicisation. I would point out this because it would be right for the National Assembly to recall that the decision of the Constitutional Court, to which we all rightly also proposers of the law, is based, is precisely because the interpretation of the provisions between the Commission and between the competent minister was not the same, and because the then competent minister, not the current Minister, Dr Rado Bohinc, considered that it required the Commission to communicate the names of the persons who carried out certain operational activities to be inconsistent with the law. On this basis, since the Commission had second opinions, the constitutional dispute was also raised on its part. The constitutional dispute resulted in the repeal of the decision governing the competence of the Commission to supervise the work of the special services. I have tried as thoroughly as possible to read the decision of the Constitutional Court and would allow myself from it to take some conclusions. First, that parliamentary supervision is undeniably necessary and necessary. There is no debate on that. Special parliamentary supervision, as stated in point 9 of the decision, is intended to monitor the activity of security and intelligence services, but activities relating to the content of data and information they acquire, the way they are obtained and made available to them, within the framework of what is provided for in the Constitution and legislation. So control, control is over respect for the Constitution and laws, in the circle of issues of content acquired, the way in which these information is obtained and made available. But still within the framework of the Constitution and the law. Secondly, it seems to me that it is important in this decision of the Constitutional Court to determine, or at least as I see it, that the Constitutional Court has assessed that, given that the nature of the act which decided on the competence of the Commission was a decision, it was not appropriate, in the view of the Constitutional Court, because the issue of the content of control should be governed by law because it was a matter of human rights. It therefore repealed this Decree in its entirety by a deferral period of one year that the nature of this act did not require the Constitutional Court to provide a substantive definition. For this reason, the definition of whether the content of the decision was as set out in the decree was neither confirmed nor rejected. I don't want to say either, and I don't want to say either, but I'm reading this way, and I'm reading it in the mission group. If anyone wanted to say so, so far it has been properly arranged, perhaps, or if someone said so, it is not a final decision, even possible. The Constitutional Court has given itself time and space to decide, in the event of a constitutional dispute, when the content of control is regulated by law, whether it is regulated in accordance with democratic principles and ensuring the fundamental protection of human rights to which it is intended, including this control. Third, referring to the world's arrangements, and in particular to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that it is very important that all the provisions concerning services, their activity and their control are clear and indisputable. Certainly so with regard to the rights they have, and clearly with regard to the control they are subject to. Any ambiguity may also cause such or other inadequacies. That is how I understand this provision. That is why I was happy when we first learned in the preparation of this law that the government and the competent ministry agree that the law is needed and supported. Secondly, we have found on the committee that the proposed amendments of the government can be a better basis than the law itself for substantive regulation, and in fact, we have made a number of efforts to bring about harmonisation or clear texts. But in the end, at least after I understood it, we didn't finish it, because then on the homework body without the opportunity and the possibility of things being coordinated, decisions that might not have been made, I would say, were completely premeditated. This is an extremely sensitive matter, which must be sufficiently uniform in each word, but not in different ways interpreted. This was also the reason why we agreed in the Group of Members to try to find better and more appropriate solutions after the amendments already adopted in the Labour Force, and therefore I, on behalf of the Group of Members, also signed the amendments tabled today. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular the Group's wish not only to adopt the law, but to really fulfil the difficult task it has set out - because it did not for the first time - to draft the so-called roof law within three months. We know that he has been prepared for several years and that it is not easy to prepare him, but that he is really prepared, that we can think of him by the end of the day, that we should not, on the one hand, interpret, without need, the powers and tasks of the services and the commission, and that there would be no unnecessary uncertainties and differences on this basis. Otherwise, let me conclude that it is probably right for all of us when we consider the amendments to this law, to know that the supervision of the protection of human rights in the law is, in many ways, very detailed. It is in detail regulated by the powers vested in the judicial authorities to decide that individual measures may be taken in general and that judicial authorities, in the case of criminal proceedings, also assess the courts as to whether information has been obtained lawfully and in accordance with the powers conferred on them by that service, otherwise they cannot be used. Any person affected by the criminal procedure shall then also know directly. However, as regards acts not going into criminal proceedings because they have been committed in the pre-trial proceedings, jurisdiction in one part of the prosecution is again the responsibility in one part of the prosecution, and indeed in one part only the director of the police, but the duty to do so within six months. If the proceedings are under way, there is judicial review again, if it does not go into proceedings, but must be informed that they were against him, I would say that these and these methods have been applied, which have not produced results, and that all the documentation and all the material on this basis has been destroyed and cannot be used in any other case. I think that in this part human rights security is clearly and accurately written down and that is correct. In particular, whether the provisions of the law are applied in this way, I think our parliamentary commission should also be concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we support the bill. There is no question within the Group of Members whether it is necessary to establish control over security intelligence services. Of course, we are also aware of the sensitivity of this subject, the complexity of matter. That is why we have taken sufficient time to reflect on the extent and manner of this control. We fully agree with the findings and arguments of the bill's proponent that the Constitutional Court is directing control of the intelligence and security services. In developing parliamentary democracy, particularly in the European Union, the control of security services is organised not only within the system but also about external control, external control, whether it is carried out by the executive, legislative or judicial authority. We believe that the constitutional principle of the division of power must also be taken into account in this matter. We believe that there is a need for control among ourselves. The Executive Authority should be responsible for the effectiveness and legality of the security services. However, Parliament or its designated and responsible body should verify that the security services operate within the limits of the powers given to them. That request shall also include a decision of the Constitutional Court referred to therein. However, the judiciary must decide on the eligibility of the individual measures by which security services interfere in human rights. When we talk about the police law and the powers the police have, we must always separate two kinds of powers. The one on the basis of the law on criminal procedure and the ones that were passed by the law on police. This National Assembly, as a legislative body, has already authorised the police to carry out certain measures affecting human rights, but it has assessed that such tasks do not require specific external control. In the parliamentary group, we will support the amendments of the government and, above all, the amendment that is in preparation and which Members and Members will receive during this debate is still on the table because we believe that it is a better basis than that of the Members who have tabled the law. This is mainly because we are trying to define more precisely where the supervision of the work of the security services, in this particular case of the police, should go to in the part where it exercises the powers of the CAP and of the 49th section of the Police Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Franz Kangler applied to the debate in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to meet myself and some of the members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission personally in relation to this supplement and some of the other problems that have resulted in this law being dealt with. That is why I will try to keep my speech discreetly so that I will not violate the rules, especially those rules that do not give me the opportunity to talk to the public about what our committee for the supervision of intelligence services finds. I'm sorry, I can't speak publicly about this right now, at least personally, in a meeting we have today. However, I will direct some of the things that are urgently needed and further measures to be taken in this country if we are to have parliamentary democracy. It is no coincidence that, irrespective of the party, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are almost all members of the Commission proposing this law. Have any of you, especially some who can be very substantively and deeply absorbed in this law, even though they have not sat for a day on a committee to oversee intelligence services, asked why we did so? I'm going to try a few things down and describe for a while. The sadness for the democracy we have is that parliamentary democracy has not had the right law for ten or eleven years to oversee all the Slovenian intelligence services working in this country. Do any of you or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia ask why there is no such interest in ensuring control? Do you Members even know what is happening to our intelligence services? Do you even know how our commission can control these jobs? Some of you talk in three days. You're talking to me. However, if your fellow Member, who is a member of this committee, were to ask what is going on in these services, what is going on in our committee, we would have spoken differently in this Chamber. In the beginning, I must sincerely, on my behalf and on behalf of, I hope to have the courage to thank all the members of the Commission, Minister Bohinac, who has consistently allowed the Commission effective, legal and continuous control of the criminal service, and at the same time the Director of Police and Criminal Services. Let me introduce you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, to date we have had a full view of specific methods and means, full legislation, including content. This year, what we control and control, there was not a single problem that would arise between this job, including the minister, and our commission. On the contrary. The Commission, the parliamentary supervision we have carried out, and we members of the Commission have been more than too pleased. That's not the problem with our Slovenian police, believe me, we've been satisfied with the commission so far. However, it is necessary to read the decision of the Constitutional Court in full and well. With this problem, which we are facing today in this Act, in addition to Article 126a, we will meet, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, under the umbrella of the law. This is what the Slovenian government is afraid of. I ask myself, as a member of the Commission, whether the Slovenian Government is even competent to bring into the National Assembly such a law that gives Parliament, Parliamentary parties or this committee permanent, legal and effective control of these services. I believe they have that authority. However, I wonder whether it is morally, politically wise for the government to propose such a law to those who are supposed to carry out these tasks. If I come back a little bit from memory, I myself have been a member of the commission in the previous term. The Slovenian State has had quite a few affairs where some prominent political officials were directly or indirectly involved. In the middle of the white day, we get a van to Croatia, in the middle of the white day, intelligence agents break into a car that he left for only 5 minutes and take away a bunch of classified material, protected persons at the time of the merger of the two parties alienate a passenger car, a few burglaries into the homes of some Members, and there is an affair of "reputable weapons". A number of affairs were planned, but they were not carried out because some of the information of the actors came to the public or to some politicians before something happened. If you do not believe - it is a pity that there are no more fellow Members and colleagues in this Chamber to face the bare truth - if I do not believe, let the other members of this committee speak. To keep this in mind, at the beginning of our work, we demanded that we get our own room in this National Assembly, which is regularly equipped with all electronic devices, illegally inspected, and let us not bring any electronic or other items into this room. Have any of you wondered why a problem arose with one of the intelligence services that refused to enter this area? Did any of you wonder that until that day, until we got this room, these gentlemen from this service did not require a magnetogram of the meetings of our committees? And from that day forward, they're asking for a magnetogram of the meetings. Did any of you ask yourself that? He didn't. How would you, respected members of this House, view that one of the officials responsible for the work of these services in front of the Members sitting in that Chamber, room, lying to you? I don't want to talk about names and jobs. And it's a lie once and five times and more. How should we react? It is not in our interest to create a problem in the public in such a way as to refer to press conferences, to send some information and other similar information to the public, to manipulate the Slovenian public and to anyone else. It is in our interest, however, that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia finally have effective, legal control over these services. This imposes a decision by the Constitutional Court, which I will quote precisely, which states: "As a rule, the person affected by these measures at the time of their enforcement, and often also subsequently, is not aware," which I agree in some way with the system of work [[I'm talking about point nine.]] . "The Court of Justice is not complete," the Constitutional Court finds in this decision. Judicial control is not complete - constitutional judges wrote that down. Both increase the possibility of abuse. The broad powers of interference with human rights and the management of information that can be used on a pervasive basis also point out that this information, which is held by intelligence services and other authorities which are meeting to be used by the parties, is therefore a requirement for effective control. Let's take a deep look at the contents of what I've read. Next. The principle of the division of power in parliamentary democracy gives rise to the competence of Parliament or of a special parliamentary body to monitor the activities of security and intelligence services as to whether the content of the data is data, it is said that the Constitutional Court requires that the supervisory board have a view of the content of the data and information. That's what the Constitutional Court wrote down. Some Members here today speak differently in what information and in what content of the data they obtain by way of their acquisition and availability in the context of what is provided by the Constitution and legislation. Thus, the Constitution and legislation give the possibility of operating to intelligence services and the Constitutional Decision gives Parliament the possibility, with regard to the granting of power to parliamentary democracy, to monitor the content of data and information if they are obtained in accordance with the Constitution and legislation. This is in line with this decision adopted by the Constitutional Judges, and we must respect that. What I've read, where we have insight. Dear Members and Members! Tell me how to provide control over one of the intelligence services that the law gives her the opportunity to use special measures and methods and to us, when we come to the supervision of this service, the director of the service shows the regulation on which it says: Head of Service, I allocate personal resources and methods, to the pseudonym of the person, no reason why it is not clear whether the content of the information collected was lawfully collected, whether it is our or a foreign citizen or something like that, because I am not allowed to speak at a public meeting. Is that a surveillance thing for you? When you ask the director of this service, on what basis did he decide to approve this measure, because the order itself does not show what the content of the measure is or how it was requested, he tells you that under the law. Do you care what these jobs do? To me and probably to those citizens who voted for me to be in this room today, believe me, it doesn't matter. In the previous term, it has happened several times that some of the information we discussed on this committee for the supervision of intelligence services has appeared in public before we were able to reach our seats, rooms, offices, or we could read almost literal content the next day in the newspaper. Since that day, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, since we have a special room, believe me, that we have not recorded any such omissions by members of the Commission, if I may express myself so as to indicate that he has put any information into the public or the content of any of us members of the Commission. On the contrary. We have even made sure and we trust each other so much that we suspect, unwarrantedly, some indications suggest that some of the intelligence services or individual actors may be serving in order to discredit this commission or individual members of this commission, some of the data that has actually been dealt with on this committee, in a public way that someone in this country can point to us that we are not safe. That's what's going on, my respectable fellows. But I must stress, from the moment we have this room, which provides us with an overview of all who enter the room itself, and no one can wear any electronic or other devices, these things and such things do not appear in the means of public information anymore. Why am I talking about this? I am speaking because sooner or later in this mandate, at least I hope, we will meet with a umbrella law which is the legal basis for us to be able to satisfy the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this direction in order to ensure permanent, effective and legal control of these services. I could speak even more concretely, but I think, honourable Members and Members, that I have put in mind enough information, which I hope, not only, but also, I am sure, will be confirmed by the other members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. We members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission would like to discuss this in this year or early next year at a closed-door meeting on the situation of certain services and on the way in which we work, since it would certainly be interesting content and some of the arguments we have found in the control. Some of the events that have already taken place in this mandate, including within the National Assembly, will not convince me that this is just an accident, but I do not want to talk about these events at the moment; however, my colleague Jerovšek may speak to you about this, and my colleague Moje or Jelinčič or any other member of this Commission may tell you about this. I therefore call on all Members to support this law, to support these amendments, and regardless of the party, we must be in our interest, because we Members are called upon to ensure this supervision of the intelligence services, regardless of what individual members of the government think. Once again, I would like to stress and tell you about the Commission's relationship with the Ministry of the Interior, because we are talking today specifically about the Police Act, the Supplement to Article 126, the Commission welcomes the way in which the Ministry and the Commission work together, between the police and the director of the criminal service. So far, we have not had any problems in this mandate, so we have somehow been revolutionized over the government amendment that came to our committee, which is some of the things, and some of the possibilities for us who are dealing with this have been narrowed down in such a way as to be just statisticians and to accept only statistical data in the control of these services. This is not effective control and this is not the kind of control that the Constitutional Court has prescribed for us. Therefore, it is also necessary to take into account what I have quoted. So far, thank you so much for listening to me. I want us to get to the statutory law as soon as possible, and regardless of the client, this should be the interest of any member of this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I no longer have written applications for the debate, so the debate of those who will now be discussed is limited to five minutes. The debate took place, first Mr Zląbec, then Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u27	Actually, I'd have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u28	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u29	to the execution of a colleague of Kangler. [[...]] In 1990, 1991 and 1992 and 1993, I was on the committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services, both police and military. Believe me, Janša, Bavčar and Brejc were by no means pleasant people, they didn't say anything if we didn't literally pull them out of their mouths. And Kangler's colleague is talking, he's been talking for almost half an hour, he's giving us a bag of clues and insinuations -- I don't even know what he's talking about, I've only had the feeling that I'm living in a country run by dark forces, but all this without a name, without a single fact. This is a remarkable example of conspiracy theory in psychiatry. Since 1990, we have been hearing about these crazy plots that have been happening to the poor Slovenian nation without anyone actually discovering this conspiracy. The conspiracy theory is a sure sign of the paranoia of her authors, "I should say, but I can't." If he can't tell, if he can't tell himself, then he better not open his mouth at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, will you have a replica before? Here you go. Then Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u31	It's not a replica in the sense that it's usually used here, but it complemented my report. Indeed, I would be obliged to tell you that you have received today's written amendment, which, as I explained earlier, was adopted by the committee, step by step. Why did you have to get to the newly written amendment? Not because, as Mr Jelinčič stated in his presentation of the opinion of the Group that someone wanted to plant something, but because here what we accept, and this involves a lot of people, we accept the supplement to the Police Act. We are talking, I will say, with this article we will only fill out what concerns the use of specific methods and means of police work. Well, in criminal proceedings. Not here to run now with what's in there with Owl, what's in the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defense and so on. If you read it, whoever reads it will know that this supplement, which we composed on the committee, belongs to the fourth row, not to the front row, dear Mary. Read the paragraph as stated by the Government, so this is a government amendment to Article 126a. First paragraph, first line does not apply to this text. That's crazy. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you, it's almost written down as unnecessary. That's why I asked the professional service today to say, based on a magnetogram and based on what we've really decided there, that this is about work control. I will read: supervision of work and activity and so on, not intelligence services. We cannot talk about intelligence services in the Police Act, but this should be beautifully recorded as being part of the fourth line of Article 126. That's what professional work did. I am sorry that you received one report on the bench today, then the correction of the report, then the amendment, and finally the amendment's cleanup. Unfortunately, I'll say, it wasn't until about 1:00 yesterday. After that I did not come forward here in the house any more and I have found today slowly, step by step, as we have accepted and, of course, ordered that the matter has been properly prepared for you. I would ask that you do not encourage experts to take something away from you or to plant something and so on. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u33	I'll be very brief. I am pleased that the fellow Member to whom I refer was a member of this Commission. However, I did not expect another part of his response, which I could understand if in 1990 or 1992 some who were in charge of some of the services were doing this or not providing information, then today those who are in power or who are in charge of these services can do nothing. Comrade Zląbec, you, who were, once again, I stress that you were a professional diplomat, but you could use those last words a little differently, and you could say only your wisdom and something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Lavrinc to count the lines in the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and he will see that in the fourth line the word "over" is the same as in the fifth line. And if it is written in the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, in the first paragraph of the fourth line of the first paragraph of paragraph 126.a of Article 126. of the amendment of the Government, the words 'activities and' shall be added for the word 'over'. Now, Mr. Lavrinc, count it, look where the fourth row is and put it in front of the word "over", this delivery. Delivery must come in the fifth row, in this case. Look, count it, and you'll figure it out. Otherwise, the meaning has been completely changed, and in this case, the fact that this is actually going to the fourth line remains the same as that of the amendment of the government. The Committee's intention was that this first paragraph should be amended so that parliamentarians have constant control over the activity and legality of police work, not that we will have control over the activities and work of security and intelligence services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc has the replica, then Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich! If you're going to read the magnetogram, you finally confirmed me. The point is that it is in the first sentence or in the first row of the amendment, but of course it is necessary to look at the original text, the text marked by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, numbers. so much and so, of 2.11.2001. This text is different, it's written with another machine, so to speak, like this text you have here. If we put that in, what was the wish on the board, in the first place, then we don't do anything. Just like you found out at the end. But if we put it in the fourth row, I'm talking about this original text, and then let's do what we wanted. And I am confident that the proposed law, which, of course, was present, listened, stated, would be accompanied by any such change. And my wish was to tell you that what's ready here today is writing here a new one, and it's marked 12.11., should be written on 13.11. because today it's been prepared to be true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, please, then Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I would also respond a little to the execution of Mr Evil. I actually understand his first part as supporting that Parliament has very clear powers in the law. In fact, he said here how difficult it is for regular officials to get information, that this is a conflict of interest and that Parliament and the people whose constitutional rights are being protected, even in this way through parliamentary control, has a different interest than the executive power. In the second part, I must say that I feel the same, and now I must defend a member of the Commission, that it is not appropriate to condemn as a conspiracy theory the execution of colleagues in the debate. I mean, he did say, I would say, but I can't say, but this was about the information that we're in charge of silence at open meetings. I know that Mr Kangler has already proposed on the Internal Policy Commission that, if necessary, he will apply the rules of procedure on the closure of the meeting. I'm afraid if we continue to do so, there will be a closed session here as well. However, I think that we are so united that effective parliamentary control has led the entire Parliament together, that we will vote such a law to that end, and that we will also be able to avoid some traps and some conflicting, different interests of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Two more replicas, Mr Jelinčič first, then Mr Zląbec. The debate, Mr. Moge. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I don't know where Mr Lavrinc saw that famous first row and what he wants with the first row. The text of the amendment nicely states in the fourth line of the first paragraph, and then let Mr Lavrinc also count the number of lines he has in the review of the amendments that was today, on 12.11.2001, day on the table to the Members. I would ask Mr Lavrinc, who says he was looking at the original text, why then the National Assembly gets on the table of new materials, especially this material was also marked with the word "new" on the right. That is to say whether then we should disregard any new documents that we receive on the table and take into account always only those that are "this first" given. Mr Lavrinc, you are a lawyer, and in fact you should know that it is necessary to monitor the development of a certain law, but not to take what is the "first" basic matter as an all-encompassing and then not allow anything else. Once again, Mr. Lavrinc, just count the lines. You'll see it's necessary in the fifth row. Otherwise, I would ask the professional lady to explain it. I was at her house earlier, and we talked about it, and she said I was right. Mr. Lavrinc, take today's document and see, not the one from two months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u43	Look what this is all about. We accepted an amendment on the committee, we accepted it one step at a time. We have accepted the amendment to the government's amendment, Mr Jelinčič. We had in our hands material where the head is "Government of the Republic of Slovenia", number 231-04/2001, of 2.11.2001. On this material that we had in our hands at the time, we accepted the amendment. And because the professional service is bad, I will say, not wrong, but wrongly wrote that in the first paragraph - so you got that amendment first - for the word "over" add the words "activity and", you could have made this mistake, as Mr Jelinčič now said. And this would be read as if it belonged to the first type of government amendment, i.e. paragraph 1 to paragraph 126.a. Because this is not what follows from the magnetogram, but it should be judged - we are still speaking and we have before us the material that she has provided us and we have it on the committee, and she says, "To the adoption of a law that will regulate parliamentary control over the work of intelligence and security operators" and so on, and then in the fourth row we come, " [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the Surveillance Commission’]] a constant control of the legality of police work," the government wrote, and Members wanted "to keep the work of the police under constant control and legality", only in this is the story. And since it has been poorly written down, I have ordered that in order to avoid similar problems today - and have also delivered to you a new written amendment which has actually been adopted and what can be found through a review of the magnetogram of the session. And I'm asking nicely for the help of the bill's proponents because they know beyond question what we were trying to fix.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u44	Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Well, I think Mr. Lavrinc still doesn't understand what I'm trying to say. The fact is, then this last record we got on the table was written wrong. The text is stretched to the extent that we have got the word 'over' where we should insert the word 'activity and' that we got it into the fifth row and not into the fourth row, where the word 'over' is another word. And that's what I'm warning you about. Maybe it's a mistake, maybe it's a deliberate mistake. I would therefore like to ask the professional lady to clarify this matter. Because if the professional service says, it's a mistake, and the word "activities and" goes to the place I said, the matter will be settled. And, Mr. Lavrinc, please take today's document, don't look at the old documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u46	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u47	I didn't follow too closely, but I think it's a misunderstanding and I'd like to help. I have to say that this latest version, and we, the commission today, have pointed out one incoherence to check after the magnetogram. On this basis, I believe that this is actually an improvement or in line with the debate and the questions voted. If there is any minor error in this part, because we have actually accepted in parts, as Mr Lavrinc says, then it is important to note, but I think that this text has approached the actual state and that in some ways this last version is what is, not in some way, but that it is the version that has been adopted. However, Mr Jelinčič indicated at the outset, which is also necessary for the review of the amendments to be made under this amendment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is probably a press error. We've already solved this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The replica's gone. Replica, Mr Zląbec, because then we have four more debaters reported. Here you go, Mr. Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u49	I have a replica of my colleague Jerovsk and colleague Kangler. I insist in my position that only defenders on the market, football fans and paranoid people know everything. We can confirm this in practice and theory. From a professional Member such as colleague Jerovšek and colleague Kangler, who oversees security and intelligence services, I would expect two. For the first time, a professional Member can also clearly say through lines what this is all about. Otherwise, it's better if he doesn't answer. And secondly, that a professional Member concerned by the fate of the state and the fate of democracy can be so brave that some things of a secret nature can also be said out loud. It's been 100 years since the famous text of Emil Zolaj I'm accusing. But - what do I mean? Zola was a brave man.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have no words above the execution of my fellow villain. But that's all I'm gonna say. You're probably not enough time in this house to get to know my work, my principle. But you have every opportunity to learn this, fellow Member. If you believe, honourable Members, that at the time of the police being added, it is necessary to speak, which is done by one of the other services, I suggest that we close the meeting for the public and that Ambassador Kangler and all the members of the Commission speak. But if you think we're coming here and you're telling me that I'm not professional, Comrade Evil Man, then I can read you back five times, and because of the cultural relationship I have with you, I won't do that. However, if you want us to speak at this point when we consider a supplement to the police, not a roof law when necessary, then say so and I suggest we close the meeting in public if you want. But then you will take the time until tomorrow morning, because we can talk by morning; from Mojet, which you will have to listen to for the first time, what happened to him and to whom and what he met at his work and what he demanded of some of the services, he did not get, even though all the members of the commission knew that this information was being hidden. You speak fluently and in your mind, and I speak with arguments. However, if you want to hear these arguments, I suggest we close the public meeting and I will talk about it. But once again, when we talk about it, we will not talk about the work of the police or the Ministry of the Interior or within this point. This refers to some other services and refers to the bill of honor that Members wish, so I will be very pleased if you all agree to support the proposal for an additional decision that the National Assembly will conclude a contract with independent experts to write us a law that is suitable for parliamentary democracy, without the government writing it to us for ten years, and it has not done so. That's the problem, buddy Zląb.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u52	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'm going to give a piece of work to my fellow Evil One, in fact, I'm happy to call him to respond in concrete matters, like Zola, with the word "indict". Some things in this House and in this National Assembly should be brought to justice for some things. The fact is, this is huge. However, in doing so, we are hampered by the current definition of Member's immunity. In fact, as soon as the Members are more specific and carry out what they have received from the electorates, which they have obtained practically irrefutable evidence of the involvement of public officials and speak for the speaker, they are faced with prosecutions, with reparations, on the basis of which modern uplifters and those who have taken advantage are bound by the Members' mouth. However, Comrade Zląbet came into contradiction with himself. On one occasion, if I recall correctly, the clear words of a Member have been addressed by a fascist. I don't know if you're being honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. They're just done with the replicas. The representative of the Legislature, Mrs Bitenchev, will explain the misunderstanding and the complication that has taken place in understanding the amendment. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u55	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. A respected choir! I would like to explain that from the amendment review, this error is indeed due. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the review of the amendments is only a technical aid and that, in fact, this assembly, regardless of the fact that it has this before its eyes when it decides, works on the basis of the originals which represent the right texts. The original texts shall also be taken into account in the final edition. In reviewing amendments, when we prepare the originals of laws in the secretariat, we often identify typographical errors; sometimes we also find errors in references such as this, but we always follow the originals, because the originals represent the basic legislative material that Members deal with. Of course, it is not important for the legislative material to be placed on the bench or to come to the office of Members, the legislative material is in particular a bill and all directly tabled amendments, as they are made by the deadline, are submitted and received by all Members. I would like to stress once again that the review of the amendments is only a technical aid and that in principle, at least as far as the secretariat is concerned, the reference problem should not be a problem, as it is clear exactly what type of reference this reference refers to.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the debaters who have made themselves known, in the following order: first Mr Vukko, then Mr Barovic, Mr Drobnic, Mr Mohe and Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Of course, today's debate shows that views are different, as well as understanding. I fully agree with those, and also with my colleague Kangler, who notes that it is not good that this country does not have a law whereby once and for all it would be appropriate to regulate the work of all security and intelligence services in the Republic of Slovenia. It is only in this law that such questions and dilemmas will be highlighted even more clearly. That is why, of course, his implementation in part surprised me when he commended the Minister of the Interior for the supervision of police work, in particular the criminal police, in the part where he exercised the powers of the CAP and of the 49th section of the Police Act that this cooperation was excellent. Here we have a marriage that talks about it. The purpose of this law is to regulate the supervision of this work of the police by law. And it seems unnecessary to me that we are also opening up the subject of other intelligence services. I fully believe that the government has a certain chaos in the intelligence service, which is within the Ministry of Defence, as I probably don't know in Owl. And here, of course, I can tell Mr. Kangler that we don't know everything. However, we are now talking about security activities or we are talking about the police in exercising the powers of the CAP and the Police Act. The supervision of the work of all intelligence services, as well as of these security services, is, of course, important in terms of the Constitution mainly in terms of the protection of human rights and, as such, supervision is also part of Parliament's constitutional function. The decision, which has been mentioned several times and which is particularly good for my colleague Potrč, has given me chronology, seems important to me. However, this Decision refers to this part of the necessity of external control, the parliamentary control of the executive branch of power in the exercise of those powers, those laws directly affecting human rights. That's not a dilemma. The dilemma is what the content of control should be. And the content of the control, given what has been said to be good cooperation, and also on the Committee, has been expressed by those who have defended the position of the Government, it has been said that they do not mind if this control is established. I don't see why we're fighting so much about this. When the decision speaks in the part where the quote has been repeatedly used, allow me to read again: whether the content of the data and information they acquire are the way they are obtained and made available to them within the framework of what is provided for in the Constitution and legislation. As far as I understand, in this part of the Constitutional Court's decision speaks of formal supervision and control of procedural regularity. So it raises a question of how we can determine whether, as parliamentarians, these data and information have been collected by the security services on the basis of these powers under the CAP and Article 49 are within the framework of the Constitution and the law. It is my belief that we should first look at the measures defined in the law - that they did not use any other method and means that the law does not mention at all. After whether an order of the investigating judge has been issued for an individual measure. Because the investigating judge, when we are talking about the measures after the CAP, is the one who will base and judge. The Judicial Branch of the Authority, of course, has verified whether the police have substantiated the proposal to apply a measure after the CAP. So it's a matter of controlling whether the police in this area have held to the authority given to them by law. I see that colleague Jerovšek is writing quickly because he is likely to replicate all these performances. I'm stressing again. The judicial branch of the Authority is the one that decides on the eligibility of individual measures. One final thought. I believe that the law, as it is, allows for such control. And in that sense, effective control.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not want to steal time from my colleagues and colleagues, but I had to respond and discuss, on my behalf of course and on my behalf - as a member of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I am surprised that the debate has gone in this dimension and direction. Why am I surprised? Because I was on my mother's working body, where most agreed that the government's amendment to the amendment to the law on amendments and additions to the law on police was too restrictive and limited control to statistical control - I said most. I am also surprised that, after being deceived by memory, we unanimously accepted the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - I said, if memory does not deceive me, unanimously. And I anticipated that this would be the case today, too, in the National Assembly - unanimously means that we have agreed with the amendment on both coalition and opposition Members, members of the home working body. Today, in many debates, I have felt another question that I do not understand: whether or not the Intelligence Supervisory Commission is necessary or not. If this Commission, as far as I have understood from my words, has been working for 12 years or ten years, I apologize if events in history have shown that this Commission is necessary, it is therefore necessary and has certain rights and obligations to monitor the content of the events; and there is no doubt here too. But it is true that I was surprised again when I received a review of the amendments dated 12.11., where it says - please, if you are paying attention! - on page 2, "amendment of the Internal Policy Committee on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia", and the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time the "amendment of the Internal Policy Committee" as we have unanimously supported on the home labour body. Two questions are asked: is there just a mistake here - I repeat - on page 2, where the amendment of the committee and the proposer of the government, whether it is intentional; and of course, one begins to see what is going on. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, my mother's working body has debated and had a unified position, which has been reflected in the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, and we have agreed on this in both ways. I really don't know if anything else needs to be discussed today, if this content is good and suitable for both; unless it's what some people doubt on the one hand, that someone knows what's going on between the lines, or because we're doing ourselves a great job. I think my colleagues will have to confirm that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be very brief because I think it should be decided by now. The aim of this law is to ensure effective control, good control. In this case, when parliamentary supervision is introduced, when we are not professionals, when we do not have technical means, when we are not educated, we are actually in a subordinate position. Therefore, any effort to limit the action of parliamentarians in the area of supervision is unproductive and is ridiculous. We should be aware of that. These services have proved to be and have also been misused in the past. I'm not gonna say how far back it's 30, 50 years, not to mention. It's always a potential danger. And that's why countries around the world have introduced such controls. It is not enough just to control the chairman, in this case the minister, for he knows that if abuse occurs, he is responsible. More control is needed here. And I'm stressing again. The introduction of control shall be initiated by a judge, investigating judge. Then we only deal with the compliance of the police controls with the decisions of the investigating judge. And I still claim that there is a danger of other abuses beyond that. But I doubt this committee will be able to do it. That's why there's still something misplaced. The supervision of other services, either accounting courts, the Court of Auditors or the like, is therefore much easier to do. However, I certainly welcome the fact that this proposal for a law has been made, and I have tried. But I'm afraid the term or password will come true: many grandmothers, a bald child. A lot of amendments. Each amendment will bring something additional, and it is likely that the basic design and the basic objective will be slightly damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u63	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I think we're in the tailoring business because we're mopping up a hole. The non-consistentity of the law on the supervision of security services was the decision of the Constitutional Court on the initiative of Mr Mirk Bandl and the Minister of the Interior. I think that whoever read this decision saw that it was necessary - and this is our duty to the Government: to take into account and respect the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court, to try to patch up within the legal time limit what the Constitutional Court has ordered that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is all our duty and duty, and this has also led me to co-sign this law, which has only two articles and which we are dealing with today. It seems to me, Madam President, that if we really just focused on the law, then this matter would have been behind us long ago, in order to vote and allow the Commission of the National Assembly to continue to monitor it. However, I must say that in the past there have been several instances in which we are all well-known and that the Commission in the past did not have a legal basis as a weapon with which it could intervene radically in the functioning of these services. I'll tell you what. The Constitution defines Parliament as legislative, as one who elects people and also controls, and from here on out this area, I am not talking about finances, is completely disorderly. In fact, with the Rules of Procedure, by decree establishing this commission on the Law on Owls, on the Law on the Police, on the Law on Defence, we cannot replace any effective control. And even if we close this hole a little bit today, we will not have effective control. I must say that the whole parliament is for this, not just the position and the opposition, that this third task of its own - this is one effective control. And luckily in this committee, we met people who hope to bring this to a happy end, and it seems to me that if we were too stubborn to get a room, which now has positive effects in a short time, we will be able to present within three months a law that will patch up this hole and that law will be a roof law, not a law on the police, but a law on defence, where we can never get anything consistent, which would allow for some effective work. I think that as far as we, the proponents, were concerned, the good will was shown that we had largely participated on the Lavrinsk Committee, that where we had gathered Members from all the parties in Parliament, we had come up with one such amendment, which was acceptable to us all, which was somewhat broader than what the government had narrowed down to the Commission. And I - at least personally, as one of the proposers of this law - will support this amendment of the committee to the amendment of the board's government. And I'm going to try, you know, this way to close this thing temporarily. I think the debate here is over. It is also enough - I see that colleague Jerovšek has also proposed that we discuss this in depth at a meeting of the National Assembly. In order to know how effective we are in this supervisory function, I will suggest to you, President Jerovšek, that, on the basis that we have received all the reports now: from Sova, from the Security Intelligence Service, the Ministry of Defence, to the Crime Service, to show us our mirror for the State Committee, we will tell you how effective we have been in one year or how effective these services have been, that once you "urbi et orbi" in 11 years you will get from the working body some material on which you can then ask us certain questions to the other services. And I don't think it makes any more sense, Madam President, to talk a lot about this law. I think we also have to do our part on the committee about what I said. And I think that, until now, honourable Members, at least for our proposals to this Commission, we have always received your understanding and I hope that this will be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u65	I'll try to be as short as I can. I would only respond in fact to this dilemma in my debate whether the Constitutional Court has clearly defined the content as well, and as colleague Vukko also pointed out that there is only a dilemma on the content of control. It's true. That's right. However, I submit that the Constitutional Court has very clearly confirmed the correctness of the content of the control, as was the case in this repealed decision. For otherwise I would not say that the implementation of the Institute is not in accordance with the Constitution, but the content is not in conflict. The content has been made very clear. The Constitutional Judges certainly know the content. In government, if only there was a naked government proposal, the members of the commission would not be concerned. However, the explanation clearly shows that the Government is trying to convince itself that quality judicial supervision is already in place, which directly states that the Constitutional Court explicitly says that judicial supervision is not complete. And a few more such phrases could be quoted from the explanation of the government's proposal. For this reason, I believe that this National Assembly will preserve and protect the integrity of Parliament. People expect us to be the body that guarantees the constitutionality and legality of the work of intelligence services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this in the general debate anymore, I am just concluding. Mr Kangler had previously proposed a 15-minute break as part of his discussion, and in the meantime he informed me that he no longer needed it. That is why we are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. Your Honor! Since we have been in the rapid process or because we have received quite a few amendments in the quick procedure on the bench, I kindly request your attention. The law has two articles in the basic text. In the light of the remoteness of the contents of the amendments, according to the basic text of the applicants, the amendment you received today was tabled. This is an amendment to Article 1 of which the proposed LDS Club, the United List of Social Democrats, DeSUS and subsequently you have received a notice - it is in reproduction, you do not yet have on the table - that the drafter is also the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thus, the four members of the group tabled an amendment with the date 14.11.2001 to Article 1 which you have on the bench. It's a basic amendment. On this amendment of the four parliamentary groups, you have also recently received a touch, and the amendment was tabled by Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič. First of all, we will hold a debate and a vote on the basic amendment. I apologize. [[...]] On the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by Victory Jelinčič and then the vote on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups. If the amendment of the four parliamentary groups is adopted, it will become an amendment of the government and also an amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is an internal policy committee, irrelevant. However, if the amendment of the four parliamentary clubs is not adopted, we will also vote on the amendment of the government and on the amendment to the amendment of the government of which the committee is proposing, in the opposite order. Given that there are also several proposals on the table, several copies of the amendment review, I would like to inform you that the correct revision of the amendments with date 12.11., which has the word "new" on the right-hand side and first of all is the amendment of the internal policy committee to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1. So I am opening the debate on Article 1 and on all, there are two basic amendments and two amendments to the amendment of the basic amendments, if I may say so. However, the order of voting will be as I said before, and I will also point out at the vote what we are voting on. Mr Lavrinc, then Mr Jelinčič, then Mr Moge, applied for the debate. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u67	I'd like to ask what the fate of my amendment is now, which is an amendment to the title of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u68	That's what we'll do. Now the debate is on Article 1 and on what I have just presented. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment to the amendments of the LDS, United List, DeSUS, which were also joined by colleagues from the People's Party, for one reason. In fact, in the first paragraph, that I will not read all of the first paragraph of Article 126.a, I will only descend on that part of the sentence, "constant control over the legality of police activities".We think that the text so stated is too little, because this text is not in accordance with the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, where the Committee unanimously accepted that in the fourth line of paragraph 126.a of article 126. of the amendment of the Government for the word "over" is added to the word "activities and". In short, in this case, as we now have in the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, it is possible to control only the legality of police activities or, according to domestic law, control over the legality of police work; but there is no control over the activity. In short, this is about two segments that we need to control: one segment is the control of police activities, so that no police or anyone exerts any kind of pressure on people, and the other part is legality. For if the police - if we accept this amendment without the additional amendment of the Slovenian National Party, it will happen by essentially adopting the intention of the government amendment. In this case, we will not be able to control what the police are doing, but we will only be able to control whether it is in accordance or whether, for example, the judge issued a regulation to investigate whether the judge allowed the detention of anyone, not what happened there. In fact, abuse may occur, and this abuse must be prevented. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party has tabled an amendment amending this existing part of the sentence, in paragraph 126.a of Article 126, which states that "sustainable control over the legality of police activities" is to be amended to read as "sustainable control over the activity and legality of police work". I think that the amendment or our amendment has also been in line with the wishes, intentions and solutions adopted by the Internal Policy Committee and has already been written in one of its papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. With its amendment, the government has very reserved the law, just what the Members wanted to achieve. We agreed, on the basis that we were present at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, that it would still be bearable for our work to adopt the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy to the amendment of the Government. And, Madam President, my view of this problem is that the amendment of the Committee and the amendment of the government is a far more distant proposal than the amendment of the four groups of Members, supplemented by the law of Mr Jelinčič. However, it certainly seems to me that the dilemmas that we now have here, what is right and what is wrong is the main focus of not having a proposal for a law on control that would tell us what the tasks and competences of the Commission are. And it is clear that when Members wrote, as wrote by Ambassador Leo Sesherko and Mr Tone Anderlič, this law, they said that this commission oversees the functioning of those - security. You understand, it controls the operation. However, when the government wrote the same law, it wrote: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia issues parliamentary control over the implementation of the laws. Well, the government, now in line with what it has said to reserve the work of this commission, is to keep abreast of the legality of the work, while this commission or individual Members is trying to achieve what Mr. Victory Jelinčič is then also trying to achieve with the law that is now in the procedure, said that - there the commission - therefore, the supervision relates to the validity and consistency of the individual activities of these services. And of all this, if we had a basic marriage, this thing would have been clear, we wouldn't have done it, we would've done it. Now that we do not have it, it will depend on our good will then on what powers you will give us, Members, or we will allow ourselves to control these services: whether we go to reserve these requirements or leave a little more authority, about what we have so far in implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u73	So first of all, I would like to say that this amendment, which was tabled for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, cannot be accepted in my opinion. I'll explain why. I don't know what Mr Rudi Moge is saying right now, but the fact is that the Commission, which is set up to oversee the work of security and intelligence services, also controls the legality of the activities of the criminal police, which operates on the basis of orders from the judges. And for this thing to be written somewhere, of course, the law on the police needs to be corrected. Unlike putting this in these transitional provisions, in a way, it is not possible. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the difficulty that this commission, which is set up to oversee the work of security and intelligence services, would control the work of the police, so I will analyse the matter. What do these people now expect from those who propose such a way, such a dictatorship that these Members will now walk, whether the police on the road properly use the powers given them by the Road Safety Act? I don't think so. Therefore, it seems to me that the dictatorship which is prepared here is a continuous control of the legality of police activities in the exercise of the powers laid down in Articles 49 and 150, 15l, 152 and 155 of the Criminal Procedure Act makes it clear that this is a matter of specific methods and means. That's what has to worry about everything - now, whether I'm so loud or other. I don't know who it was meant for.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u74	Your Honor, I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u75	Yes, it is, so that we don't - so we have to convince people that it is our will and that it is, after all, and we have to allow ourselves to control the work of the police, which is hidden. These are special methods and means: tracking, eavesdropping, writing, and I don't know what. In short, that's all we'll control. And, of course, we will control the legality. However, if we want to control legality and then you also have in Article 4, you can practically go there, control, watch or act - for example, according to the order of the judge is 3 months, the police have been working it for six months, wow! Then he can even look at the contents and so on. It's all covered up. However, if we write "constant control over the activity and legality of police work", it seems to me that we will even reach into the area when police are just starting to drive some things, when there is nothing, when we have none - I would say, far away from any criminal charge being made. There, and with that kind of control, I don't agree. But I have to say this because I don't trust my fellow Members, as I don't trust them, I don't know, the Director-General of Police, that it's not possible for anyone, where they've made a mistake and stopped the matter - that is, like they should be driving. And here we have to give our faith to the police, the criminals. And only after the matter is finished is the matter controlled and, of course, alerts to irregularities if they were done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First Mr. Jelinčič, then Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. I expected Mr Lavrinc to react the way he did. However, I would tell him that it is not enough if the committee of Members can control only whether or not the judge has issued a permit. It is very important - and all democratic parliamentary control services, the committees of the Commission, have a way of controlling it, as proposed in the amendment. This is said to control both the legality and the activities of these segments of the police and of the intelligence services. The fact is, we can't leave the execution to the police. That's what he says when he has - a little paraphrasing - when a cop has a license from a judge to take a man, what I know, into a crossroads, he has the right to beat him up, lock him up, come to his apartment when he's "suited". This man, this citizen, has no right to do anything. The Parliamentary Commission will have no right to ask and say, "Listen, what are you doing over citizens," because by law Mr Lavrinc will try to take this away from us. But I think that if we want to move on democratically, then we must accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u79	Comrade Lavrinz! I have to replicate to you, too. I must say, your performance surprised me. I'd like to re-emphasize. I note that the problem is that Members are not familiar with our work activities. So far, including until this day or until the last surveillance of the police, this commission has had the opportunity to look into all the decisions, orders issued by the judges and all that is within the jurisdiction of the law on police issued by the Director of Police. Including insight into the contents. Comrade Lavrinc, how am I supposed to monitor and, according to you, wait for some operational processing to be carried out for five or six months, or even up to a year, completed and then I have an opportunity to look into certain documents, and to see if everything was in accordance with all the normative rules? We have also so far had an overview of all the orders issued by the director of the police, who are currently in the process, where the charges have not yet been made on the prosecution, including the content. And when I get the order in my hands - the order of the police is to write: who, why, cause, and what special means and methods may be used against a particular person or group. The contents of this order shall be recorded. But if you think we're going to be statisticians, then, excuse me, I'm going to propose at the next session of Kviaz that this committee be abolished, because it's not necessary at all if you think that I, as a member of the commission, am going to go to the criminal service and I'm going to ask the director to give me statistics on the measures taken. For a year now, we have monitored the functioning of the police and, once again, there has been good cooperation, including on the content of all those decisions and orders issued by the Director of Police concerning special means and methods. We did not go into the work of the police, to that part that does not concern special means and methods; we went into what concerns listening, tracking, secret redemption of objects and the like. This is our jurisdiction in accordance with the decree. Don't tell me, Lavrinc, that we will control the cops on the road if they stop properly if they legitimize properly and so on. We control what the decree also gives us - it is known, the part about the use of special means and methods, only the part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Evil, please, then Mr Jerovšek and Mr Juban. Here you go, Mr. Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u81	I think one safety valve is better than one safety valve less. If we leave only legality, we can come into endless justice with police lawyers who will prove where the limits of legality are, which are likely to be different from our civil understanding of legality. Therefore, even if the appendix hanging from the side can’t be damaged, it can’t do any harm. And I have a purely pragmatic tendency to do so - intimately and also really decided to vote for a variant that will cover both activity and legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u83	It's really interesting how colleagues come in conflict with each other. Mr Lavrinc came today in contravention of what we last agreed and unitedly voted on the Commission. Mr Zląbec is a little earlier in his words on clarity of conduct, but now he supports a blurred semantic irregular dictatorship that allows for irregularities. In fact, the doctrine adopted by the Commission is very clear. And it doesn't allow such or any other explanation. It gives what is ordered by a Constitutional Court decision which speaks of content and that judicial control is not sufficient. Slovenia has not yet had a constitutional court to revoke its decisions or its explanations, even though they have been adopted in unanimity. The Constitutional Court has always stood by its opinions and its decisions. I hope that's the way it's going to be under the current president. I'm sure of it. Members change their views in one day. Here we begin the integrity of this national council. It will happen as Mr Zląbec said in the previous performance. And this time, people will say, "I'm accusing you!" You have passed such a law that you have allowed human rights to be violated and no longer supervised. Think about it! Mr Lavrinc said very clearly the last time, and even I agreed: it is perfectly logical that those who have to control the subject will not submit such a law that would actually restrict their wings. Mr. Lavrinc, I don't know if you've read it. All of today's dilemmas would not have been if we had announced a compromise proposal from the Internal Policy Committee, most of which we have adopted unanimously. And we also agreed that control of the activity was urgently needed. I don't know how that's possible now. I see that, before that, my colleague Moja, who has contributed a lot, said he would vote in favour of such a dictatorship, which was adopted on the Internal Policy Committee, I respect and appreciate that he remained in it, although he also proposed another dictatorship one day, but was adopted and remains dead. But I do know that my colleague Mogo has had a hard time accusing Mr Anderlič of sticking a knife in his back - I am a witness to government policy. And here, fellow Members, let us avoid being accused, justly accused of not wanting control. We know that we cannot exercise control in the way they insinuate us, as if we are now going to listen to listening magnetograms - never and never will! We will never control this basic police activity; only according to those articles of the Criminal Procedure Act and Article 49 of the Police Act will we monitor the activity and legality. And please stop supporting such proposals that go against it! Once again, yes, we have worked well together so far. Therefore, I suppose that what is coming here has not grown on Minister Bohinc's lawn, nor on the police; we have both worked well together and I do not know why something comes to Parliament from the third power center. And you're here to support this without thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I would almost agree with my colleague Jerovsk until he introduced the center - who? - some third power or someone; I don't know what's going on again. So we don't know what it's all about anymore. But, see, a group of Members, who are members of the Commission, who are semi-professionally in charge of this area and deal with it, have submitted a law that we have apparently all adopted and the government has also cooperated that the law has been shaped as it should have been. Then the government wrote an amendment that had been corrected by the Internal Policy Committee, and you again found that it would be okay now. Because of, apparently, the vagueness of some concepts, then the four-member group - I think the new four - wrote a new amendment on the table. And in this group, I guess, they were members of this commission again, at least one. But interestingly, all of a sudden, these members of the commission support the addition of colleague Jelinčič, which so far has not been discussed. And there is confusion, and personally I no longer know what to support, what to vote on - what to vote for, I apologize. I think it's this notion, or a doctrine that says, "constant control of the legality of activity," somewhere that we're talking about all the time. But I'm starting to think that there's something else that individuals want to do. Now, because the confusion is obviously somewhere else, not just with me, but so we don't blindly vote on how someone is going to pick up a finger or not, I suggest to you, to those of you who were doing this to take a ten-minute break, to figure out what we want. Especially those who are in charge of this area, because you obviously have come into conflict with what you have proposed and what you now support. I speak very well because there's obviously been a mix-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please. Mr Jerovšek has a procedural proposal before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u87	Because Mr. Juban mentions confusion that he does not understand. I agree with the gentleman's proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u88	Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u89	Yes, yes - Mr Mojet, that is the farthest proposal from the Internal Policy Committee. [[...]] Let us vote on that, and if it is to be voted - and it should be voted if we put something at the parliamentary institute, it should be, if we put something on Parliament's watch, it should be - let's vote on that, and everything else will fall away.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u90	This is not a procedural proposal. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I'll give my opinion on this. I believe that the dictatorship used in the amendment of the four groups of Members is more appropriate. And I am joining my colleague, Juban, who notes that it is our common intention to oversee the work of the police in the implementation of the measures that we need to read it to the end; and that, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, even so. This is about monitoring the activities, the legality of the police's activities. There – this activity includes a series of measures, a type of methods and so on – operational and such. And I don't know what we're arguing about. I'm going to hear the obvious now that I obviously don't understand. But this was just the coordination we had that was further introduced. It is quite clear that we all want to oversee the police together in the implementation of the mandate, it is said, of the activities it has in the exercise of these powers. We don't want anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Mogue, then Mr Lavrinc and Mr Minister would like a word. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. But what Comrade Wolf said, we wrote. Look! The Commission - that is to say - "the continuous control of police activity in the work where it implements the measures referred to in Article 49" and so on because it is quoted here. That's what we had written. But after the government had made an amendment, that changed and was a constant control of the legality of police work. And in this roof law, which colleague Anderlič gave to Shesherko, there was "acting" where the government is, but always a dictatorship is only the legality of work". Let's get this straight! And now in these cases, because we have sat there for several hours, we are now sitting here for a few hours at the National Assembly, it seems to me that we are all going through so much common sense, as well as knowledge, in one article and only in one paragraph of one article, that we can perhaps define ourselves to these things. And it seems to me, the president - and this is a little bit of you - that anyone is using other names in this and things that are not related to this law, please stop it and focus on this dictatorship of what we are using here. For now this debate could perhaps be at least 40 per cent shorter if only this law or only the amendments that belong to this law were addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u95	Yeah, well, if I've been pulled by my tongue, I have to tell you what I'm gonna do. It seems to me that the text, which is offered here, is offered by four members of the group, is better, so I went to ask my colleague Potrate, who is a master of the Slovenian language. Because if it were to be written in the way it is now proposed and as if it were out of the way what we used to throw at the committee would look like the Commission is in constant control of the activity and, this is still the legality of the police work. Now I can, which means if I think back like that, there's some police work or some police activity that's not legal. However, since I am reading as proposed here, it is "over the legality of the activity", it is said that all the police work in this area is about the exercise of powers and so on. So it seems to me that what is offered here is much better, much more understandable, and even more so what I, say, intimately wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Minister Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. This highly engaged and responsible expert debate shows how sensitive and challenging this is. And believe me, we have made a huge professional effort to come up with the solutions that we are proposing. I don't believe it's possible to make any more of them better with the different views and basic concepts that some of you are advocating. I would just like to say that the proposal of the four parliamentary groups is a very solid and professional compromise possible on this issue, and also from the point of view of the government's proposed amendment, it is possible to support it. However, I do not think there is any need to supplement the wording in the first article with a proposal such as Mr Jelinčič's amendment, where it is essential for this concept that the scope of control is set out in points 2, 3 and 4 of this Article and the limits of that control are set. And these limits also refer to activities, specifically in paragraph 4, relating to paragraph 49, this formulation is used. This is said to be the case, with the generalisation of this in Article 1 we will not achieve anything completely new. In short, I propose that this amendment be supported and that we thus establish a basis for the operation of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please. Don't you? You're giving up, thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 1 and on the amendments to Article 1, as I have already decided in the announcement and explanation, we will first vote on the amendment to the amendment of the parliamentary groups: LDS, United Lists, SLS+SKD and DeSus. This is an amendment to the amendment proposed by Mr Victory Jelinčič. We are voting on the amendment to the amendment of the winner of the Helinčič. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 21 to 30. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Government and also the amendment to the amendment of which the Committee is proposing is irrelevant. Explanation of vote, interrupts the vote. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u99	This amendment of the four groups should be rejected. In fact, the Minister was extremely free and honest when he said that suddenly we no longer have activity, that the limits of control in points 2, 3 and 4 are set. And that is exactly what we have found on the Internal Policy Committee that the government is setting the limits of control so that this control will not be for us to be Mr Banovac - to send statistics on what they are doing. Surveillance should be lifted, if accepted, by the Parliament. Because why should we be ashamed of the world that we have no control over? There is no need to collect statistics in Parliament. We have competent authorities to do this and collect them! That's what you take, even though there's a little blurry insight, but control, review, it's not some kind of insight into what's going on. But after one year or after the end of the term, such control - nothing before - is unnecessary. And don't show us, please, a pigeon on the roof. It's better that we have a sparrow in our hand and we have a piece of control. I claim that with this skilled amendment, which Mr Anderlič is implementing by force - what we have written must be voted on, I have heard here. A voice from behind. No, no, no. But for the last time, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u100	Mr Jerovšek, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u101	Said he stuck a knife in his back because he signed a law like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u102	The explanation of vote includes your opinion on the amendment of which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u103	No! No! [[..]] I'll say it again. The minister was honest. The limits of control are set. These limits are not as the recommendations of the Council of Europe are made and required by the Constitutional Court. This article will fall in the Constitutional Court, I assure you, if it is so voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jeliničič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The fact is, I will vote against this amendment, because this amendment does nothing but blurs out the actual situation and gives a sense of democraticism and the look of control. In fact, it says exactly that the Commission will be allowed to carry out only statistical surveys and statistical reviews. Nothing else. What's written in there is a mockery of democracy. And I am ashamed to live in a country that is becoming more like the former Milosevic of Serbia from day to day. I know why the government is doing this. The government wants absolute control over the grain and being of the Slovenian people. And this is also one of these apparatus, and it's prepared for the police to be able to hack into people's apartments and vehicles at night at night at night, according to the Argentine junta method, while the monitoring committee will ask, "Please, can you please tell me, in accordance with Article 126a, what is the number of persons the measures have been taken against?" That's all we have to ask. LDS doesn't know what she voted for! He does not know; until this police force turns against them; when they start going to them at night, it will be different. They are now going home to various members of the LDS, except for Mr Mohet, they have not yet come. When they start coming to see you, then you'll be "screaming." That's when it's all going to be wrong! And the only one who said it right was Mr Zląbec who said: better a little more control than less control. And that way you voted it out is terrible! That's why we don't even need this amendment anymore! The only option is to ultimately vote on the basic amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, where it is written to add "activity and legality". Legal activity is one concept, activity, on the one hand, legality on the other are two concepts. And this is not about - this is knowledge of the Slovenian language and also knowledge of the legal language - the legality of the activity is one segment. We will have the right to see whether the judge has allowed what I know, to take action on a person. But we will not have the right to look at the measures they have taken. And that's exactly what it is! And I hope that the Slovenian people will rise up against this, and that when the police come with such a regulation, they will defend themselves because they have the right, under the Charter of the United Nations, they have the right to defend their honour, integrity and life! We're taking away the commission's control! By what you voted, you took that away from them, you took away from us all, you took away our control! And I say, I will vote against this amendment, and maybe it will clear up to someone in their head and vote in favour of the basic amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to get rid of at least something small that we have lost.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a vote on the amendment to Article 1 of which there are four groups of Members. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It's 37 votes to 23. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendment of the four parliamentary groups was adopted, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the amendment to the amendment of which the Committee on Internal Policy is proposing is irrelevant. By adopting the amendment, we have also amended the text of Article 1 in its entirety. This is how I put Article 2 into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 2. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. I am putting to the debate the amendment tabled in the title of the law, which is proposed by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Anybody want a word? Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u107	That there would be no aversion, because my amendment warned the secretariat. In fact, it is a matter of additions, not changes. That is why this amendment needs to be supported. But we missed it on the committee, so we didn't vote on it, otherwise it would be an amendment to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the title of the law. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the title of the whole law. We're voting! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 8. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since no, I ask the Secretariat, pursuant to Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, if the adopted amendment violates the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. No, thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. Mr Barovic wants to explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since alone and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party have estimated that there has been work and effort and jumping from one committee to another - I speak when the Committee on Internal Policy has spoken precisely about this law - in spite of the fact that our agreements on the Committee have no weight in Parliament itself, I will vote against it as a member of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I think I've already said a few things. But I'm sure there's something else to add. That these very gentlemen who voted "against" are the very ones who are the mouths of democracy and of Europe - they are full of them. I do not know how they will be able to justify such a law before Europe; because Europe is supposed to be democratic and protect democratic values. It seems, however, that some in the Slovenian Parliament or in the government, because the fact is that the government has asked Members, some Members to vote in order to be able to exert pressure, pressure and spying, and I do not know what else over the Slovenian people, that this government cares little about democracy and everything. They care only and only about their chairs where they want to stay for as long as possible. We are ashamed in the Slovenian National Party that the Slovenian Parliament does not have the power to resist its own "tops" in its parties and to vote soberly for democracy. And that is why I will also vote against this law, which will bring a lot of grief and tears to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, the explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u113	Unfortunately, I must conclude that the government coalition in this National Assembly systematically violates Council of Europe recommendation 1402 and the Constitutional Court's decision. It is unheard of that some parliament should tighten its field of control, a field that has been narrow and has not been supported by some professional support, so that the controls that have been allowed so far can be effectively enforced. Because I do not want to be among those who are justly accused - we can help ourselves not to exercise control - I will not support this law with the "for" button. In fact, it is not the first time in history that they began to wonder only later when some authorities should resist. You know, even before World War II, everyone then found that the Munich Agreement would not have been if there had been enough strong leaders of the then superpowers, but they have given in, and so we are letting go to some of the government's intentions now, and it is a shame that this has happened in this national assembly. We're not in a position to interfere with governments and we don't want them. Only if we have laid down such a restrictive law on our own is it the great responsibility of this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u115	Because in our party, at the time that he was in power of Demos, and at the time when all the governments of liberal democracy, and also at the time of so-called Bajuk's government, we have advocated that the review of the work of security, intelligence - and also criminal services - be complete, transparent and clear; we are on the way to get a new law on the police: amended, supplemented, the roof that the government is preparing and because, in the meantime, some period of time has occurred, the emptiness - the constitutional court has said its own and because it is necessary to do so that all the services will be under control is more than enough of the argument that I will support this law, even though it has been made in some sense that some parties are cheering - and some Members are cheering - for this law to adopt, and others do so. On the contrary. I have always advocated the principle that Parliament, as the legislative branch of power, should be established and organised in such a way as to be able to control, supervise all those services that it has to do under the Constitution and the laws. And it's precisely because I stand up for this and because I'm terrified to think about what's been happening in the past and what's also happening in other countries, that various services are being misused for political purposes, and that in the past we can certainly claim this country as well, and because I want to avoid it, I will support this law. I expect the government to come as soon as possible with a roof law that will fully regulate this area. Therefore, even decisively, when I support this law, I also reject all those insinuations that go at the expense of czech, someone avoids control, and the others we are for it. I am putting myself on the side - and also a party to the Liberal Democracy - of when control must be exercised in all possible forms and in ways consistent with the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. Can I help you, Mr. Naughty? Here you go. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u117	I have to be so honest. I will vote in favour of the law, but without the illusions of Comrade Anderlich, we will be more skilled than professionals at the Ministry of the Interior, in Owl and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Since no one else - I think I see it right - does not want to explain their vote anymore, we will vote on the law as a whole. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. For vote 39, against 16. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. In relation to this law, a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Jerovsk also tabled an additional proposal for a decision, which reads: "The proposal for a law on parliamentary supervision of the work of security and intelligence services shall be prepared for the National Assembly by a group of experts in the cooperation of Members, members of the Supervisory Commission and the professional services of the National Assembly." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u119	Another sentence may be needed at the outset, but the point is that we do not have a roof law and that, in fact, everyone agrees that this roofing law is not going to be okay if it is prepared by government services. It is therefore best that a group of independent experts prepare it, of course, in cooperation with these services here. I think that even some discussions have already taken place, so that the government would actually agree that this would be the most elegant - and I hope we will vote because experts are in favour of helping prepare such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the proposal for an additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 31 to 20. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat for their cooperation. We're moving to 31. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mrs. Majda Zupan, on behalf of the motioners, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u121	[[...]] [[In the beginning, the microphone was turned off.]] We have tabled Members of New Slovenia in February because we have long believed that the current law governing local self-government is weak and inconsistent and does not fully follow the starting points and constitutional principles. [[...]] Even more, we find that, as such, conflicts between the local governments themselves hinder their development and their cooperation. With the proposal for amendments and additions, we wanted to enable the local government to function normally, while also regulating the right to interconnect local communities, to eliminate inconsistencies and to solve the problem of sharing common assets and more. We are aware that all proposed solutions may not be fully developed and that some proposals would require further expert judgement and change, which could be complemented through the procedure, but we wanted to discuss and adopt as soon as possible amendments and additions as necessary. That they are necessary, the government also recognises that it wants to reform the whole system of local self-government legislation - namely, the law on local self-government, by which it wants to place the local community in the public administration system, and to regulate the situation of municipal administrations, as well as municipal funding legislation. It is aware, however, that salaries and other payments should also be arranged for municipal officials. Some congregations responded and gave their opinions on the proposal. Some support the proposed amendments and additions, others disagree with them, and in most cases only that changes are necessary. In our parliamentary group we support a project of local self-government to end at the level of the municipalities, so we believe that local communities that meet the criteria are transformed into municipalities. The 2001 government programme also includes further coordination and complementarity of local self-government legislation, but we have not yet had the opportunity to get to know this, although the 2001 Seleta is almost over, so our proposal also presents some pressure in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. First, it must be said that the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 49 of the Law on Local Self-Government, has asked for an opinion on the proposal for a law, including the municipality. And in the report before you, they are - so it's nice to see what the congregations have told us in a row. It should then be added that the Secretariat has drawn attention to some legal and constitutional problems which the drafters have not resolved and are equally mentioned in the summary of the opinion of the secretariat. There was then supposed to be a general debate on the Committee, but I regret to say that there was a single member of the Committee and that there was no broader debate on this. Following the usual procedure, a decision or decision was taken to propose to the National Assembly that the law on local self-government should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? Here you are, Secretary of State, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you. I would like to point out that, in its explanation, the Government has precisely stated why it does not support the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government. Above all, I would like to point out that it is mainly some of the parts or some of the proposals contained in this law that are in conflict with the decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court. In particular, this concerns the status or changes in the status of local communities and the separation of the common property of municipalities which have been divided into several municipalities; as these provisions have been prepared, already existing in the current legislation on the basis of guidance and a decision of the Constitutional Court. Above all, I would like to point out that at this time of the postponement of this law a number of new elements have occurred, notably that the Constitutional Court has issued a decision binding on the legislator - which states that the current arrangement for the inclusion of the Roma community in the municipal council was contrary to the Constitution - and obliges the legislator to resolve this issue within a specific period of time. For this reason, the government is preparing, i.e. already in the procedure, an amendment to the law on local self-government, which, of course, in addition to regulating this issue of the inclusion of Roma representatives in the municipal councils - we have tried to include in this amendment some of the proposals that are exposed to the specific bill. Above all, I can say here that this is so - say - in relation to the community association, but much broader or covered is systematically this problem; and also to settle what has also been described by the Law and Legal Affairs Service as problematic in the specific law that we are dealing with. So our proposal also covers those proposals that are here, in which the government has already said that they are acceptable and only need to be widely regulated and addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Because no, I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. I did not receive written applications for the debate. The debate is limited to five minutes. Mr. Sok, please. I'm sorry. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! It seems to me, even though it is not willing after the debate, but that the area of local self-government is at least as important as the control of police work and the legality of the police work, which you were prepared to discuss for almost two hours just one article. The point is that the current legislation in this field is inconclusive, despite the fact that it has already experienced seven or no changes and that in this mass of all laws in this area, in fact, man cannot even know. The intention of this law was to draw attention to some outstanding issues that still remain, despite all these changes in local government legislation. Procedures for establishing new interconnections are pending, both within local self-government [[...]] [[Please, Mr. Lavrinez, if you could lower your tone a little. Maybe you guys can go out and talk.]] as well as between local communities themselves at the provincial or regional level to resolve the legal status of the local community. [[...]] So, what exactly is it with our local communities today? We still have them, and they've actually run out of financial resources everywhere. I don't know, maybe you think and expect this to solve the new self-contribution law, the local self-contribution; I don't personally believe that people will still be willing to finance their local development at all times, with all the taxes the government is forecasting. It is then the intention of this law that the local self-government should somehow be equalized in a non-discriminatory manner to the state administration and that the State also provide adequate resources for all those tasks it carries to the municipality. It is further proposed that local communities cooperate more equally in those laws which are important for local communities themselves and which are adopted by this Parliament. And to equalize the work of mayors - we know that many tasks in the field of local self-government are the same in both small and large municipalities, and that the award today is extremely discriminatory across individual local communities. So, all of this is indicated in this law and, as my fellow Member explained, the government could, with amendments to a solution that it disagrees with, amend this law and eventually make a move. However, I regret to note that this Parliament, with this internal policy committee, is somehow ignoring not only, I would say, the proponents, but also ignoring all the municipalities listed here - not many - which have examined this bill and actually agreed with it. None of these congregations, except perhaps one that has not been defined at all, rejected the law in its entirety, but stated what seemed good to them under this law and what else should be arranged. I hope, however, that despite this negative opinion by the Committee on Internal Policy, the government will examine these proposals and then include them in its law amending the law on local self-government, not only what the Constitutional Court imposed on Roma communities, but also to listen to other unresolved problems in these areas. There are a lot of these problems and they actually appear as a bar in the development of local self-government, and a lot of these inconsequential things are also somehow, I would say, blocking only the work of local self-government. One of these is, of course, the more equitable distribution of assets within communities that are divided into new congregations, which is also regulated and brought about by this proposal of law. I don't know if the Members have looked at these proposals at all, but it seems to me that the majority are somehow blindly trusting the Committee on Internal Policy, which has a negative position on this proposal, as in some other cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-13-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. As no one wants to discuss any further, on the basis of the Committee's proposal, we are moving on to a debate on the proposal for a decision, namely the proposal for a decision is contained in the report of 8.11.2001. "The committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, after the first examination of the draft law, in the framework of a rapid procedure, the following decision shall be adopted in accordance with Article 185 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government shall not be adopted." Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. 36 votes to 14. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the legislative process has been completed and this item of the agenda has been concluded. Your Honor! Just let me know. We will begin the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m., as already announced, by discussing the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, followed by the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda, which is elections and appointments. Let me just introduce you and remind you that there is a meeting of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in a large salon at 6.05 p.m. I ask the members of the commission to attend. Thank you so much and good night!
