ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In this mandate, we have succeeded in starting the meetings at exactly the hour, so that people will say that someone is just like Parliament. This will be a pleasure and a compliment to us. I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, colleagues Bojan Kontič, Jelko Kacin, colleague Majda Potrata, colleague Jože Tanko, Franz Kangler, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Janez Janša, Franci Rokavec for the start of the meeting, Stanislav Brenčič until 16:00 and colleague Franz Sušnik from 17:00 onwards. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please, by inserting a card into the voting device, we will determine the conclusion. I find there are 54 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome everything. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 38th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The assembly will then move on to the second item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the company law, and then in the order of order. We're moving to 38. On behalf of the candidates for the vice-president of the National Assembly. For elections, appointments and administrative matters, the Commission tabled a proposal for the election of Dr Michael Brejc as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give my word to Members and Members of Parliament? Nobody wants a word. On the basis of Article 69(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it decide that the speaker may speak for a maximum of 5 minutes in the course of the debate, if anyone so decides. Anybody want to sign up, I'm asking again? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly shall be secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-in-Office, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. This will be: colleague Rudolf Moge, colleague Branko Kelemina, colleague Aurelio Juri and colleague Valentin Pohorec. I am also a member of this commission as President. Anyone want a word on this proposal? [[Nobody.]] If so, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. We vote on the composition of the commission. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 53 votes in favour, no one objected. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the exercise of the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall mark on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been served. Vote by surrounding the word [[For]] or [[Against]] . In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more Members. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be in the Chamber, as they say, at the cabins. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 3 p.m. and 20 minutes, 2 p.m. and 20 minutes. But it'll take up to 14 hours and 40 minutes. We'll resume the session at 2 p.m. 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Please continue the session. My colleagues and colleagues are invited to show their presence in the Chamber by inserting a card into the voting apparatus. Please check with your colleagues if they may have left their cards in the device by mistake. Can you take another look at your colleagues? We're continuing our session. By inserting a card into the voting device, we determine the conjunctivities. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Minutes on the outcome of the elections for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission proposed Dr Miho Brejc as Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held on Wednesday, 21.3.2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 77 ballots were distributed. 77 ballots were delivered. Four votes were invalid. There were 73 valid ballots. 51 members voted in favour, with 22 members opposed. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, with 51 votes, elected Dr Michael Brejc as Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr. Vice President would like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for your support for this election. Of course, I will endeavour to do this role in the manner envisaged by the current and probably future rules of procedure. I would like to say, however, that I see this election as the start of one procedure for regulating the situation in the National Assembly in the sense that the opposition also has such a role to play so that it can carry out its place and mission. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on economic societies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. [[Yeah.]] You have the floor. Please, you can also speak from behind the speaker stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you. The proposer prepared the text of the second reading law in accordance with the views adopted at the first reading of the law. The biggest debate on the Committees was on two issues which the proposalr would like to explain a little bit more. He estimates that there may have been misunderstandings about some who were very upset that such a solution would undermine or endanger the system. The first set of questions refers to paragraphs 2 and 15 of the novel, which amends paragraphs 4 and 75 of the novel and regulates the conditions under which a company or independent entrepreneur may engage. The amendment of both articles is intended to support the so-called anti-biocratic programme [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, allow the Government's representative to present her views in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	and regulate and take into account something in a transparent manner. [[...]] The Act on Companies as a Corporate Regulation does not regulate the conditions, specific conditions for performing different types of activities such as, for example, special health, sanitary, technical and safety conditions, but regulates only the general condition for this, the dago-economic company acquires legal personality and begins to operate, and the general condition for a single entrepreneur, namely entry into a court register or, in the case of small independent entrepreneurs, entry into the relevant tax register. Therefore, in amendment 4 to Article 4, i.e. the new sixth and seventh paragraphs, as well as in the case of an individual entrepreneur, the law only provides that a company, as far as corporate law is concerned, may commence its activity when it is entered into the register. In paragraph 7, however, separates two situations, namely the situation of laws which do not regulate as an express condition for the commencement of an activity, in order to obtain prior authorisation from the entity confirming that it fulfils those conditions, this is addressed by the first sentence, which states that "if another law for the commencement of an activity in addition to a condition which is entered into a register, the company may begin to carry out that activity when it fulfils the specific conditions laid down in the second law". The second sentence, however, resolves the situation of those laws which consider it necessary for a specific type of activity - in particular, it will be likely that laws which are specifically aimed at consumer protection, i.e. consumer protection, as is likely to be the law on hospitality and laws governing health and other similar activities - and in these cases, the second sentence states: "If, in the case of the previous sentence, another law provides that a company may enter into action when a competent national authority or a public authority issues a decision establishing that the company fulfils the conditions for carrying out that activity, the company may begin to carry out that activity when the competent authority issues such a decision." In short, the Company Act does not wish to interfere with the parent areas of individual activities and the manner in which the conditions are regulated, the specific conditions for carrying out certain types of activities, and the same is true for individual entrepreneurs. The second group of issues raised concerns the public publication of the annual reports. In accordance with the first publicity directive in Article 55 of the basic text of the second reading law, the applicant proposed a solution whereby the annual reports should be made public by submitting them to the Court of Justice in a collection of documents which is public and accessible to everyone. On the basis of the debate on the parent committee, coordination and further discussions, the amendments to Article 11 were drafted in all four parliamentary groups, namely the new Article 55, and the amendment to Article 125, which is essentially the result of these discussions, which addresses these issues in a much more rational manner, the basic message to the applicant's basic proposal was that the solution was irrational, namely that, following the proposal of these amendments, the public publication of the annual reports should be ensured by submitting these reports to the organisation empowered to process and publish the data. Currently, it is a paying agency which must ensure that the public publication is published electronically on the relevant websites. At the same time, after this amendment, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice are empowered to prescribe more detailed procedures for proposing and informing the registrar that a public publication has been carried out. This, however, allows the Minister of Justice to inform the entire or part of the register of documents under the Law on the Court Registry, at the same time to be considered as part of a collection of documents which is an integral part of the Registry and thus is not only more rational but also consistent with the first Publicity Directive. However, for the majority of operators, the additional rationality, most of our economic operators having the same economic year, allows the amendment to Article 125, which provides that those entities having the same calendar year may also communicate the data from the annual reports for the purposes of statistical and macroeconomic processing, at the same time stating that these annual reports submitted for the purpose of publication under Article 55 should be considered as statistical data. The proposer also proposed 13 amendments to the draft law to the National Assembly. The common purpose of these amendments is to remedy some of the shortcomings of the current regulation of company law so that it becomes systemicly comprehensive and rounded up. With regard to the individual amendments proposed, the proposer will then make a statement to the contrary. At the same time, the applicant proposes to the National Assembly that the third examination of the law be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly within seven days of the receipt of the third reading text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Dr. Nina Plaza, thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Blaž Kavčič, to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A short report on the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the company law. In particular, I would like to point out that we have received a very broad range of opinions, proposals, suggestions, protests, which have been very carefully addressed by all the Committees when this proposal is being considered. At the first meeting of the Committee on the Economy, we discussed amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, amendments of Ambassador Blaž Kavčič [[These are my amendments that I have taken on the proposal of the Agency for Payments Agency]] the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the conclusions and views of the National Assembly adopted at the first reading, the comments of the Bureau of Labour Protection, the proposals of the amendments of the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Nova Gorica, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the comments and opinions of the Committee of State for Economic Affairs with the amendments, the comments and proposals of the amendments of the company of Delnik and the views of the applicant on the comments made. I'm not going to burden you with details, because Dr. Platez has already described the contents of the building carefully enough. I would like to point out, in particular, that the Committee has quite firmly defined to support all those proposals, both the proposer and the opposing proposals, which have supported simplifications of greater transparency of business, not to complicate or impose further restrictions on company registration and business, and, as I have already mentioned, to make business more transparent. A number of amendments were therefore adopted on the Committee itself. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on my proposal, a number of amendments were unanimously adopted, which I later withdrew, as you will see in the material, because they occurred in the interim period to the realization of what the Committee and also personally wanted. In fact, there has been substantive harmonisation mainly between the paying agency and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On this occasion, I would like to express my thanks to Dr Plaège, who has shown a very high level of willingness to take useful initiatives, so I hope to say that there has been a bill that is better than the original proposal and also changes that are better than the changes that I have proposed, on a proposal, particularly the paying agency. Among other things, this process has led to the continued provision of simple bookkeeping for individual entrepreneurs. However, I must also say that there have been some other suggestions that we will try to put together with the government in the text of the proposal for a third reading. The Committee on the Economy therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the following two additional decisions. Firstly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should proceed without delay with the preparation of the Anti-Burocratic Programme by preparing appropriate grounds for eliminating all unnecessary obstacles to the start of the business both for companies and for independent entrepreneurs, as laid down in the Commercial Law and in laws laying down specific conditions for the performance of a particular activity. Secondly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the comments and proposals of the amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on companies, the second treatment prepared by Delnik and, where appropriate, to prepare and submit an appropriate proposal for a law to the legislative procedure. Dr. Plaběstov spoke a little more about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Legislature? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go. Mr. Kelemina on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues. Our Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party would like to point out that the amendment of the Company Act in this case is a matter of historical change. In fact, it is not only about coordinating part of our legislation with some of the European Community's guidelines on the acquis, but in fact with these changes we are fundamentally interfering with the system-wide regulation of relations between owners and managers of capital and businesses in Slovenia. With these changes that are now ahead of us in the second reading are not somehow from the first reading quite inconceivably and went quietly forward, we are somehow leaning towards another concept that we have now established with us. In the world, there are two extreme models of corporate governance, the American, the English, and the German system. Of course, we are now taking some elements from the English-American system, but we also include elements of the German system and are working on a compromise solution. According to our assessment, the world's predominant English concept is the American concept. The Minister of Economy has always advocated this concept in her presentations. I miss her here today, though. It would be good to have her present. It is also listed in the material itself as a representative of this law and it would be right to be present today and to answer some dilemma and question. According to our assessment, certain rights are taken to the Assembly as such and are granted to management authorities. In particular, these rights are concentrated on the director of the company not only in having a profit and all other decisions, but the whole set of decisions that have actually been in the assembly now is passed on to management bodies by amending this law. According to our assessment, it is extremely chlorinated, fundamental changes that are actually going relatively quietly forward. Of course, we don't support such a concept. We are not in favour of concentrating power and power in the governing bodies, but we believe that capital owners must have the right, which is also somehow established in the concept of the English system and which is also evolving in this direction. Mixing these two concepts, German and American, is not our best judgment. That is why we have also tabled amendments in this direction, bringing back certain rights that are now being taken back to the congregation in our amendments. I hope that you Members - it is a bit embarrassing now, because the matter in deciding on the amendments - will be considered and decided correctly or you will try to understand that the concept in this system is actually changing. I would like to say that, above all, the United Nations has somehow advocated this concept of collective decision-making. Now I think he's in the government to keep his mouth shut. It would be right if those concepts that they had advocated in the previous period when they were in opposition would also try to apply now. It's also their thing, of course, but so much so that I can remember. Let me get this straight. It's a matter of historical change. We must be aware of this, and I hope that we will also accept certain amendments in this spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Mr. Kelemina, thank you very much. Does anyone else want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposed decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments, of 28. 2. 2001 We got a few more amendments on the bench today. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 1. One is the amendment of a group of Members, signed first by Majdo Shirca. You got that amendment on the bench today. And it's under two amendments to the Economic Committee. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. It is necessary, if not for another reason, because it is a set of amendments which are dealt with and annexed to the law of this meeting. We have tabled our amendments by proposing that, in the future, the laws dealt with by the National Assembly should be applied in the first or meaningfully in the first articles of the articles, the women's sex. As you recall, the first amendment of the first law at the first meeting of the National Assembly was adopted in this composition, and this was unanimously adopted by a dictatorship which imposed a correction which abolished discriminatory treatment of women in Slovenian legislation and even in the Constitution. With the amendment adopted at the time - it was a matter of changes and additions to the government law - the government could also be made up of ministers and the government could also be chaired by a woman. Of course it's a symbolic correction, you'll say. Even then, it has been said that the Prime Minister has already behaved equally enough in the composition of this Prime Minister, so that I will not use the term feminist, and insist, even firmly, that there are ministers in the government. In order not to be ministers, we, with the amendment of the National Assembly at that time, eliminated this formal disagreement. But at the same time, this adjustment is certainly not merely formal, in the form that we are proposing now. Apparently, men don't care. Almost all acts [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Thank you. Almost all acts in the Slovenian legal order are exclusively men's sex, which means they are politically incorrect. It is the national assembly, as a legislative body that legitimizes the rights and obligations of citizens and citizens, that must be aware that it represents both men and women. Therefore, the signatories and the signatory propose that, in the future, in the drafting of legal acts, we apply consistent equality between the two genders. We expect that this proposal will also be heard by the Slovenian language office, which was newly established by the previous government and which has not yet been articulated by this proposal. This proposal and this was discussed extensively by the Committee established for the Slovenian language within the National Assembly at the Committee on Culture, Education and Science. Due to the impracticality of the consistent use of both sexes in Slovenian legislation, we proposed a solution at the first meeting of the newly established assembly of Members and Members to apply the principle of equality between the two sexes in the first or first articles of each law. Therefore, on the table, you have a set of amendments, almost all the laws of this meeting of the National Assembly, with which we want the signatories and the signatories to make sense, I stress, in a meaningful way, to enforce the dual-sex dictatorship in the initial articles of the laws under consideration. We have released those laws that are at first reading or third reading, or those that no longer have open articles of this kind at third reading. However, for those laws that are at first reading, it is assumed that the applicants will draw up an appropriate solution in the second reading. In short, I suppose you will have no doubts about voting, as you never have any doubts when you advocate a greater presence of women in public life, otherwise we will understand that you prefer to define yourselves at the principal level than at the concrete level. At the same time, I propose that, as has already been said, but apparently due to the abundance of other jobs, unrealised, in a special working body, perhaps within the Internal Policy Committee, and together with the legal service and with the competent body within the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport dealing with Slovenian language, we agree on more precise rules and more consistent rules for the implementation of this proposed principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened with interest to my colleague Majda Shirca, and I must say that I fully agree. The only thing that bothers me is that what she did here and took care of some media presentation, the colleague didn't enforce in writing a coalition contract. It's got everything that the coalition's gonna do down there. This coalition was obviously not prepared to respect gender equality at that stage. Now he's doing propaganda. I see that sometimes the blacksmith's mare is barefoot, because also the amendment to the media law, I think it was written in the basic version when you were the secretary of state, so that your implementation, I may be wrong, I also take it as partly self-critical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Just to clarify. Dr. Brace wants a replica. But this is not Mrs Majda Shirca's amendment, which is an amendment, at least ten MEPs, who have been legitimised at this stage of the procedure to table an amendment. Dr. Brace Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Well, I think that gender equality is certainly justified, especially when it comes to legal dictions. Of course, we are also bound here by traditions that differ in European countries. As everyone knows, in the English-speaking field, strict consideration of both sexes is, for example, strictly. There's no other way. I forgive myself for not being able to tell you exactly at this moment how the position of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences has been precisely on this matter, and I would ask if it is possible to avoid these discussions in the future. I think they are justified, but to do as I say, science in the Slovenian language suggests that we ask an expert in this area, because I think they advised that in the Slovenian official language they understand both men. But of course that's the interpretation that I quote from memory, and I'm not saying it's exactly like that. However, the question addressed to the competent national assembly would certainly help to resolve this issue. That the situation is not so black, but it also shows today’s agenda. I have nothing against point 39, which says: a motion for a decision appointing a secretary-general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have in this set of amendments quite a few laws covered to be resolved in this way, the way in which I respect the content. However, from a procedural point of view, it might suggest an answer whether to abstain from the way that we will amend one article and then both sexes for the whole law. In addition, Shirca’s colleague indicated that in the drafting of laws that would come in the process, it would suggest thinking about this and adapting the whole law. However, if we adopt one article with the text proposed, and we subsequently find that the whole law should be so worked out, it means that we must amend at least the articles containing such solutions. Then we should, I don't know how in the procedure, change a lot of articles in the laws we have in this shed where the amendments are tabled, with both sexes. Before we decide, I would like an answer, I don't know whether it's a secretariat or anyone else to say, if it's enough to be amended in this way in the introduction of this law, and that we have then resolved the entire content of the law with both sexes in the way proposed in these amendments with ten signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I give the floor first to Mr Rudi Mohet, then to Mr Sok. Before that, however, you allow Mrs Tina Bitenc to explain to her colleague Gezi Juban. Can I? Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If I have understood the amendments, they shall, in particular, follow the symbolic effect of Article 1, irrespective of further legal text. In this regard, however, I would add that exactly, say, the company law has a whole set of further words, which are mostly used and which will be used only in male form, they are partners, they are shareholders, they are founders and so on. That's the effect, I'll say, in a sense, small or really symbolic, and I don't know if it's universal because it's relatively little of a concept right now in a woman's form. These initiatives have already taken place. I have to explain that we've dealt with them before. I would like to inform you that, I will say, the strict implementation of the two-sex form due to the specificity of the Slovenian language which bows and which has a permanent fund of sex with any form, I am not a Slavist, I do not know how to use these words properly, very difficult to implement and would make the marriage texts extremely difficult. The founder has also faced this problem, and I would only like to point out that if you pay attention, there are general provisions, that is, constitutional principles regarding citizens and citizens, both of them, which then transforms through the constitution into citizens. In this way, some compromises, particularly when we use terms in the law, could be worked out in general provisions, but I stress that it is indeed necessary to agree and then set a legal standard in this area, which will then be respected and enforced by all law-makers, in particular the Government, as a great lawmaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Mogue has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. The National Assembly, as well as the Committee on Culture and Education, had already dealt with this problem in previous periods, so that it would be good to, not today, but, say, within two or three days, share with Members those materials that were also made by the working body which this committee has and is concerned with Slovenian language. The National Assembly adopted a law, one of the laws, in such a form, in a two-sex form. I must say that the writing of this law and then the adoption and consideration of semantics, syntaxes and pragmatisms were extremely difficult. That is why I would recommend to everyone who decides on this matter that we first look at this matter, because this thing has already happened here to review it and then, on the basis of those experiences, transfer some things to the Members. The problem, however it is now set, is not as innocent as it seems, and it is necessary to answer the principled questions before we decide on it. But today, there is no answer to the principled things here, except for some symbolism or other instructions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. So, Mrs Shirca, your fellow Member says that the materials should only be distributed to Members, so we add "and to Members". I wanted to draw attention to what Mrs Bitenchev has already said, so it is said that we would not have problems with such a quick decision. Look, under this law, we already have the Veterinary Act. Here I would like to draw attention to the law on academic titles and professional titles. That's what Dr. Brace's principles are. We should see and probably change things in any other area first, and then we could also introduce this matter into other laws, as you proposed on behalf of the Members here today. Why am I talking about the law on academic titles and professional titles? Because they're mostly in male sex. [[Advertise from the bench: and to women.]] Not all of them. For example, if I speak of my field, this law does not know the term: a doctor of veterinary medicine, but speaks only in men's sex. And since we now have a veterinary law, a whole bunch of articles in this law should also turn conversational into a woman's sex. I don't know if that would be consistent with this law. Therefore, it might be necessary to ask earlier and then decide on such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	I'll make a compromise proposal. He's really a little bit like that, that's funny. To avoid anyone or our colleagues being neglected, I suggest that only one sex, women and men are used to write laws from the village of Gore, as far as I know. Thank you. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Leo Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. So we can find a million reasons against them and look for them. Only one reason can be "yes" and this is correct. I myself propose that we are correct to this initiative and accept it as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, which is to decide first on the first amendment to Article 1. This, therefore, is the amendment of the Group of Members and the first-signed Member Majdo Shirca. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 7. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on the Economy. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 1. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 2. First, we will consider the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democracy of Slovenia, which you received on the bench, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two is irrelevant. Under 2 we will consider the amendment of which the Committee on the Economy is proposing. This amendment is linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 15. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. We are now in Article 2 or Article 4 of the basic law. We have tabled a new amendment that has not actually been considered on the Committee because we have tabled it after a closed meeting of the Economic Committee. To be honest, I would rather not, personally right now, want a broad debate to develop here again with regard to Article 2 or Article 4 of the basic law. In fact, we have already discussed this article a lot on the Committee itself, and we have been trying to clarify what this new amendment is really bringing. Our assessment is somehow, and this confirmation has also been obtained by the profession that such a liberal, somehow free definition, which is now proposed in Article 2, because of other systemicly unregulated matters, can cause serious, serious mistakes or even some major accidents, interventions into space, human health, etc. In particular, inspection services in our country find that, in view of all these trends that are present in us, regarding various new plants, new companies, transformations of old companies, interference in the construction of buildings, premises, etc., these inspection services of this, at least so insist - we also have some written documents - these are not yet able to control. If we allow a certain company to start its business by entering the register of justice, which of course means that when it enters the register of justice it is necessary to comply with all the conditions prescribed by law, it is appropriate to take into account the law on the construction of buildings and all other laws, since the inspector may come in the second day and require that data from that company. If this company does not have this information, it is not sufficient to meet the conditions other than the registration in the Register of Justice, it may be punished. However, since our inspection institutions have found that they will simply not be able to carry out and control this extensive business in a timely manner, they will be able, as they warn themselves, to do more in cases where there will be disasters, accidents and so on. That is why we have proposed a compromise proposal so that the company can start its activity when it is entered into the Registry of Justice and when it signs a declaration that it has fulfilled all the conditions, it begins to carry out this activity. Within one year, however, it is only possible to obtain a permit which the relevant authority would issue and within one year would certainly be able to obtain, and our administration, which now, at least so, has been said on the committee, has somehow hampered this free economic initiative, in order to probably satisfy this condition, so that society can then also formally fulfil its activities. We have, to be perfectly honest with you, precisely because of this broad debate on the Committee on the Economy, Article 2 has been amended by a minimal amendment, so that we have somehow also left open space so that we may still have a thorough examination of matters after the third hearing, and then perhaps also have a better solution. Now, if this proposal, which we propose, is not adopted, this compromise proposal, if not adopted, will not be a disaster, because in any broader debate, in the third reading, we can change this amendment or this article by not causing a disaster in Slovenia. It must not happen that at the expense of some free economic initiative, which is certainly provided by the Constitution, we should go into causing other anomalies, particularly those which are essentially important for people where human health, the environment and so on are concerned. For all these consequences, if there were any positive effects on the free economic initiative where these changes would result in some greater expansion in this area, in another area there could be irreparable harm to the health of people who would again be at the burden of the country as such, because we know that these things are social security and health, somehow the cost of work, not some purely imaginary side-effect. I don't know, because we didn't discuss on the committee what the government has to say about this, whether it accepts it or not. We have proposed this, we have also given an explanation, so we expect others to think in this direction and that this proposal, which we are proposing, could be wisely supported. The same applies, of course, to independent entrepreneurs. We have also proposed a similar solution there, and then, even with that amendment, I would not explain things again. So much for an explanation. I would also like to ask for a comment from a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Would you like to explain, Mrs. Nina Pladd? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that if this amendment were to be adopted - so I have read the current text before in the bill - that it would not contribute to the anti-biocratic programme, but would, in fact, sustain it in some way, but prolong the situation as it is now. This has been extensively explained in the Committee's debate, and the lack of clarity in the legislation has led to the view that, in addition to these specific authorisations for certain specific activities, there is a need to obtain a general over-compensation that is not regulated elsewhere, the conditions to be met for this general over-compatibilation are nowhere to be regulated. This, however, causes considerable difficulty in starting an activity. That is why the proposaler wanted to make something very clear when drawing up this article for the second reading. Clearly, the Company Act as a corporate regulation only determines when a corporation as a legal entity arises. So, with the registration in the court register. Then, in paragraph 7 of the new Article 4, which is amended by Article 2, he divided the two positions. It has delimited the most common situations when specific laws provide for certain types of activities, specific conditions such as: for the start of the operation - I do not know - of any activity, it is necessary to fulfil the relevant technical conditions relating to safety at work and so on and, in such cases, to provide that where a specific law lays down the conditions for the performance of the activity, the company may, in such a case, enter into this activity only when it fulfils those conditions. Thus, the applicant has distinguished from the situation which is then regulated in the second sentence of this paragraph, laws which, because of the "personal" danger, either expressly stipulate for human health that the entity must not engage in activities until it fulfils certain conditions and until the competent authority decides by permission that the entity has fulfilled those conditions. And I would like to point out something else, because there was also a lot of talk about the technical conditions of buildings. The assessment of whether a particular facility complies with the relevant technical regulations and therefore does not jeopardise the safety of the environment shall be carried out in specific procedures which do not directly relate to the exercise of an activity, namely in the procedures for the issue of a location permit, building permit and use permit. These procedures, in particular the procedure for issuing the building permit and the useable one, are intended to verify whether the facility - regardless of whether it is carried out for business or for other purposes - complies with the relevant technical regulations to be respected in order to ensure that the facility is safe. However, these procedures have no relation to the matter covered by this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Vision, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Look, I don't agree with the government's representative in some matters. But I can tell you, I've been doing this job myself for five years. I was a health and safety inspector at work all over Posavje, and I know where the problems are. And this law and this change is going to go completely into content, and it's going to have huge consequences on the ground. And I agree and support the Anti-Birocratic Programme, and in these principles I support the Anti-Birocratic Programme when it comes to reducing procedures when it comes to reducing deadlines where unnecessary red tape is involved, unnecessary verification of certain matters. I certainly support this and I am the first to - but this change interferes with the content. [[...]] It is an act of compliance with certain rules or not. I am asking a question to the government representatives, namely, I have a law on safety and health at work. This law states that the provisions of this Act shall apply in all activities and to all persons who are insured under the rules on pension and disability insurance and health insurance and who are otherwise present in the work process. And later on, in fundamental principles, the law says in fundamental principles that the employer is obliged to ensure safety and health at work and that he is obliged to respect preventive measures. That's what they say he has to do before he can't fix it in time. I'm asking if it's that special rule because it's not a special rule. This is a general regulation that tanges all employers and no one should have taken up their activities before taking care of safety and health at work in the context of its work process. There are still a number of such areas: protection of the environment, protection of the passersby, fire protection and the like. These are all regulations of a general nature. And now I'm asking a representative of the government. In accordance with these amendments, can the employer today begin to carry out an activity when he is entered into a court register and - I would say - does not meet these general conditions? For example, I can only tell you that today any of us can probably not, because this incompatibility prevents us, for example, from registering certain exotic things, such as the journey to the moon. In the register, you can put this in the court register if you want some standard calcification of this. However, it is up to the competent administrative authority to assess whether or not you meet the conditions and after that, someone with some improvised missiles will be able to do so, as no one will verify whether or not they are capable of doing so. It's a little - I'd say - ironic, but that's enough. Because in these permits, I want to say, it's not bureaucracy, it's content. And why do people consider these permits to be a bureaucratic document many times? Because they don't meet the conditions and they can't get them. That's the problem, and that's why they don't have it. I support the idea that permits, let's say, are superfluous, but everyone who starts an activity must respect the prescribed conditions in the law, and this is also the basic guide of the Department of Safety and Health at Work, which has been given in these comments by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That's one thing. Another thing that causes - say - the deletion of this permit; also, I would say, a very important consequence in the law on prevention of work and employment in black. For we need to know that today, according to the local word, the person who is engaged in an activity was considered to be a troublemaker, and he does not have the right permission to do so. Today, for example, for a metal cutter, no one prescribes any special ones, except for all these general laws, some special regulations; and someone will start a metal cutting activity, will not report anywhere, there will be no element of control for taxation, because it is not their taxable person and they do not control it at all. So far the only market inspectors have prosecuted this matter and sought these decisions in accordance with Article 4 of the Company Act. I want to know, because it's the branches of the coalition contract and the general principles that we're going to pursue the rainforests or the grey economy. How will we determine the grey economy of transactions - how, if we no longer have these documents, on which we have identified them so far? In this respect, I would like to ask for answers from a government representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Nina Pladez.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you. Well, to most of your questions, I think I answered the previous question. If we look at exactly how it begins - then I will also get to safety at work - as the seventh paragraph of Article 4 begins, it is said to him, "if the second law stipulates", does not say "special law" in the sense that lawyers are understood as "lex specialis". Thus, the quoted law on safety at work is undoubtedly part of such a "second law". I have some knowledge of safety at work myself, and in particular in the areas of the most tragic consequences, because I have been judging accidents at work for several years, and I know that the greatest accidents at work do not occur because when someone started doing this activity, no one checked whether they had all the rules, but because these rules are either because of the rush of work or because of other reasons during the course of their activities. If we think of accidents with the worst consequences, such as the fall from construction stages in construction. So that the applicant no doubt assesses that such an amendment, as proposed in the text, will not result in these serious consequences because they do not arise from the reason that they were not verified at the time of the start of the operation, but because they did not verify these conditions during the course of the activity of the competent person, including the safety engineers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Yes, thank you for your word. Of course, disaster has not taken place until now, but if such a regulation has been in place that everyone has had to meet the conditions beforehand! And I'm afraid that if we release this - I hope not and from your explanation I understand that it must respect all measures of safe work, environmental protection, but it is no longer necessary to have decisions about this. This is what I support to ensure that the inspection authorities find out, even though they are not enough. For example, there has been no inspector for the Posavia area for six months now. This is said to be the case, see how many economic operators can be there. But let's just leave it. That's what you're saying. That argument doesn't hold up. I'm sorry that it's not of course at first, but now if we leave it, that is to say, there will be no more prevention, there will be only curativeness, and more will happen at the beginning. [[...]] Because at first it was different. But you haven't answered me at all, as far as forestry is concerned or as to how, if this is presented somehow, the solution must also be found, how it will now be served to the woodsmen or how we will identify the work in black. [[...]] I'm not talking about black work. It's a black job. That's what you call doing business - without anything if it doesn't need anything. That's what I'm asking. I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Nina Pladz can answer first, and then I give my word. Replica. Question, then in the end, here's Dr. Michael Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	I'm sorry, my colleague Brace first took the floor, then Mr Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. It is certainly important that the Government or the Republic of Slovenia is trying to release the conditions for opening up these activities, but I also understand a colleague from Visionak who has extensive experience in this area from direct practice. I would therefore like to ask the government how it intends to regulate the behaviour of those who will open up, so register the activity, and consciously play everything that should be done, but it is not. For the fact is that - here I refer to my experience in practice abroad, when I have seen that in many European countries, registration and, of course, the statement of the one who opens the company, the activity to fulfil and then surrounds all of which can be prescribed and, of course, by signing itself that it is true, points out if the inspection in three, four days finds that this is not the case. In Britain, for example, they have a very clearly defined sanction for such conduct. An entrepreneur who has failed to meet the condition or who has acted contrary to what he has stated is, of course, subject to very, very severe sanctions, and I am interested in how the government will deal with this issue or how this sanctioning part of non-compliance, otherwise very liberal provisions, will be regulated. Because if disrespect occurs, many people will be able to be severely affected, even when it comes to their health, not only in black work and so on. So I'm asking for an explanation in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. First Mr. Kelemina, then Mr. Mitja Gaspari. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Look, I would just maybe continue a little bit what my colleague has just asked me, but on some specific case with us, I'd like to ask if Mrs Plaèeva can explain. In fact, see if anyone would start any activity by just signing into a court register. Before that, however, he did some major damage to the structure of the facility, in the sewer, where it shows that the sewage and these things are being flushed out uncontrollablely, etc., and a whole series of other interventions, and for this he did not obtain any building permit, he did not want to obtain, but he did all the things he had done in black. And because it has spaces, it has all the other conditions for entering the Court Register, it actually starts its activity. But he passed the law, led the company to be able to start working. And now, if there is no inspector who comes to control whether he has actually completed a building with construction permission, whether he has complied with those regulations, those regulations. If the inspector is not five years old, he will do this for five years without anyone controlling him. I would ask if it would explain whether this means that someone goes into black into the construction operations of the facility and any other interventions that are provided for by other laws, general and special. And if there is no inspector, or then - well, especially the general laws - he can start the activity or not. I would need this explanation, and I will be able to make a decision on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question or comment goes not so much on the particulars that colleagues have mentioned, but rather on the general decision of the National Assembly on what the anti-biocratic programme will look like when it comes to the adoption of those legislative projects that have a direct link with bureaucratic or administrative procedures. That is why I have proposed and is also a colleague of the Committee on the Economy, Mr Ferri Horvat - I think to all the parliamentary groups - I have divided the text, unfortunately in English, of the international institutions at the AFS, this is FIAS, who has done a study in Slovenia on what are basically the most important bureaucratic or more said administrative obstacles to normal or - I would say - the better functioning of institutions and better procedures for potential domestic and foreign investors. It is about 6 pages long or 7 pages long analysis with recommendations. Some of them, I think, could be done; and I think the government has taken them into account in this part, in the company law - as far as possible - in a certain way already. I think it would be good for every law from now on, if, of course, most would agree that the communications of these studies and, within this, probably the decisions of the Government are such that they lead in a positive way, to establish a procedure for each law to determine whether the law does not contain solutions that impede such progress in procedures or to define in the legislative text those procedures that complement some administrative procedures, complicate administrative procedures and determine whether this is absolutely necessary. Sometimes this is absolutely necessary for reasons that are also taken into account abroad [[Health, hazardous substances, etc.]] However, many times this is simply a transfer of responsibilities from the basic act to sub-legislative acts and bodies, which, of course, in practice, if they are not well prescribed, further complicate the life of all those who appear economically active. That is why I think it would be wise - I myself have no proposal, except perhaps a decision in this law - for a simple national assembly to impose on the government, on the other hand, it is also likely for each law to be dealt with that formal point, which must be reviewed first and determined whether it is in accordance with these principles, which are internationally clearly accepted. And if you look at this study, the one you're not yet or the one you're familiar with is the guidelines - I think - are clear and relatively easy to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nina Pla however, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	I'll go in the same order as the questions were asked. The first was about preventing work in black. I reiterate that this law does not allow or allow - just this novel - anyone to violate any other law governing the conditions for the exercise of an activity, including the obligations of employers governed by the law on the prevention of black work. And in particular, only by the fact that someone gets that global permit at the start of an activity will you not cause or prevent the black work that is taking place during the course of an activity. As regards the second question of how the government intends to regulate or sanction violations of individual laws governing these conditions, the answer is that sanctions for infringements are determined by each of these laws. In the case of the law on safety at work, sanctions are high and, as I know, because of the high sanctions at stake, economic operators have taken extremely seriously the coordination period that runs out this summer with the law on safety at work. Then I reiterate that even if the State made a specific statement typical of an English system regime, however, it threatened that if you had made this false statement, even with some sanction, it would not have eliminated the cause and effect, as we would again need an adequate number of qualified inspectors to find out that this was a false statement, and only through another pocket would it have been the same result that the competent inspectors should now also have to verify, under different laws, whether the economic operators comply with all the laws governing the conditions for carrying out their activities. However, as regards the third question related to the case of a person entering an economic society in a court register, and then making a complete reconstruction of an establishment and then the inspector walks for five years and only five years later finds that the facility endangers health, and only the fact that there is no need for a specific global permit to start an activity is no doubt a reason - since this same entity would, for example, be able to obtain this global permit in the same case and one month after that, make such a reconstruction of the facility. In short, I reiterate: construction interventions are not in essence a condition for carrying out activities but are regulated by building regulations, whether the facility is intended to carry out an activity or something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Yes, thank you very much for your answer. I fully agree with what the lady has said. However, the point is that, if we were to enforce or if we were still to have this matter regulated in the old way, as it says in the existing law, it is only in order to carry out the activity that the competent authority has to determine this, for example, before the start of an activity, if, in accordance with the rules, it has met the short conditions for carrying out this activity; then it is very unlikely that someone will take a step into an object within a month and then, due to this cost, if earlier - let's say - it has satisfied all the conditions and has built some object that has been reviewed, which has been so-called verified with inspectors and with all the records and pre-delivery or decision-making. I don't think anyone's going to do something like this in a month. And it was this existing law that prevented such catastrophic consequences, and now we are simply deleting it and we are no longer prescribing these conditions and there is a significantly higher probability, of course, of a significantly higher, several times more likely that there will be an abuse of legislation if there is no longer any of these controls currently prescribed by the existing law. That is why we have proposed a compromise solution in order, at least in view of the fact that someone has to meet these conditions under the laws of some activity, to obtain at least one year the certificate that ensures that it is actually satisfied with these conditions. If that is not the case, but it can really happen - what look, I hope that you all - at least part of the report - one report on the work of the Inspector of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space, otherwise for 1999, where it speaks nicely - with what problems they have read - will not be read now, you probably get - what problems they face - how busy jobs are, how busy jobs are about a hundred thousand applications per year, how about changes in permits, registrations and so on and how much of the inspector they now have, and with these services alone - let's say - an inspector for the environment and space is not able to somehow exercise control over those entities who are performing certain activities or any way change their working conditions. [[...]] [[...]] In short, according to our assessment, this - indeed - positive relief may somehow have an impact, as I said before, on some free economic initiative, and we think it can cause a substantial amount of damage, which the state and the community will then suffer in the future. Now, if it's possible back here that even because of our incompetence, someone from the European Community is going to try to abuse this system of ours, an inefficient system of controls and surveillance, trying to open up some dirty technologies or anything else in this account. If this is speculation, then we must be so much more careful and simply set some conditions here that there will not be too many consequences for our system and for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I see that I owe a certain explanation, and then I will ask another question to the government. In such a way that it is clear that this amendment of the law will abolish the obligation to obtain an administrative unit decision in respect of the fulfilment of the minimum technical and other conditions for the exercise of an activity. That's what we need to know, that's what's stopping it, and that's what's coming in the future, and if it's accepted, it won't. It will only be in cases where it is expressly one of the other, a specific provision provides for, but very few. This means that a certain company may then register and enter into an activity without pre-emptive verification of whether or not it fulfils certain conditions, unless, of course, this is otherwise specified in the special rules. That's one thing. The other thing is, look, I have before me a law on prevention of work and employment in black, which is also one of the fundamental objectives of how to eradicate forestry and work in black, and it tells us what work is in black. The black work is to carry out, inter alia, activities, if the entity - either that it is a legal person or, I don't know, a purely natural person - does not have the required documents to fulfil the conditions for carrying out a registered activity. I wonder if we are now withdrawing this permit and this document proving that someone fulfils the conditions for carrying out the activity, this is the decision under Article 4, paragraph 6, of the Company Act, which is an alternative document which will show that someone is not a rainforest? Example: Someone will come to a workshop and find out now whether it's a storm or not. How's he gonna find out? Only from notification to the tax authority, only from this notification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, if you allow me to also come from this place as a Member and join in your debate, I would nevertheless like to explain in my knowledge of the work of the administrative unit where red tape begins in this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	From an entrepreneur for whom a special provision - for example, a hospitality law, a trade law - did not specify the conditions, but was subject to an assessment of only general conditions, the administrative unit has always, as a first step, requested a useful permit for a business facility in which all types of activities, including for a normal business space for carrying out certain service activities, were provided. Here we come to the conclusion that in the process of issuing a user-friendly permit for a particular business facility, under the building law, all authorities cooperate under these rules. This is thus the body which protects fire safety, health care, then what is listed here, health and, in particular, environmental protection, in this procedure, all the experts with full responsibility of the designer are involved in the establishment for which the project, location and other documentation and in the permit provide conditions for such conditions to be taken into account in such a business facility. Where procedures begin to duplicate here. When someone gets a useful permit for a business facility we call the inn, it is actually all technical conditions and protection at work and environmental protection, etc. fulfilled because it has been regulated all the time by the state authorities. However, the experts who went back to the space in the Environment Department to look at this facility again looked at the same conditions. And the party had to compensate the experts, in particular the workplace, again uncontrolledly by the State for the amount of the same work that the administrative authority had previously done on behalf of the State. It was bureaucracy, twice. Within a week, the commission came to the man, looking at the same thing, only that he paid the other commission once more. In short, the use permit is, of course, regulated under the building law and is the competence of the construction inspector. Of course, someone in a facility that does not meet these conditions will start to work, and the environment will not like this - very quickly, the construction inspector will ban this kind of activity. Here I think that the market will regulate this type of activity itself, which the environment does not accept, and I think that - it is said - this government proposal nevertheless leads to a solution that one degree of red tape, which is also regulated by the State, is no longer regulated here by the state, but from this process of obtaining permits, is no longer allowed. However, that an additional supplementary proposal from the Home Working Committee is in the direction that, however, for those activities where the State considers that the specific conditions must be met, it lays down these conditions and also the body to which it will identify them. As far as the Veteran Act is concerned, we're going to face a case like this. So that I think that if we support the government, one part of the bureaucracy in the authorisation process will be cut off for entrepreneurs and they will be relieved of their work here. As soon as possible, however, the government must approach the processing of specific areas where it must protect public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Mag. Vizier, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I owe you one replica. Look, I agree with you that this is ideally the way it is; and you've probably seen it as head of the administrative unit from the office. And I see it differently from the field. Look! First of all, the usable licence refers to the facility and absolutely nothing to the legal entity that will carry out the activity inside. A license to use, like a building permit, gets an object. The object on the role of a certain investor, usually the owner. This facility, at this and this address, is capable of carrying out this activity. This is a usable permit. However, there is nothing to say about whether this and this legal entity, a private entity, fulfils all the minimum technical and other conditions for it to be able to do so in this facility. I'll give you an example. The license of use may apply when you appointed the inn, for - I would say - one inn and is inside - I don't know; Kramar s.p. conducts a guest activity. Tomorrow this one goes out and a new Kramar comes in or another entity with other equipment. The appropriateness of this equipment, the appropriateness of the ventilation at the time, because the first one dismantled it and took it away, nobody checks it anymore. Now that's what this former commission from your former economic facility has been doing. I agree that when there is duplication - God forbid there is duplication. And this could be agreed by the organisation within the administrative unit that when the application came to the construction department of the usable permit and at the same time to the department of economic services, one commission would go and both procedures would be carried out. It would be a matter of organizing an administrative unit. But it's not that kind of thing, I'd say, principled. And I think that's true in one ideal case. Most of the time, it's not like that. It would still be necessary. I would also like to point out that we are now coming from prevention to curative. That's the most important thing. Now it will not be checked that conditions are met before, but only after that. Once someone has started to work, the competent inspection authorities will verify whether or not he fulfils and, of course, the private authorities will also be sanctioned. That's also a concept. In the final stage, I also partially welcome him. Once again, I would really like to ask for an answer as to how it will be paired with employment or what it will be like to work in black. With regard to these decrees of the law, which speak of documents that prove that conditions are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, you have just become involved in the debate and raised some concerns or views on this issue, as well as the practice you have just experienced. I also fully agree with what Mr Gaspari has already said on the committee itself, and also here today, that a lot of activity - say - in America and in the developed world began - in the garages and so on. Personally, I also argue that free economic initiative must be boundless. But, look, it's a coincidence that there's some kind of activity going on in some garage, or maybe it's just a business space, an office, and we know that today people are also -- let's say -- electrical installations were doing their own work at home. Without every measurement, without everything. There will be an instrument, whatever it is, an electric furnace or whatever; there will be a fire - I don't know what can happen, no one will control it. Someone's gonna start doing this activity, they can get to death, anything. By allowing the use of an operating permit, these are two concepts that should simply not be neglected. And my assessment is that within a year, indeed, anyone could have achieved that, in order to obtain an operating permit for a space that is whatever it is, if it is simpler, it will have it sooner, if it is more complicated perhaps a little later, but only to somehow protect people's health and the protection of nature and all the other good things we have in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Kelemina, if you don't mind, I'll ask you a question. What is the difference between the operating permit and the usable permit for the facility? He's not here. These are the same conditions. In the absence of a specific provision laying down specific conditions, the Commissions which were now identified the same conditions. Same, that's one degree of red tape over. The hospitality is different. This is a special provision where the Commission will still be the same as it has now carried out to assist the administrative unit to review the facilities and facilities and cashiers and also in trade and sanitary conditions. Because the state wants to protect this health and hygiene minimum. Thank you. Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Maybe we're one short replica, not on anyone directly. But look, from this study that I mentioned earlier - I learned the most from not knowing this Slovenian practice, shows that our process is about five times longer than the average in Europe. Something must be wrong. We expect a lot of foreign and domestic investors to come, start from nothing, build a factory on the field, and so on. Remember the case of Sava Kranj and Good Year, what was going on. To this day, the matter has not been resolved. That's not how the investor stays. Of course, there are many other alternative conditions in which, of course, he can do what we and ours can, in good faith prepared, prevent measures. And I have to say that what I've learned from this paper is that absolute protection in those activities that can be dangerous to a man in one way or another. We know them: chemistry, something like that - there is a special permit in any case necessary. And there's an inspection that makes absolutely no sense. And she's gonna have to do this right. By the way, I have looked at cases there, such as Denmark, most of these smaller European countries, there is a procedure to register and start operating in the worst case of two months. With us, the best case for construction and other activities is two years. But you know, these are so great competitive differences that nothing helps tax policy or big promotion of Slovenia, if then on the face of the city this promotion turns into such a spring snake that in the end it does not necessarily lead to the fact that the protection is truly guaranteed, let's say, if you looked at those fires that are happening in Slovenia in the last few months, they were all objects that were probably regularly inspected, but still burned. Which doesn't mean it was a bad inspection, but it was probably a bad setup. I doubt it was just a bad inspection. But what I mean is, it doesn't help if we think, in principle, that we've set things right now, but we're not. Whoever has traveled around the world, including in America, I guarantee you that America is much worse off this salary than Europe. Which does not mean that we have to imitate it, but we must understand that, of course, this somehow reduces this degree of competitiveness that is becoming in this globalisation of the economy around the world - I would say - critical for many activities, including in Slovenia, not just outside. That is why I think it would be so urgent for experts to get to know each other and find out what can be done in this area. But here I think about the operating permit and the other license, but the foreigners said - those who watched it and deal with it, they didn't just do it in Slovenia, they also went to other countries - that they simply didn't understand these complications. That was the answer if you read it. They don't understand why. And that's why I asked the question earlier that it's good to clear this up as soon as possible - this law on some small segment, so we can start cleaning it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please. I'm sorry. Mr. Vizjak
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Mr. Gaspari, I agree with you. And when procedures are doubled - and thank God that they do not double up and that they are reduced and that foreign investors are also allowed to arrive as soon as possible and God protect us! But I'm replicating it in that sense. It is said that you also welcome the possibility of someone coming to Slovenia and getting, say, one chemical plant and it is only later found that few strange people are around because they are - say - now inhaled without knowing, three weeks or four weeks of asbestos or some other dangerous material. For if there are no priors found to meet the conditions which no chemical law in any chemical industry prescribes, then the amendment is not necessary, it means that this can be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Gaspari, then Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	I don't think we got along so well. This is exactly what I said that in many countries of the European Union, and this can be easily empirically identified, have clear provisions for activities that can be environmentally or humanly dangerous [[I don't know how to list them right now.]] . But it's not so terrible, I'll say, do. And there is a specific procedure - the distance from the standard must be. I don't know how this can be done in principle, I mean, I guess how it can be done, and that shouldn't be a problem. We have sectoral legislation and this sector-specific legislation can make this very clear, if necessary, but there is no need to generalise a case like this, on everything else, because it does not require that. That was, I'd say, my comment. About the tax treatment, which I don't know who specifically mentioned, but I would say that. In Europe, the principle that we find difficult to enforce in Europe is increasingly prevalent - taxable activities are whether they are declared or not. If a person is engaged in an activity that brings him income, he is a taxable person. With us as a drunken fence, we hold to the theory that activity must be reported [[not to mention those border activities normally mentioned in such a case]] . Many such activities and inspectors should, in my opinion, be given the tax procedure law, but since this is not yet, I do not think, in the amendments to this law we should be able to obtain this opportunity to act on the basis of the letter of the law in such a case. I know about many countries in Europe that this is possible because it makes sense. But with us, we get caught up in this legal loop: it's not reported. This is said, even though it works, it's not an activity, it's something that doesn't exist - it's impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. I think that the debaters generally agree, and I also agree with them, at the point where we want well-equipped, safe jobs, technological processes that will be environmentally friendly, and working processes in such a way that taxes will also be paid in a way that processes will run in a way that meets the conditions of fire safety and so on. But it is essential to achieve understanding at a point where we think a little differently. In fact, you are unnecessarily trying to burden some of the laws on companies with matter that are not regulated by this law. The point we are talking about regulates the establishment of economic operators, either legal persons or individual entrepreneurs. And what colleague Gaspari also discussed is that the act of setting up economic operators must not be burdened by legislation and restrictions, which must, of course, be regulated by other sectoral laws in a qualitative manner. I therefore believe it is appropriate to fully support government proposals in this area, and I propose that we also support the Government's proposal, both in the law and in the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I certainly agree with Mr Kavčič myself. The fact is, on the basis of the reports of inspection services - different and others we will obtain, those we do not yet have today, in particular - if not otherwise - by the third reading of this law and other opinions we will certainly obtain. The problem is that in its sixth paragraph, the current company law provided for some close supervision of compliance with all the rules in the country or all the rules that a person must comply with if he wants to start an activity. So this marriage somehow covered it up. If we remove this from this law now, other sectoral laws will be individually realized and no longer have some roof protection and will come after our assessment of what we have previously warned through. Therefore, our system is not ready and is not capable of implementing other sectoral laws effectively, as is supposed not to be done by the company law. I understand that, but unfortunately there are no other instruments exposed. If we adopt a decision, if the government or anyone else is committed to be able to implement these other sectoral laws effectively, then I am immediately in favour of adopting as liberal a free economic initiative as possible. As long as we don't have these other things arranged, I'm logically skeptical. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision on two I apologize, in deciding on the amendments to Article 1, I have forgotten to put to the vote a full vote on the Article to the preceding Article, so I ask you politely if we can still do so before we move to a decision on the amendments to Article 2. [[...]] We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 37 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 2, namely, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, with a note that if this amendment is adopted, is an amendment under Article 2, which is the amendment of the Committee on the Economy, which is irrelevant. So it's our first decision on the first amendment. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present. It's a 12-to-21 vote. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the amendment under Article 2 has not been adopted. We're going through Procedural, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's right, there's 40 of us in here, I guess. I don't want anyone to tell us what I know - you know what. Please make sure it's real. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your warning, Mr. Kelemina. Dear colleagues, I ask you to examine the towns of your neighbours in so far as they have no excuse. [[...]] We're picking up the presence! There are 44 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is inconclusive and has not made a valid decision in the case of the first amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia to Article 2. We'll be back in a few seconds, or we'll interrupt the meeting. Please, fellows who are near to join us! We're rediscovering presence! There are 47 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can make a valid decision. We will re-vote the first amendment to Article 2, which is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We're voting. The 47 Members and Members present voted in favour of 10, 29. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. This is how we move to a decision on the second amendment to Article 2, which is the amendment of the Economic Committee. We're voting. 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on my apologies. [[...]] I'm forgetting again. We still have to vote on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. 48 Members and Members present. 42 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 5. It's an amendment to the Economic Committee. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I support the amendment of the Committee on the Economy to Article 5 - in spite of all that the amendment will in some way be amended at second reading, but we know that, in some way, the European Union has also been critical of this provision in the law. However, I think that this provision, which also speaks of the use of the Slovenian language and of course of the national language, is the national community of the Hungarian and Italian national minorities in Slovenia, so important in companies that it is likely that this provision will now delete the last sentence of the amendment to Article 5. However, it may also be necessary to examine how to ensure the use of the Slovenian language for third treatment also between members of the administration or employees who are employed under the contract. I think that here is one of the very sensitive and important issues, in some ways also the protection of the Slovenian language after the entry into the European Union. And I would suggest that, in some way, the government will examine this area until the third hearing and in some way also arrange it with an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision to decide on the amendment of the Committee on the Economy to Article 5. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 2. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full vote on the article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 34 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 6a, of which the government is the proposer. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 34, one against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to the new Article 6a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the four amendments to Article 11, namely, the amendment of which is proposed by the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensions, the LDS Group of Members, the SLS+SKD Group of Members and the Group of the United List of Social Democrats. The same parliamentary groups are also proposing an amendment under 2. Under 3 is the proposed committee and under 4 are the first four members of the group. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 11. We're voting. Again. Thank you very much. We'll be able to re-examine the presence immediately. There are 42 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is unconscionable and cannot make a valid decision, so I am adjourning the meeting in ten minutes. We'll continue at 4:55. I respectfully request that the distinguished colleagues who are in the vicinity join us so that we can continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	After a ten-minute break according to the Rules of Procedure, for the third time we determine the presence, so please kindly insert the cards. [[...]] There are 49 Members and Members present, which means that the State is concluded and can take a valid decision. We are moving on to the vote on the first amendment to Article 11 of which there are four groups of Members. We're voting. 46 Members and Members present. 36 votes in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 11 of the same proposal. We're voting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think there are more than 44 of us in the hall, so please, if we all have cards to check or have cards in order. We're rediscovering presence. There are 46 of us present, which means that we can make a valid decision again. We are moving back to deciding on the second amendment to the 11th Article of the same proposals, the four groups of Members. We're voting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not think that we have done much in this reference, we really have much work to do. I respectfully ask that we accept our work as responsible. I'm shutting down the National Assembly for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 17 and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We rediscover presence and continue to work. There are 56 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can make a valid decision. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 11. The proposals are four groups of Members, which I mentioned earlier. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 41.1 votes against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 11 of which the Committee on the Economy is proposing. We're voting. 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 41, 1 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment to Article 11 which proposes four of the above-mentioned parliamentary groups. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 37.7 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 39, 6 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 11 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 15. Under My apologies - on the amendment, on one amendment to Article 14, of which the Committee on the Economy is the proposer. [[...]] Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full vote on the article. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 46 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 15. Under one is the amendment that we received today on the bench, which is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2, of which the Committee on the Economy is the proposer, is irrelevant. However, it is the same or similar content that we have dealt with in the amendment of the same proposal to Article 2, if I am not mistaken. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 32. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the amendment under number 1 of the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia has not been adopted. This is how we move on to the amendment under number 2, this is the amendment of the Committee on the Economy. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. There were 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 22. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still in the vote on Article 22 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee on the Economy to Article 25. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full vote on the article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 31. Both are proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to briefly repeat what I have already stressed in the general debate at the outset. Our view is that these changes somehow concentrate the power of decision-making in these executive bodies, say the governing bodies of companies, and that the creation of these reserves is even more unjustifiable for own shares. In fact, the management authorities should not have this right. By providing additional reserves for own shares, corporate acquisitions by leading workers will take place. Our assessment is that this is not justified and that there are enough other instruments where profits are distributed or the congregation must be the body that decides how the profits will be distributed and how dividends will also be paid. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment to the first paragraph and that paragraph 228 of Article 228 be deleted. I propose that this doctrine, which we have proposed, be accepted as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Nina Platè, who wishes to explain on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	I would firstly like to point out that this first amendment of the Group of Members has nothing to do with the opening speech that Mr Kelemina gave. It regulates the issue of reserves for own shares. This issue has already been addressed in the GNI and this institution has been professionally mislabelled as a fund for its own shares. This is an instrument that is not left to the discretion of the administration, but to compulsory reserves when a company acquires its own shares. For if a company acquires its own shares, this has the same economic effect as decapitalisation as a reduction in core capital, and because the principle of maintaining capital in the company law, as well as elsewhere in the modern corporate arrangements, essentially provides for very strict rules for the protection of creditors where payments are allowed to be made to shareholders, and only if there is sufficient resources in the profit from which these reserves are made because otherwise such payments cannot be made. This alone is regulated by the Institute of Reserves for Own Shares, something that has already been regulated in the Company Act. As for the second amendment, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Dear colleagues, please allow me to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	In fact, for the red thread of all the remaining amendments, which the gentleman explained in his opening speech, I would like to explain the following. [[...]] Firstly, it has been clear that, through the first hearing, the issue of this arrangement is that, as proposed, the adoption of the annual report should be decided by the Supervisory Board, rather than by the Assembly, as is now the case with the GNI, that this issue was very quickly passed at first reading. That's not true. The government, aware that this is a change compared to the current regime, proposed solutions in the options at first reading. In the first reading, it was confirmed that there was an option, which is now included in the law. On the other hand, as regards the issue or the debate about a regime, a system that is not known elsewhere, and that in our corporate law we are mixing the English American and German system, which is supposed to be two dominant or the only two corporate regimes, I would like to explain the following. Our whole corporate law is governed entirely by the pattern of German law and all these institutions associated with the delimitation of powers between the Assembly and the Supervisory Council - but let me stress that the members of the Supervisory Board are representatives of owners, there is no imaginary administration from somewhere who usurps, because, after all, the administration also appoints owners and can resolve it if they are dissatisfied with its work - so it is a system that is accurately, consistently copied from the German regime in "Ackzengesetz". And there's something else you need to pay attention to. This system will only be expressed in large companies, large companies and medium-sized companies, which must have a supervisory board. However, most limited liability companies are not obliged by law to have and do not have a supervisory board. Of course, these companies will still be decided by the Assembly on the adoption of the annual report. And there's something else that needs to be highlighted. Only by demarcating the adoption of the annual report in essence to the Supervisory Board and only if the Management Board and the Supervisory Board disagree, moving to the Assembly shall it not interfere with the 'proper entitlements of shareholders'. Why? The composition of the annual report is a professional exercise. The composition of the annual report should take into account the accounting rules laid down in the Company Act and set out in more detail in Slovenian accounting standards. Moreover, as far as this freedom, which the law does - not because the applicant would have invented it, but entirely by German example - gives it to the administration in the creation of additional reserves of profits, this is limited because the law very clearly sets out the maximum amount measured in the shares to be allocated for these needs. It is not as much a "salto mortale" change as it was possible to understand from the experts who advised you and who you referred to. Thank you. For this reason, the applicant opposes both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. In fact, you can accept such a solution as the government has proposed. We just want to draw attention to the fact that, with this change of law, when certain rights have been taken to the Assembly as a whole, which it has enjoyed under the current legislation and are transferred to other bodies, we consider that shareholders are the ones who decide to adopt the annual report. They must decide how to make the most of the decisions, and they must make the decisions of the congregation. You are changing these things now, so we have proposed that the amendments remain as it has been so far for the Assembly to decide on the annual report. But if you think otherwise, that's your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 31. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 34. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 31 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 31. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 36. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Article 31 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 33a, whose proposer is the government. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment for the new article has been adopted, explaining that this amendment was linked to the Government's amendment for the new Article 33.b. We are now moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for a new 33.b Article, whose proposer is the government. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 4. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, with an explanation that this amendment was linked to the government's amendment for the new article 33a, which we will now discuss and also decide on. We're moving on to decision-making. I'm sorry. My explanation is wrong. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a new 36.a. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 37, 4 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 37. The drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 26. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 37 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 3. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 37 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 40, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 24. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also moving on to a decision on Article 40 as a whole. We're voting. 56 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 41. The first amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, with a note, if adopted, the amendment under number 2, the proposed amendment of which is four parliamentary groups, is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the matter is very professional as far as the company law itself is concerned, and certainly the content is extremely difficult. So I understand that Members do not go deep into these matters, but vote as ordered. However, according to our assessment, the increase in membership in supervisory councils from 3 to 5 in the current law is too extensive or, according to my assessment of our parliamentary group, the accumulation of certain functions in one person in such a number is not justified. Now, I don't know if there's a shortage of expertise or any other reasons here. Surely, if we followed the line, there could be someone in any political option in a supervisory world. If there is a lack of staff in one political option, which is why you increase the number of members in the supervisory councils, I don't know. In general, I warn you that this is unacceptable for our Group of Members and it is difficult for me to imagine someone who will professionally start performing all these functions in the Supervisory Councils or who will perform all these functions in addition to his responsible service. More and more obligations, increasingly difficult decisions and so on, are being transferred to the supervisory councils. How can someone do this? I don't know. We oppose this, so we also propose an amendment to remain as it has been so far. Maximum three members of the Supervisory Board in these companies, as has been the case so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Plaèezova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Now it's just a simple illustration. Comparative law: the only country that even knows the limit of membership in the supervisory councils is Germany, which limits this number to 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 41. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 28. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment under two. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 4. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 42, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 25. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 25.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on Article 42 as a whole. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 4. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 44, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, with a note that this is only related to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 45. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 24. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 44 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 45, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, with a note that it is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 44. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 15 to 23. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 45 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 3. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 46, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 7. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a new 47.a. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 34 votes against one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 47.b Article, of which the government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 35 votes against one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 55, of which the Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 56 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 63rd article, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 68th Article, of which the government is the proposer. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for a new 68.b Article, of which the Government is proposing, is supported by its mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 69th Article, of which the government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 115.a. of which the government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. There were 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 120.a. of which the government is the proposer. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 122. The proposers are four members of the group, noting that the amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposers. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. I'm sorry, it's not necessary because the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 123. The candidates for the first amendment are four members of the group and the second is the Committee on the Economy, noting that only this is linked to the amendment of the Committee for the new 125.a. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 38, 2 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the second amendment. We're voting. We're moving on to the debate and please. [[...]] Unnecessary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	I think we made a procedural mistake here. The first amendment was adopted and the second amendment was adopted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Unsubstantiated. [[...]] We didn't have to vote. I'm sorry, we just found out and our vote on the meaningless amendment will not be taken into account. We continue to discuss and decide on the amendment to Article 125, of which there are four groups of Members and which are linked to the amendment of the same motions to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 125th Article, of which the Committee on the Economy is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 57 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to 126th Article, of which four members are proposing, to note that it is linked to the amendment of the same motions to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 6. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I find that the article is fully adopted We are moving on to a debate and decision on the last amendment to the 128th Article, of which the Committee on the Economy is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 2. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Anyone else would like to discuss the proposed decision? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	I would like to point out that the applicant has already proposed, in the introductory phrase, that the National Assembly also adopts the conclusion that the third examination of the law is to be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Does anyone want to discuss this proposal from the government? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	The Group of the Social Democratic Party also proposed an additional decision, which somehow defines some work until the third reading. If the implementation of this additional decision is in accordance with this proposal for a decision, I would ask that it clarify what this proposal for an additional decision means. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	If you'll allow me to explain to the Prime Minister, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	In view of the fact that, following the assessment of the applicant objecting to this proposal for an additional decision, the applicant, namely the Government, shall obtain an opinion from its own authorities on the appropriateness of the proposed amendments, in particular as regards the clarifications I have made, that these amendments do not prejudice the determination of the conditions for the exercise of the activity, nor prevent or impede in any way whatsoever the competent inspection services from exercising all the powers they have under all the laws governing the conditions for carrying out the activity, the applicant shall propose for reasons of rationality - since now the law has been adopted in the first reading, for a variety of reasons, for more than one year - to be considered within a period of seven days after the Members receive the text of the third reading law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me. This may be the first time in the next session of the National Assembly. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I believe that the purpose of the additional decision proposed by the SDS Group is to be covered by an additional decision or by a proposal for an additional decision proposed by the Committee on the Economy under number 1. Even more so, the type of discussion that has taken place today on the subject of this law is covered by this conclusion, which states that the government should review the regional laws under the anti-Burocratic Programme and propose simplifying the unnecessary complications contained in individual laws. On the other hand, where necessary, for example, in the area mentioned here, protection at work or in other areas, as well as possible improvements. Therefore, in my view, this Decision does not need to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Let's make one order. If you allow me, the motion for a decision has been made by the government and I respectfully ask that we proceed in an orderly fashion. So, I propose to the National Assembly that we vote first on the government's proposal and then on the proposals for additional decisions. Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	I would only ask for a drop in concentration if the government proposal could be repeated, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Mrs. Nina Platt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	The Government proposes that the national assembly should adopt a decision on the third review of the law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means, within 7 days of the submission of the text to the third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	First in seven days. This Decision will now be voted on by the National Assembly. On the proposal for a decision. We're voting. We've discussed this before. Dear colleagues, since there is no real peace in the hall, we are quickly overlooked. Mr. Kelemina, I apologize. I've turned on the voting machine. We have now voted first on the Government's proposal that the third hearing be carried out under Article 219(2). However, we must now do so, if you will, despite the fact that it is time for us to discuss and decide on the three proposals for additional decisions. These are two additional proposals for conclusions tabled by the Economic Committee and the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. First, I am putting to the debate an additional proposal for a decision proposed by the Committee. The first proposal for an additional decision is set out in the following text: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should act without delay with the preparation of an anti-Burocratic Programme by preparing appropriate grounds for removing all unnecessary obstacles to the start of an activity, both for companies and for independent entrepreneurs, which are laid down in the Commercial Law and in laws laying down specific conditions for the performance of an individual activity. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. First of all, I protest that you didn't let me discuss the government's proposal. Without every explanation, you understand, you are in a hurry to adopt this law right now, and do not let a man discuss the decision of the government. I'd like to know why he's in such a hurry right now with this law that we have to take him to the next meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to the debate on the Committee's decision, however, I would say that this proposal for a decision by the Committee is not wrong or, in fact, it does not oblige anyone, but merely requires that all these preparations and activities continue, etc. By what time, who will control it, how this will be done, who is responsible, it is simply not. This proposal is very loose, according to my assessment, irrespective of both proposals, it would be imperative to obtain an opinion before the third reading of these Republic inspection services. If we just look at one inspection report, namely the inspection services for the environment and space in 1999 - I hope that you have read it all and you have seen what things they write or how they warn constructively about all the shortcomings of the system as such and also say that these tasks, which are now being imposed by the amendment of the company law, will not be part of the inspection services. They're not going to be a part of them, and they're not going to be able to do that, so we should get their opinion. In the final stage, it is not misleading for the National Assembly, but it would be appropriate for Members to take note of these findings of the inspection services as to how this implementation of the company law will actually continue to work. I do not think that this proposal for a decision is too much and that the whole report or the opinion of the inspection services can be obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Kelemina. Before that, there was a debate on a proposal for a government decision. Mag. The visionary was discussing it. You have now volunteered for the debate on Article 1, and you have explained your proposal, which is yet to come, I apologize, but let us go in order so that we do not interfere. Does anyone else want to discuss the proposal for an additional decision in the text I have read? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the first additional decision of the Committee on the Economy. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the first additional decision of the Committee has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on a second proposal for an additional decision, which is also proposed by the Committee, namely: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the comments and proposals of amendments to the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, the second treatment prepared by Delčar and, on the basis of them, to prepare and submit an appropriate proposal for legislation, where appropriate. Does anyone want to discuss this additional proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed additional decision of the Committee under number 2 has been adopted. We are also moving on to a discussion and decision on the additional decision proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to obtain an opinion from all State inspection services on the appropriateness of the proposed amendments to Article 4 and 75 of the Act on Economic Companies and the possible negative consequences of these changes until the adoption of the Act on Economic Companies in the third reading." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal for an additional decision? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for an additional decision aims to ensure that, in fact, when we move from the preventive and prior authorisation system to carry out certain activities into the curative system, this means that the inspections will monitor this [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] President, I'd like to ask you not to listen to me either. [[...]] I have to protest. You didn't listen to me either, except for anyone else, and I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Really, the concentration's down. Dear colleagues, just a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	It's ignorance, not concentration. My wish is only because, with these amendments to the company law, we are moving a lot of work, and we are also interfering with the operational work of inspection services, whether or not the government representative wants to stress it, because today they control only these decisions under Article 4 of the company law, and this is a market inspection. We therefore propose that we get an opinion on these expert bodies on what this means. I don't think that this has anything to do with the first decision that says that unnecessary things are over, which I very much welcome, and I will always welcome. This is not about certain unnecessary matters. I think it would be right for Members to make it easier for us to decide in the third reading how and what to get the opinion of the state inspection services involved. In particular, it confirms the position of this decision that it has sent us certain opinions and is not exactly what the government advocates. I would therefore ask that, in doing so, we also clarify matters from a political point of view, but entirely from a substantive point of view, with statements and opinions from experts in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision: we are voting on the proposed additional decision of the Group of Members, as I presented it earlier. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 28. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has not been adopted. At the time we voted on the draft decision tabled by the Government, I forgot to announce the result, namely: 56 Members and Members were present, 21 votes against 2. I declare that the proposed decision by the government representative has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The National Assembly will continue its work tomorrow at 10 a.m., starting at 4 p.m., we will consider the proposal for a law on public agencies, the first hearing, and in order to proceed. The proposal for the Veterinary Act will begin in the afternoon session of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for your attention and good night!
