ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. Good morning, good morning! We begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Milan Kopushar, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Marko Diaci, Victory Jelinčič for the afternoon part, Yuri Malovrov from 11.45 to 12.30, Igor Štemberger for the afternoon part, Alojz Sok from 3 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. We're picking up the presence, please, of the "quorum" press. I note that there are 52 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. Before moving to the official part of the meeting, allow me to inform you that yesterday, this was the 18th of December, Member Roman Jakič from the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Lord Russell Johnston, to thank you for all the thanks and good work done, as well as for leading the PSF delegation to Macedonia and Kosovo, he received a special recognition from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and thus brought recognition to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] The medal is on display, please, there at Mr. Jakic's. [[...]] Today's continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 2nd item of the agenda - amendments to the report on companies, companies or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The assembly will then move on to the third item - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance; and then in order of order. So we're at 2. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity and I ask the rapporteur of the Commission if he wants the word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[It doesn't look like it.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I do not have written applications, so I will limit any further discussion to 5 minutes. Does anyone want a word from the Members and Members? I don't see any interest in the debate. I am closing the debate and moving on to a debate on the decision. The mother's working body proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision. Let me read it. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to a prohibition of operations with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Who wants a word? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote on the read decision. Let's vote, please! I note that out of 61 voters there are 56 Members and Members. No one was against it. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also conclude this agenda item We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION AND INVIDENCE LEGISLATION LAW, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm moving to first reading. On this occasion, I welcome and ask the representative or State Secretary, Mrs Belopavlovich, of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, if she wishes to speak. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act entered into force on 1 January 2000. The law carried out a comprehensive pension reform. Following the entry into force of the law, some problems have been raised in practice, but other issues have also been raised, particularly technical issues, which have led to difficulties in practice due to open or inaccuracies of individual provisions. The text of the law has been reprinted twice. On the occasion of the last novel, the National Assembly adopted a decision imposing on the Government to prepare an analysis of the implementation of the law so far. On 7 June, the Government forwarded the analysis to the National Assembly after its consideration and adoption. However, it was examined by the Home Committee of the National Assembly on 9.10.2001. Following the examination of the analysis, the Committee ordered the applicant, the government, on the basis of a prepared analysis, to draw up a comprehensive proposal for amendments and to supplement the law as soon as possible and to submit it to the National Assembly. This bill is in such a form today before you If I mention only the most important reasons for the change, the elimination of some of the uncertainties and problems raised by law-makers is, on the one hand, an institution for pension and disability insurance as an operator in the field of compulsory insurance, on the other hand, a pension company, an insurance undertaking, as operators in the field of voluntary supplementary insurance. The second reason is the initiatives given by individuals before the Constitutional Court, the following initiatives put forward by some Members in the form of amendments to the law, Mr Rokavec in relation to Articles 18 and 156 and Mr Kebrič in relation to Article 150 of the Law. Coordination with some other later adopted laws is also an important reason. I must point out that the principles on which the compulsory pension and disability insurance system and compulsory voluntary supplementary insurance are based do not change with the novelty. Those solutions are proposed, which have already been highlighted in the above-mentioned analysis. The removal of these in our view means a shift towards greater precision or clarity of certain provisions, which follows in particular the principle of legality, as legal standards must be designed to allow for a clear legal interpretation, especially in a system in which individuals' rights are largely decided. If I quickly summarise some essential changes, they relate mainly to correcting the situation of self-employed persons with regard to the possibility of exemption from insurance, establishing the basis for payment of contributions, deciding on write-offs, deferrals or periodic repayments. The amendments also entail the suspension of the application of the provisions on the reduction of pensions of pensioners who receive income before the full age and the provisions on disability insurance. A novelty in the coordination of pensions where the provisions of Article 150 are amended and supplemented. It means maintaining an existing principle whereby pensions are aligned in the future with wage movements per employee in the country, while at the same time complementing two new guardians. Their realisation is intended to ensure the movement of pensions within wage limits and in the event of higher price increases for living needs, as well as the preservation of their real value. In the area of supplementary insurance, the changes relate mainly to a more transparent separation between collective and individual supplementary insurance, a clearer definition of tax reliefs, as well as the changes needed to comply with subsequent laws. We expect that these changes will enable the rapid development of voluntary additional insurance. Given that it is a matter of less difficult amendments to the law and in view of the decision of the National Assembly which ordered the Government to draw up a draft law on the basis of an analysis as soon as possible, we propose that the National Assembly should support the amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Brenčič, to present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I warmly welcome all my fellow Members and representatives of the government! Well, the mother labour force, this is the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, discussed the draft law below its 14th regular session and also prepared it for the plenary decision that is today. To begin with, the matter before this law has been dealt with by the Committee in the examination of the analysis made by the proposer of this law on the implementation of the law on pension and disability insurance. In this sense, the matter brought by law was also expected and, in this regard, the Committee's debate was extremely constructive and also sought to clarify or take into account all those good substantive proposals that came to the Committee by the public concerned and the institutions directly concerned with the implementation of the law. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the secretariat, given that the Government's previous representative, the State Secretary has explained to you the draft law, as has been submitted to the members and members of the Committee. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in its opinion, notes that the proposal for a law is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it contains all the elements to be included in any legislative proposal submitted to the legislative procedure. With regard to the proposed procedure, the Secretariat considers that citing the reasons set out in the first and third indents of paragraph 204.a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may be only of a formal nature. However, the problem is of a nature that should be resolved only by the proposed changes and amendments to the law. In particular, the scope and complexity of the legal matter could be classified as cited reasons. However, from the introduction and explanation of the bill, it is possible to understand that the proposal for a law follows certain substantive proceedings already carried out in the framework of the national assembly and is also expected or desired by the proposer. From a constitutional point of view, the Secretariat has no explicit comments. However, from a legal and technical point of view, it is necessary to clarify certain provisions of Articles 18, 28, 41, 74, 75 and 76 more precisely. In the debate, some members of the Committee discussed the proposed procedure in a controversial way. This one's short. In the substantive debate, however, they highlighted the way in which pensions are coordinated, the issue of the insurance bases of self-employed persons, the cessation of activities and the reintegration into the pension system. Most members agreed that it was essential to introduce editorial corrections to certain provisions of the basic law and to bring the individual provisions of the law on pension and disability insurance into line with other sectoral laws. Some discussers also raised the issue of conflict of interest between the employer and the manager, the question of the application of insurance principles, the issue of the work of pension funds, which some say do not belong to the law on pension and disability insurance. It was also pointed out that the status of the mutual trust fund should be resolved or stabilised as soon as possible. It was reiterated, however, that the introduction of the mandatory second pillar of the investment insurance system would need to be introduced into the law as soon as possible. Despite the concerns expressed and some of the Committee's substantive comments, the proposal for a procedure was supported by eight votes in favour and four against. After a long and constructive discussion, the Committee also adopted amendments to Article 39, Article 41, Article 49, Article 65, Article 73, and as received in the supplementary material to the report of the Committee, including Articles 51 and 52. The Committee also proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance shall be considered and adopted together with the amendments of the Committee following a reduced procedure." On the basis of a constructive substantive debate, the Committee also proposed two additional decisions for adoption by the National Assembly, namely: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within three months of the adoption of this Act, that, on the basis of the joint approach of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, and on the basis of the law on pensionable disability insurance and the law on the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance, the finalisation of the insurance of craftsmen's funds based on sound principles, thus allowing the existence and establishment of the long-term and stable functioning of the Fund." Second additional decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requests the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a report within three months on the situation of women in supplementary voluntary pension insurance according to the amount of the pension applied for in this title." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the secretariat for legislation? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr. Tiny. Mr Petty Officer on behalf of New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u6	Nice greeting and a nice day for all present, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, media representatives. Exactly one year ago, we considered amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance. We're dealing with him again this time. The year has passed since it was adopted when the government coalition has adopted a scandalous system of wage coordination. It took us a year or, you know, a year to figure out where you've been. At the time of the adoption of this law, which, of course, we opposed, we told him what would happen. Our predictions were correct. First of all, I must point out that we are against the adoption of legislation after a reduced procedure. It was time for a normal marriage. You have also received timely, here we speak to the government, information about what is happening with the payment of pensions, what is happening with the implementation of certain provisions that are unclear. The secretariat made it clear: "The proposal for matter is not of such a nature, given the scope and complexity that it is possible to deal with it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, following a reduced procedure." Infringement, the government has therefore proposed something that it presupposes to be wrong. Of course, if we were to reject this proposal, we would object: 'You are against the regulation of what was adopted last year'. Those scarves. The previous novel was therefore adopted by a government ovation. After a long time, she found out what had happened. You can read the magnetograms that we've been predicting. The government is now explaining, some government representatives explain that they have wrongly calculated their institutions in the forecasts. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition! If these institutes are not doing well, replace the directors. For in the beginning you replaced all the directors to serve you well. Apparently, they don't serve you well. They're not trustworthy. We'd have listened to our predictions. Even so, the seriousness and expertise of someone’s ability to predict events is demonstrated. And we did. Between October 2000 and October 2001, wages grew by 12.5% on average. The average age pension growth is 6.7%. The result's on the palm of your hand. If we didn't voluntarily raise pensions in September, instead of 2.4%, as would follow from the law, by 7.2%, the disaster would be even greater. This would mean an additional 1.1% reduction. This would mean a total of almost 7% deviation from wage growth. The law on pension and disability insurance clearly states that pensions are aligned with wage increases. So this change was contradictory to the other provisions of the pension law. In fact, the biggest pension reform was carried out this year. In this agreement, intergenerational and social, it was agreed that pensions would fall on average by 0.5% each year in the next 25 years. So in 25 years, the base is expected to fall by 12.5%. In a year, so this year, such a result has been achieved. It was the most radical pension reform. In fact, by introducing this law and amending these provisions, you have in fact acknowledged this error and admitted something else that you do not well predict that you do not deserve to rule. The amendments made by this law can be divided into additions to those provisions that are unclear and difficult to implement and therefore need to be supplemented. With these additions - we have also tabled or tabled two or three comments in order for operators to have a clear interpretation and to be able to implement these laws and rights. By supplementing and modifying the system of reconciliation of pensions, as you have now proposed, we do not agree. It's just a bunch of complex formulas, these are non-relationship equations, in mathematics said, these are not dependent equations. We don't agree with that. With regard to the change in insurance bases, what they have also proposed in the Chamber of Commerce, we generally support and agree with these changes, including with regard to the exemption from insurance, the withdrawal from insurance. The proposal of this law also supports those changes that are necessary for the adoption of other laws. In this case, I refer to the law on parental protection and family benefits. This needs to be changed and this needs to be changed in a fast or short-term manner. We also propose to exempt those who perform domestic or artificial craftsmanship, as well as those co-owners, either pensioners or others, because they do not include them here. There they should be taxed under the Value Added Tax Act or other financial regulations, not pushed into the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It is likely that fishermen, especially those who are still working dry goods, could be given the opportunity to do so without compulsory inclusion in insurance. If Empress Maria Teresa had allowed them to trade freely over the Austro-Hungarian territory, I don't know, 200 years ago, we could have given them something like this. I wonder, of course, at the end of everything that journalists will also write about this event, whether they will just take the applause as they did last year - again a new victory - whether they will dig into the numbers what it really means and write such a report as it really is. I don't think you have to do what I tell you, but read the statistics and you'll understand. We will support the law in New Slovenia if our amendments are accepted. If that doesn't happen, then we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Vnučec, a youth party, has the floor. Please. Then Mr Kebric is on behalf of DeSUS and then Mr Brenčič on behalf of Not yet, Mr Kebric. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The reform of the pension system is still one of the main problems, and unfortunately, Slovenia is no exception. Discussions on a new intergenerational agreement on a future system of material and social security for old age have not yet been completed and will not be so soon. The pension system, such as it is, will not hold up and we are not quite sure that everyone in Slovenia is aware of it. The law before us today is more than just a technical law to remedy the shortcomings of the reformed pension system so far, and it also contains urgent compliance with other laws in this area. Everything is fine and right here, and a reduced procedure is also warranted for these matters. We support these changes in the proposal in the Young Slovenia Party. In the eyes, however, there will be a provision of 150.b., which regulates the subject where reform has lost its momentum and remained in the middle. We are talking about a way of harmonising the level of pensions and maintaining the real value of pensions. While the proposed provisions do not mean much, they give the wrong signal that pensioners will not share the fate of the employees and that the matter is concluded. In the youth party, we believe that it is necessary to continue where the reform has remained. The goal is the same, then and now, and in the future it must remain the same. The aim is to provide a pension and disability system that will ensure socially acceptable and effective economic security for all generations of age. Emphasis is on all generations, including young and middle-aged generations, which will be the most affected and affected by reform. The age limit is increasing, the expected pensions will be lower than today for the same working period. However, there is a need to set limits somewhere, but there is no need to move from the worst to the worse. The growth of living costs and the growth of average wages should be an essential component of the Article governing the coordination of pensions, but not in this combination in today's proposal. In the view of the youth party, at least the combination of these two elements would have been the right way under the 1998 proposal, but unfortunately the proposal was not adopted at that time. Yesterday, a representative of the law's proponents said that they were doing nothing essential about the coordination of pensions, to clarify the methodology of coordination as mandated by the Constitutional Court. So it's a procedural matter. However, the Constitutional Court has said nothing and cannot speak of the content and mode of coordination that is considered inappropriate and necessary by the youth party. We believe that the articles on the coordination of pensions in the proposal are only the result of a poorly written law, not the decision of the Constitutional Court. We are also confident that in the near future we will radically reshape this article and make sure that the pension system comes to life. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to provide for the lowest pensions that do not allow for decent survival. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are in favour of increasing the lowest pensions in order to make this possible, but we will also have to take care of those who work today and the economy in which they work, otherwise there will not be much left of the pension system. We support this law because we do not want any evidence that we are responsible for the delay and inability to implement the applicable law because of the time constraints that the applicant has caused on purpose or purpose. However, we need a better and more fair law on pension and disability insurance for all generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an important change in the pension-disability law. Several articles should be amended after this proposal. In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have taken a thorough look not only at changes, but above all at the necessary changes. We have statistics and study, a study commitment, from liberation onward and even before liberation. So we set ourselves up for a complete review throughout the period and found that pensions, except that I'm always honest and honest and I'm telling the truth, except in 1999, when the average of pensions was overpaying and otherwise in every year, in the previous year and now, this year, pensions were lagging behind. I believe that with this formula, by amending this law we have been able to reconcile pensions in proportion to wage developments. Therefore, the proposal is essential: For the first time that pensions are coordinated in February and that a longer period is compared, it shall be at least 12 months or one year. If we are aware of the importance of the delay of two months, it is said that any coordination that would have been first in January would not correspond to the average of the annual salaries that have elapsed, since the December wages are only known in February. It is urgent, and it has been established and assured - at least I hope that, colleagues and colleagues, you will vote in favour of this law - that in 150th and 150th a and b of Article, those basic principles of pension coordination will be ensured in order to coordinate, as I said, with the average wage movement. This wage movement is very dynamic in Slovenia, so we wanted and wanted to, and it is also stated in the law that pensions must be coordinated twice a year. When this second coordination depends, of course, on the growth of wages, or up to and including July, it could then be harmonisation in September, but if the wage movement, on average, does not increase at that time, but perhaps cumulatively only in August or September, it would also be possible to align with this delay I have been talking about for two months. The other thing is that we have managed to provide compulsory pension insurance, which is a system of satisfactory means, while the second pillar, as we call it, is an investment system and from this investment system will not have anything to do with today's generation of pensioners or those who will retire in the coming years. We therefore oppose anything else being taken as a criterion for the coordination of pensions, such as the proposal, such as inflation. People are talking about inflation, and I attach myself to this opinion, inflation is not a criterion. If a helicopter is cheap for 10% of bread, milk, meat and so forth, it is not recognized by the citizens as an award, it is said to reduce inflation. For citizens, and especially for pensioners, the most important thing is the movement of living costs. Therefore, this law also provides for any minimum movement, any minimum wage movement, and guarantees that they cannot actually fall, that they must remain at least realistic in such an increase as is necessary to comply with inflation, and this is also recorded. I believe that with statistics for years ago, as I have said, I can prove to you that it is necessary for this law to be adopted as soon as possible this year, and I hope that this will happen today. For otherwise it means that those who vote or vote and reject this law are against the increase of pensions and will bear the full responsibility that the second year of pensions will also be lag behind as they have been lagging behind this year. We've kept an intergenerational agreement. This is the basis that the employees now, but not only the employees, but the correct term is now the insured who are paying pension-disability insurance, this is the number that is fortunately growing again in us, and the ratio between pensioners and employees has been quite stable for the past four years, as the inflow of pensioners, roundly speaking, is only one percent on average and there is no longer what has happened and what has happened here and there, wants to happen with early retirement, which would increase the number abnormally, pensioners and insurers to stagger. Therefore, I ask you very much and I appeal to you, my dear colleagues and colleagues, to vote in favour of this law so that the next year certain things will not only be transparent, even in the right sense, and that we will correct with these corrections that have been submitted, all that has not been clearly defined in the law so far, but in particular in terms of 150. and 150.a and b., the harmonisation of pensions, so that they will no longer be lagging behind. I conclude that pensioners, pensioners have always pointed out that they want to share the fate of employees, their sons, their daughters, their grandchildren, etc. and that there is no need or requirement for pensions to be overturned, but that they should not be lagging behind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič, SLS + SKD has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, in our parliamentary group, it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are united that what this law brings is necessary and necessary. Far from this novel being dependent on some scandalous or frivolous decision last December. We claim this decision to be entirely responsible that it has been done in accordance with the responsible conduct of anyone who knows the situation in which we are as a society and knows the situation in which the state budget, which is obliged by law to cover all that which is in the pension allowance deficit to ensure the rights that are achieved and settled. In this context, we also note that what this proposal brings is a reduced procedure, only what can be adopted at this time even after a reduced procedure. These are the changes that we have found in some way at the beginning when the basic law on pension and disability insurance was established that it will be necessary to make them. When we adopted the basic law on the basis of a strategy or, I would say, a reform project of the pension system, we can see that as a society we were not fully mature enough to adopt the law in the content we set out in the reform project. This is precisely why today there are also some shortcomings that need to be made in order to effectively implement or, I would say, concrete possibilities for applying the existing law. I can also say that, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the novel before us eliminates what individuals have already wanted with individual amendments to this law, which have also benefited from a slightly more comprehensive amendment of the law being withdrawn, and that this bill is also a result of a number of attempts before the Constitutional Court to change and correct certain matters. That's why we support him as such. However, I would like to point out in particular two things that we may not have resolved in this proposal at least in principle, but also in the context of a reduced procedure and content, the purpose of this proposal can be done. This is mainly the issue of the assessment of insurance bases for self-employed persons, based on Article 209 of the Basic Law. With this requirement, a group of Members had already come forward with a proposal for a law to remedy this matter, but then this law had withdrawn, as I said before, in favour of a more comprehensive approach addressed by this novel. I believe that, when we were passing the law on the basis of the pension reform project, this area was somewhat overly covered. As a result, the dosage base is so high for self-employed, craftsmen, that a process which is not good for this country is subsequently established; that the status changes, changes, changes are made to societies. From an independent entrepreneur to a company and on this basis also into an insurance system from a working relationship. As a result, the inflow to the state budget or to the pension fund will have a negative sign sooner or later. I believe that this topic will have to be dealt with in the context of the amendment tabled by our Group of Members, which is a kind of relatively good compromise between what some would like and what we expect in terms of the influx into the pension register, what we can realistically achieve. Then we would stop in the parliamentary group with the next one. We committed ourselves to the basic law, when the law also carried out matters that had to be done from the point of view of the proper system, I would say from hand to mouth, from time to time. Especially in terms of the status and existence of the mutual trust fund of craftsmen. I know that it is impossible to resolve this matter in all its contents today in this novel because it is so substantive that, after all, if we define ourselves in accordance with the rules of procedure for the procedure, it is likely that it will require a wider and different treatment than the reduced procedure now allows, but this will have to be resolved. Therefore, it is only good that we all consciously take an additional decision, which will then somehow be asked by the bill-maker to approach as soon as possible the recovery of the existing situation that is present in the mutual fund of craftsmen. As we say, we support the novel. Both the procedure and the content itself. However, we know that much more will be needed in the area of the evidence system, which is now incorporated into the entire substance of the law, in the future, how to regulate such voluntary additional insurance, or with a special law, or also to find all the possibilities for voluntary additional insurance to receive as soon as possible into the content as we set out at the beginning of the project of the re-establishment of the pension system in order to introduce the mandatory investment pillar of the second pillar. The full dilemma that we are now solving in some way in this law, in the chapter of voluntary supplementary insurance, would fall away and would in fact stabilise the pension treasury system in the long term and also allow a relatively large investment stake for the economy to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Montenegro, a united list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well-welcome government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Joint List Group, we will support the amendment and supplementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, although we are aware that the amendment of one of the basic laws governing the social rights of a large number of people is problematic after a reduced procedure. We are convinced that the changes proposed in the law are such that they need to be adopted before the beginning of 2002 so that the law can be implemented better and for the benefit of active insurers and pensioners. The two-year implementation of the law on pension and disability insurance has shown that the reform that the government has been preparing for a long time has been lacking in certain segments. That is why we have a law before us today that changes a number of articles of the current law on pension and disability insurance, and in the debate it has been shown that some other solutions in the pension law should be thoroughly examined within a certain period of time. This is mainly about re-evaluation of some of the rights entered into the law by coalition trades in the previous term. Surely for the issue of the operation of the pension and disability fund, the issue of state pension, gender equality, the payment of contributions and their write-off, the operation of the second pension pillar and so on. Nevertheless, it seems to us that the proposed law contains the most urgent necessary amendments and additions that are, of course, needed to be adopted in order to remedy such a common problem in implementing the current law in practice. That is why we have also supported the reduced procedure for the adoption of this law, which we also agree with, and also agree with the affected groups of citizens and citizens. Members of the United Nations Social Democrats consider it most important to remove the uncertainties that have been established in the practice of valorising pensions. The proposed solution to the amendments to Article 150 of the Act, which also eliminates the possibility of the taxation of pensions outside the law by government acts and by the acts of the pension and disability insurance authorities being provided for outside the law. The proposal of Article 150 is clear and we hope that the issue of the valorisation of pensions will be resolved for a longer period and not temporarily, rather than until now. It also seems important for us to have those provisions that address the uncertainties surrounding the payment of contributions and the provisions governing the latest changes to the operation of voluntary supplementary insurance funds. In doing so, we will also support the joint amendment of the coalition parties to Article 301 and to Article 350. Of course, it is important to stress, and I would like to stress in particular, and it is good to know that the United List of Social Democrats in the past mandate, when the law was discussed and a broad debate was under way, has just pointed out with all its discussions on these articles, which are now changing and supplementing. Let me get this straight. In the Joint List Group, we are aware that the law on pension and disability insurance will still have to be addressed in the future and more appropriate solutions will be found for some of the outstanding issues. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed law, although it does not offer all the answers that are raised in the debates and does not address all the problems that the affected population groups are alerting us to, because we believe that the proposed changes are really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Cukjat, Social Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I would like to touch on two points, somehow central to this law, namely the coordination of pensions. I am pleased, and our Group of Members is pleased to note, after one year, the error of previous acceptance or the discovery of America, which has already been discovered and which we have already pointed out to the opposition parties a year ago. This is a partial correction of this error, of course by delaying and with a lot of discomfort and problems that were needlessly triggered. The second issue worth our attention in this law is, of course, Article 209 and Article 28 respectively, the attitude towards self-employed persons and farmers. Indeed, we had already pointed out a mistake and discriminatory attitude towards independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers. According to this current logic, where the extension is also proposed, the independent entrepreneur pays a social contribution of 38% of the total revenue, from the profit involved in the private person’s net salary and actual profit; in the case of a legal person, the profit is something that has already been deducted from all the gross wages and, of course, all the benefits. And we know what the profit is for. Profit is intended for new investments, expansion of activities, and therefore for the investments that Slovenia so bloodyly needs. The craftsman has to pay contributions and then all income and benefits from this profit, which would, in some ways, be earmarked for investment and expansion under good national policy. We think it's a very unfair attitude towards all of this. The Committee has raised concerns about this. A proposal was submitted which was in line with the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, where the Chamber of Commerce clearly pointed out that in the current situations the craftsmen paid 100% or 150% more than the revenues than in the case of a registered work organisation. And of course, there was no hearing. We already have a proposal or an amendment from the human party. Our Group supports it because we believe that this is the only way to get rid of it, at least partially corrects the mistake we are facing. The error also shows that, in this year's year, 3,000 craftsmen have returned the status of independent entrepreneurs and have already declared the status of a working organisation. If this goes on, of course, this trend will continue. And if the country is too devoured, it doesn't get what it wants, it doesn't get anything from that address, nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u17	Can I please have the debate club there on the left to step out of the hall? Excuse me, Mr. Tuckyat. Could you please be a little quiet there, please? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u18	Well, not just that. We are concerned about the stepfather's attitude towards entrepreneurship, the craftsmanship we know to be a country of many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. I would like to point out that if we do not change this, we will probably be back in one year before the same situation as we are today, and we will again correct the big mistake with a one-year delay. A mistake that can't just be solved overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please. Liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The Liberal Democracy Group will support the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance. The analysis of the implementation of the Disability and Pension Insurance Act has shown that changes to the law are necessary, and we believe that these are not the last changes that will be necessary, although we believe that this amendment eliminates some of the major uncertainties and shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the Act. The need for change is necessary both in the compulsory insurance segment and in the voluntary supplementary insurance segment, and we consider that the applicant has also duly taken into account most of the warnings from the public concerned, both the pension and disability insurance institution, the providers of voluntary supplementary insurance and also various associations, and that, of course, the supplements also address some of the uncertainties that have caused them, or are still pending before the Constitutional Court. With regard to the revised way in which pensions are coordinated, it is our view that the principle of keeping pensions in line with the average wage movement must be maintained, and we also accept what Article 50.b introduces - that is, no less than the price of living needs has been achieved. In this way, we believe that the real value of pensions, including in the so-called emergency situation, must and will be maintained, and in this way, in some sense, it will introduce a costly supplement that will prevent pensions from lagging behind to increase the cost of living. We hope, of course, that the formula that is now incorporated into the amendment of the law will be appropriate and will protect enough that this new way will become and remain a longer-term and more lasting way and will not need to be changed again every year due to certain global or current economic developments. In short, we hope that this formula is appropriate and means a long-term solution. With regard to the amendments to the law mentioned above, we are aware that there are two problems remaining halfway, namely the problem and rehabilitation of the old insurance of the craftsmen's fund. The position of our Group is that these materials should not yet be incorporated into legislative changes, but we have been proposing an additional decision to be adopted in this regard by the National Assembly and by which the Government should see to it that the problem is resolved within three months of the adoption of amendments to this Act. We believe that the path is sufficient and that these changes should take place in due course, or this rehabilitation, which may pose major problems for craftsmen and their pensions. We also very carefully reviewed the warnings that came from the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia about discriminatory supplementary pension insurance for women. Just as we have managed to obtain certain analyses and data ourselves, we feel that this warning does not have its real basis and weight. However, we believe that any doubt is needed, because discrimination is being discussed, in this regard contradicts and, in this regard, we have also proposed to adopt an additional decision by the National Assembly, which imposes an additional decision on the Government, to examine and analyse, within a period of three months, this warning and, of course, to the extent that it would prove to be of any importance in this analysis, changes to the law in this direction would also be necessary. This warning came after our assessment a little too late, however, because it requires a thorough review of the data and analyses. Of course, we will keep a close eye on him if we find that there are problems in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written applications for the debate, so I will limit any further individual debate to five minutes. Who wants a word? Members and Members do not want a word, so I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to second reading, that is to decide on individual articles of the law. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on that proposal, please. 43 Members and Members are present, so we are not concluding. Apparently, there are several Members and Members of Parliament in the Chamber, so we repeat the vote another time. Let's vote, please. There's about 60 of us in the hall, so I'm going to allow myself again -- I know this is procedurally problematic, but I don't know what else is going on, because there are about 60 of us in the hall. [[...]] Does anyone object to us voting again? Who's opposed, please? One opposes. All right, ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u22	We're moving on. We are moving to a vote on the procedural decision previously read. That'll be the third time. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 49 votes in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments - this is the basic text we have, with the date 19.12.2001 and the right number three above. Then we got three more papers today, amendments. Of course, we will now try to make this debate about the amendments in this more transparent way. We'll start with an amendment to Article 6 - that's in if I can just say "Mag." Janez Drobnic has tabled amendments to the bill on six sides. Well, here we have first of all Article 6, the amendment to Article 6. Mag. I can't see the little thing in the hall right now. I am opening the debate on this article and, of course, the amendment. Who wants a word? Excuse me, Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u23	So, I must say that we do not support this amendment for the reason that we actually want, not only the data-based foreign workers who are insured, to include, the possibility of exemption from insurance, but also the others in the event that these things are based on international contracts. What is said in the explanatory statement is that it also covers citizens or foreigners who are employed by our employer, we are covered in Article 13 and must be insured, except in exceptional cases. By thinking that the matter has been consistently carried out and we do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u24	Who wants another word, please? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 6 and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 6. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 15 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Article 6 is adopted. We're at the 11th. This article - I mean, the amendment to Article 11 - has also been drafted by the Mag. Janez Petty Officer. I open the debate to Article 11, to the amendment and to the article as a whole. Who wants a word? Government, Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u25	I must say that we have deliberately changed the dictates of the law so far in article 11 by essentially binding ourselves on the application of the permanent residence of the person who gains the right to a state pension. The fact is that only staying when we become a member of the European Union is an equalisation of residence either in Slovenia or in any Member State of the European Union. This means that virtually under these conditions every foreigner who comes to Slovenia, provided that he has resided anywhere else, can gain the right to a state pension - and in this way they would not want to extend it. However, if it is a registered permanent residence, what we are changing, then, of course, let us narrow it down to those citizens for whom we practically wanted it, avoiding the dictatorship of citizenship.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 11 and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 11. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 11 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on Article 11. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 51 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] The Article has been adopted. We are at Article 15, the proposer is mag. Janez Petty Officer. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u27	I must say that we are opposed to this amendment, but it practically means exactly the same as what we have proposed. So that we do not define ourselves here, it is possible to accept such an amendment, so that there will be no substantive difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 15. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 24 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And then there's the 15th whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 15 has been adopted. At the age of 18, we first have an amendment of mags. Janez Drobnič, as you can see, so that article 18 is entirely replaced by a new text, and then we have an amendment by Mr Petr Levič, which is to delete paragraph 150.b. So we're gonna separate things right. We will first open the debate on the two amendments to Article 18, namely the amendment proposed by Mr Drobnic and Mr Levič. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! When I heard presentations from representatives of the parliamentary groups earlier, I liked the fact that everyone in turn acknowledged that last year, somewhere around this time, an amendment to the law on pensions, a pension law that did not bring a solution that was not good and needed to be amended somehow this year. Since we are doing this again after a reduced procedure, following an extremely rapid procedure, the fastest that this National Assembly knows, I am sure that the one we are adopting today will not be the one that will, of course, need to be changed again. I only hope that it will not become a habit for this national assembly to change just before each Christmas, I would say, one of the most pressing issues is the issue of pension legislation. With regard to the amendment to this article, I had hoped that Mr Petty Officer would be here and would explain this amendment on his own, but I do not know how he is not. However, I would like to say that what is now enshrined in the law as paragraphs 150a and 150b, I personally find this record extremely unclear. So, I am sure that this Parliament, and in particular the proposer, in this case the government, should present such a text which, once adopted, the pensioners can understand and understand from the law what it actually brings them. The wording in 150.a and 150.b. is in fact so complicated, so wrapped up that - I don't know, I've already read it about five times, but I still don't understand it; maybe I understand these things more slowly, but I don't understand why it has to be so wrapped up and complicated. And it was this amendment that the Magi had put in. A trifle, I would say, sums up what you have proposed, but it is written quite simply and from this amendment any pensioner can calculate what the reconciliation of pensions will actually be, and what it can expect from this harmonisation. But what you wrote down, that's the calculation, first for the year he lives in, then you compare one year back, then you divide by 20, and then you multiply by some 50% difference, and so on. So, I don't know if it's really necessary or if it's meant for that river that says when you want it to change nothing, it does not change anything. The last sentence of article 150.b also brings this, which was discussed mainly by young people who are also concerned about this issue, and it is right to be interested in this, because they will be most tended to the question that those who receive large pensions will receive a lot in the calculation, those who receive small pensions will receive little in the calculation. We just discussed this last year. By coordinating these pensions, however, let us make this coordination once so that those who have small pensions will receive higher amounts in this coordination than those who already have a large pension and so on under the law. So I propose that the Government which proposes this law, following a reduced procedure, carefully examine this amendment. Although I do not know how much can be done in such debates when such ad hoc discussions take place, following a reduced procedure, but I am sure that the arguments here are the most common. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] I will finish right away - the arguments do not come into force, but in the end, the number of deadlines wins and we accept what we accept, either way with consciousness, if it is not good, and the second year will be fixed again, and the pensioners will be satisfied again, as Mr Kebric has said. [[...]] I don't want to argue with you, but your performance was actually the same as what you said last year; I think you have written it and that you will be able to read it next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Grandchild has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the client of young people, we propose that the whole article be deleted for reasons such as the legal possibility of pensions growing faster than wages, all pensions, the highest and lowest. If there was any division here at the lowest, as we have said in the introduction, that we are to increase the lowest pensions, not some general option. We also understand that, until now, such an option, an explanation as it has been in practice so far, is poor because it has been left to each minister individually. However, we believe, given that other changes are being prepared, that the government should study thoroughly and make a better proposal, because we cannot imagine that all pensions could increase while wages would be paid, I will say, on some almost wage-based basis in production. We therefore suggest that you, your fellow Members and colleagues, delete this article and that the existing option is still better than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u32	Any other Members and Members would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I would like to ask the Minister, whom I also welcome on this occasion to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. In view of Mr Sok's discussion, I could say that, in fact, the proposal prepared by the government has prepared a longer period of time, in the framework of a commission or expert group dealing specifically with the issue of the harmonisation of pensions and salaries, and then in the first part or in the 150th article, where we say that pensions can grow faster than wages and should not grow more slowly than the cost of living index. This ensures a fundamental principle, which is a principle that is in fact applicable in most of the practices and also in the legal arrangements of the European Union countries. That is why I think that what you said is also in line with what is written in this first part or in the 150th article.The differences then arise in 150a. and 150.b. Look, this is actually one methodological thing that might look a little complicated on paper, but otherwise it's relatively simple. And if you allow me to simulate it briefly, because I think that if you were to write it in formulas, you could actually introduce it very quickly. This is the next situation. As long as pension increases or wage increases occur during a certain period of time, harmonisation is then carried out in February according to a certain growth in the previous period. However, since full harmonisation of wages and pensions is then impossible, in paragraph 150a of the first paragraph, we have now made a difference between, say, the two indices, the wage growth index and the pension growth index. Let's say it's a one-percent point. This then multiplys by 50 percent or 0.5 percent and, in fact, increases the further alignment of pensions to wages. This means that pensions will be harmonised for this percentage, which was created as a difference that, say, this formula could not be completely covered. And I must say that there has been a very long discussion about this, including with representatives of pensioners, including representatives of DeSUS, and that this was ultimately a solution which in some ways also met the professional criteria, that is to say that we have remained within the public financial framework, which is what this Parliament has already adopted in the budget. That's what this is about. In fact, there is a greater degree of harmonisation of pensions and wages. Then, of course, there is the possibility of the next harmonisation, which is given in principle in September, if the wages do not then reach or the pension is still at the level of wages or even over wages, if we speak some dynamics, but not in September, but only in October or November or December. In short, in the calendar year, this harmonisation will then be carried out. And it seems to us that, in fact, it is very precisely possible to implement that basic principle between wage coordination and pensions. The 150.b Article, as proposed by the Member of the Grandchild, is not a matter of coordination, but of special cases and is essentially a case-by-case matter because a single amount is being paid. This is said not to be a systemic case when it comes to coordination, but it could be said that, in some cases, pensions actually fall under the cost of living index. This is said to be a real fall, which, of course, is also prevented by the first part of Article 150. However, if we looked at the realistic situation, then we would see that the macro-fiscal scenario itself does not foresee a drop in the cost of living index, at least not until 2006 and 2005, which is what the macro-fiscal scenario has been adopted and that such a situation is not actually possible during this period. These are two answers for a short period of time, which concerns the discussions of Ambassador Sok and Ambassador Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr Jerovšek, then Mr grandson and then Mr Sok. Three.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must respond to some discussions earlier and to the implementation of Minister Dimovski. In fact, in your performance, you mentioned that there was broad coordination in the 150th Article with the pensioners' society or pensioners and DeSUS. Since this was here today in the opening act by DeSUS's representative of a great deal of populism and demagogicism, I must protest. By the way, Mr. Secretary! It means that you support this demagogy and populism, which is completely unjustifiable and uncoordinated. All parties in this National Assembly are very interested. I must say that they have contributed significantly more to the fact that pensioners today have salaries and that we are fighting for the salaries of pensioners. But there's been an abuse. I've just been warned by a pensioner that the newspaper of the pensioners' society says, "We pensioners are under-represented through DeSUS." And there's an absolute identity. There's some demagogy going on over the pensioner's bill of lading, and there's an abuse of the newspaper. The President of the Retired Society, Mr Godec, performs at the DeSUS meetings as if it were the same. And now you, Mr Minister, have supported such demagogies, such a deception of pensioners in Slovenia, and I must say that this is unacceptable. Other parties have done much more to reform the pension system. Much more so that pensions can be coordinated. To make small pensions grow. The Slovenian public should know that there is no trusted party here. We cannot afford this demagogism and this populism and this seduction of the pension population, Mr Minister, and you must be the one to intervene in this area in how pensioners' societies are being abused in the interests of the pensioner, which, of course, is the transmission of some interests in this country. Otherwise, I must say that I agree with Mr Drobnik's amendment, that I think that this would be the easiest way to resolve this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Delak has the word procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u37	I would like to ask you to warn the Member that he does not have the right to argue with the representative of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for this warning, but the Member has this right. Now, in a row. The replica was, if I understand correctly, Mr. Grandchild first. There'll be more replicas now, I guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. I would only comment, in the end, Mr Minister said, about the macro-fiscal scenario and the real picture. But look, a real picture. We're talking about average wages here. What, though, is the average wage made up of? From the lowest and highest wages. And now, which are they growing? Yeah, they only grow the highest, the lowest don't grow. As far as these lowest ones are concerned, it's always less. Because, whose bankruptcy, say, companies, is most of those who have the lowest salary who have lost their jobs. So the average pays us only more. So we propose deleting this article because we believe that we appreciate the efforts, the joint efforts, the meetings that have been on this subject, but still not enough. I don't think it's a real picture like it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you. Next line, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I must say that now, Mr Minister, we are urgently put into a political debate. Not that I would like to, but when he says that DeSUS agrees, he has to fly you somewhere - what does DeSUS have, after all, as a privileged party to this law? The law concerns the whole country, not DeSUS. And if they wrote this complicated formulation there, they did it so that all pensioners can go ask them and then they explain it on the ground what it means now. That's why it's an amendment submitted by a mag. A trifle, extremely clearly written and this amendment does not allow pensions to grow faster than wages, it is said, to remain within this legal provision. It says, however, if you read the fourth paragraph: "The reconciliation of pensions after the previous paragraph shall apply from 1 January of the current year." And that seems essential to me and crucial to this amendment. It is also true what the fellow Member of Parliament has said about coordination in 150.b. You wrote it like that, and I know why it's written so that those who have large pensions will get even more, and those who have low pensions will get fewer. The last paragraph of Article 150b: "The basis for calculating the amount for each beneficiary is its average monthly pension in the previous year." Of course, because he had a lot, he'll have a big average, he'll get a big sum back 12 months, and he'll get a small pension. Thank you very much for such, I would say, social equality and for such amendments to the law, even though DeSUS agrees with them, these gentlemen know why they agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I repeat to both colleagues, Mr Jerovšk and Mr Sok, not to the part where he attacked the parliamentary implementation, because he has no right to do so and in the future warn him, but to incite me to demagogy. Mr. Sok, if you don't understand, you could ask someone, but with the formula, with the calculations, with the simulation nice on paper, you could calculate and display; people are like this, one understands something a little faster, the other a little bit slower, but no harm, I went to school myself, but one was a great guy, and the other was just good or enough. But let's just leave it. The second problem is this. Mr Jerovšek, the coalition means that those parties who are in the coalition coordinate and try to reach consensus and act unitedly, whether that is right or wrong. And the other thing is, Mr. Sok, next. If we were to accept this amendment from Mr. Petty Officer, what would happen? Has anyone deepened that the present 150a proposal says that pensions are being coordinated again in September or later, October, November, December, if the conditions are met that wages have grown faster than pensions? If this has not happened, of course, there can be no harmonisation and pensioners, not only DeSUS, but most pensioners who realistically, objectively look at matters, of course, agree. The other thing is, if I read this proposal of yours, the amendment to make a statement in September, but it only pays for that second year in January. What about those who won't even live to see January? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. So, I, too, have been struck by the performance of Mr DeSUS, when he specifically mentioned DeSUS, I have nothing against DeSUS, I just think that DeSUS is also a member of the ruling coalition and probably must first coordinate in the coalition if things are "spying" like any other, then I do not know why Mr Minister is not, or the job, particularly with the combined list, and with the Slovenian People's Party, and especially with LDS, that DeSUS alone has mentioned as the smallest party in this. I speak in general, equally for all, so there will be no misunderstanding. And I don't think that's right. Now look at what I think is even more important about this whole thing. Mr Minister said that this proposal had long been prepared by a group of experts and probably then this matter stood. But I would only ask a simple lay question, but what about the proposal, which is now in force, which we adopted last year, whether it is not a group, a group has been preparing professionally for a long time, so that those proposals were not so professional, now it turns out they are not. Now it turns out it's not. I hope that it was not the same group that prepared this professionally, which also prepared a proposal that we prepared for our pensioners last year, at the end of the year, for Christmas. That'd be good to know. And if I go back to that thing that seems more important to me about DeSUS. In fact, as far as I can recall, DeSUS or DeSUS's representatives as a party advocated the solutions that are now in force. And now we all confess. The government also admits that these solutions, I don't know, are flawed, bad or whatever, are not good. And now the government is particularly talking to this party that was so eager to defend these views last year. Why, for example, did you not talk to the opposition about these changes, which pointed to these mistakes, which of course you are changing now? This stabbed me at DeSUS, not to talk to them, it doesn't bother me at all. But why didn't you talk to those of us who knew something was wrong back then? That was my point. That was my question. And I don't polymise with any parliamentary group. But with the general approach given by the minister as a representative of this ministry covering this area. And one more thing. If this is a formula, why is it that, after all, there is no formula in the law, because, as respected Mr Kebrič said, we are probably some who understand the formula. You'd probably understand that formula too, and maybe all that talk would be too much. Why did you present the formula here, and those who might understand the formula would immediately understand it, and others might ask. I don't know where I belong, it doesn't matter. But I speak in general. If this is the way of accounting, it should be as clear as possible, because otherwise it is a strange feeling that we are preparing such dictions of law and changes of law, so that as few people as possible understand that then people who want to be informed and know what awaits them should go directly to a specific place and ask what that really means. That's what this is about. Otherwise, I have no comment on this if you are particularly consulted by a group of Members, but I have said what would seem more logical to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you. Two more replicas. First Mr. Sok, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I, Your Honor, my fellow Member, have just begun my explanation, or my debate, by making this formulation extremely complex. I could explain to you, whether I was great or not, that she's extremely confusing and that it would be easier to write. For example, you write here, in the second paragraph of 150.a of article "multiplies by 12 and divides the product by the number of months remaining from the month of reconciliation of pensions to the end of the calendar year". We could write, number three. We all know it's three months. But if all of this were what you are writing here and this harmonisation could also be greater, this alignment would be cut with the first paragraph of Article 150, which states that the rate of growth of pensions cannot exceed the rate of growth of average wages. So you've written this extremely complicated and complicatedly. And because most pensioners aren't great people, according to you, if I go down to this level as you've replicated it, or I conclude that it's not, it's true, they won't understand it either, if only great students understand what you've written. I didn't understand last year's harmonisation either, probably because I'm not a great guy. This year, a year later, you yourself admitted that you have enacted certain shortcomings that need to be corrected. But the way you're fixing them right now, they're not gonna make it. That is why such an amendment is written simply, clearly, logically, and can any pensioner see what this change actually brings to him. With what you have here today in your proposal, it is very complicated to read and know what it will bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u48	Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'd say that to Mr. Kebrich. We have absolutely no objection to the coalition being coordinated, and all the parties. However, as regards what was presented by Minister Dimovski. It was not about the Ministry being aligned with the coalition, but the "extra" role of DeSUS was highlighted and I protested the continued abuse of DeSUS as a fighter for pensioners' rights. And the abuse of the Alliance of Retired Associations, as if it were the same thing as DesSUS. And the abuse of their newspaper. Then I'll show you how. In this paper, it says that we have too few Members over DeSUS. And I think that, too, Mr Minister, you should protest and deny such things in the pensioners' newspaper. There's more and more to this seduction. But I'm interested in having DeSUS representatives tell us how they got involved in some things that weren't very relevant. Like clarifying post-war beatings that also belong in your ministry. Because, according to some data, they have the most members who could say anything on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u50	It's not a replica anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u51	We have none there, yet we have not read anywhere, that they have engaged in this area and that this wound and this trauma and this division of the Slovenians try to reduce and to do something here. But we could make the most of it, and we have never heard of them ever engaging, despite the fact that the President of the country is now calling for something to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u52	This part, the last part of the debate was not a replica and I will not allow a replica of it. Please, Mr. Kebrich, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Comrade Sok, why is it written with the number of months remaining until the end of the year? If I can make it very simple for you. If the coordination was in September, it would be four months from September to the end of the year and divided by four months, if any, if it is in October, divided by three, if it is in November, divided by two, if it is in December by one. It's so simple math, if you just look at it a little bit, but you don't have to be a great guy, and you know what that means. The other thing is callimetering. In the previous term, dear colleagues and colleagues have been appointed to perform, this is not a reform, this is not the case. It's a mistake to admit it's an honor. Calamity is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you. Now, I would like to give the Minister a word, because for a while now I'm sorry, Mr Minister. [[...]] Is that a replica, Mr. Brenčič? It's a debate. Now, if we open a new one. Perhaps it would be good if we ended up with Members of Parliament first, don't you think, Minister? Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. All I know is that this is where the youth group of Members is right. Article 150.b essentially gives some legal possibility, some uncertainty that the provisions of Article 150 will be implemented consistently. All that matters to me is not what this 150.b article says, in the end, that the explicit provisions of the 150 articles are implemented literally. It is only in this that all the integration of pension coordination is important. By way of derogation from Article 150.b, applicants shall be entitled.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you. Now, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd like to respond to some of the replicas that were said here. Now, as far as the record is concerned, the paragraphs of the entry in the individual articles, as far as coordination is concerned. If you remember, the diction so far was to prescribe the methodology of the institution. Many initiatives were that the way the methodology is, explicitly, would be written into the law itself. And this is actually what we wrote with this novel, this 150th article. In fact, this is summed up to say, from a methodology that was professionally prepared and also professionally justified. The second thing I'd like to say is why I mentioned this professional work that was done. Indeed, this article was specially prepared by the expert commission, and as it is written, the result of some professional coordination, which is multi-monthly, with detailed simulations, where various experts, including the pension and disability insurance institution, have cooperated. The basic questions that we asked ourselves here were actually two. Firstly, the most coordinated movement of wages and pensions - and I think that, as it is now stated in Article 150, especially in the first paragraph, where we practically eliminate or eliminate the difference that could arise between two indices, so to speak, 0.5% and 50% of the coordination of the difference in the index is disabled. This is said to increase pensioners for this percentage in February, which they would not otherwise have. This has now been an important determination and I think this is an important contribution to this methodology. Secondly, what I would like to say is now this possibility of harmonisation also in September. With the previous novel, this could have been said, on a one-off basis, it is said, in January, with some transitional period which allowed for coordination in February and, of course, in the long term, coordination in January. Since we have found that actually wage movements are such that pension coordination should also include December, the proposal is now such that there is actually harmonisation in February. The possibility, and this is a legal option, is also the possibility of coordination in September or October or November or December, which is not the case in your proposal and could happen - what has already been said - that once again it can be a one-year harmonisation. Secondly, why I mentioned a certain group of Members. Not in order to trigger any demagogies or anything else, solely for procedural reasons, because a certain parliamentary group had a law in place and had to come to some harmonisation, as regards the fact that this parliamentary group has withdrawn the law and that, in fact, this law can now be considered. Thirdly, I would like to say that these changes today and also the amendments to this 150th article are the result of an analysis that we have prepared and prepared for a very long time and was transmitted to the National Assembly in July. On this basis, the Committee essentially entrusted us with preparing changes to individual articles, and that is what we have done. Four more, which I would like to respond to, as far as wages and wage coordination are concerned and so on. There may be misunderstandings, but in Slovenia we have a minimum wage mechanism. Minimum wages shall be coordinated by aligning with the Life Cost Index [[Inflation]] and a certain percentage of gross domestic product. Which means that an individual - including what you have mentioned, Member Vnučec - cannot have a salary with the lowest wage that would fall in real terms, precisely because of the system of harmonisation that we have with the minimum wage. We do have the concept of starting salary, but in the case of payroll, the employer pays wages that are lower than the minimum wage. And at this point, it's 92,000 and something.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I think that Mr Minister has now given a lot of honest and correct reasons. But I'd say it still proves something. In fact, if an expert group has been preparing a proposal for a long time and, as we have heard, in the middle of this year, there have been some results, I am even more surprised at why it was necessary to change the law on the nose at the end of last year, which reduced pensions; that is probably clear to all of us and we have also heard today. Now I'm gonna be a little mean. I'll admit that's gonna be a bit of a bad point. I don't know if it was a reward for such an election result or something. You can imagine a lot of things. But good, I said it was a little bit like that. I'd say that we warned about what just happened last year. Well, we're not, as it's called, generals after battle, but we've warned before battle what will happen in this battle that the pensioners will be lost. That's what we warned you about. No one can tell us that, and no one can deny it, while others have advocated, of course, this proposal. Maybe the ones that should best be, but of course that's another story. In view of what we say, say, in the Social Democratic Party or in the opposition, we expect that in the future, on this segment of legislation, if we warn on the wrong side first, then in one year, the law will have to be corrected to ask us if we will see these things further, as it was in this case. In this light, understand my debate before and now. We're counting on you to ask us because we knew what was going to happen. And not just those who didn't or didn't see it, couldn't see it or didn't want it, it doesn't matter after all. I'm counting on it, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you. Can we close the debate on the amendments to Article 150? Yes, you can. First of all, we're just going to explain how we're going to vote because we have two amendments to Article 150. [[...]] Article 18, I'm sorry. We're going to vote on the Mag's amendment first. A trifle and then Mr. Levich's amendment. They're shutting down. So please, we're voting first. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u61	On behalf of the Group of Members, I ask before the decision, i.e. before the vote on Article 150, 15 minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u62	15 minutes' rest. 12.28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u63	Well, please, let's figure out how many of us are in the hall first. Let's press the quorum. 55 present. So we're done. I'm asking Mr. Petty Officer if he wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The New Slovenia Group therefore consulted on the decision, the vote on Article 150. We believe and firmly believe that our proposal is clearer, more justified, more appropriately addressing the problem of pension coordination, so that there is no major declines, no rises, in short it follows the basic purpose of this law and pensions to align pensions with wage increases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. Yes, you can. So we're voting first on the Mag's amendment. A trifle to Article 18. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 17 Members and Members voted against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Let us also vote on Mr Lević's amendment, the Youth Group of Members. Let's vote, please. Of the 64 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 18. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 48 Members and Members voted in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] The Article has been adopted. We continue with the amendments. We're at the 20th. The amendment's proposal is mag. It's a trifle. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u66	It's an editorial. And we support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u67	The government supports the amendment. Who wants another word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on Article 20. Let's vote. Of the 62 present, 60 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on Article 20. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 55 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] Article 20 has been adopted. Now, in Article 28, we have in our review of the amendments the text, i.e. the amendment to Article 28, where it is, as you can see, that Article 28 is amended. And we also have mags in the building. A petty amendment to Article 28. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 28. Mr Brenčič applied first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I want to discuss the amendment we have as the first amendment to the review. This is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. With this amendment, we want to do what I think we should do in this law. Also with this title, that we must take this law as a whole, both to those who already give them rights and to those who guarantee material rights by making contributions. He has already said a lot about the content of his fellow Member, Dr. Tsukati, in the presentation of the groups. I want to add the following to that. As soon as this law, as we are changing it today, was established almost two years ago, we have found that the determination of the dosage base for self-employed persons at that time is likely to be too demanding or that the dosing basis represents an over-compensation basis for self-employed contributions, in a manner such as self-employed workers, the craftsman s.p. For example, covered in the title of net profit. We also do not want to intervene with this amendment in order to eliminate the unequal position of those covered by the self-employment of S.p., in the case of those insured as members, owners of the company and in a working relationship. But with this amendment, we want to eliminate what is evident by the arguments also supported. That the argument is strong also causes many initiatives or applicants to request the Constitutional Court to remedy this unequal situation. The fact is that it is expected, of course, given the nominal dose that the law brings - contribution rates or bases - to reduce the spillage into the pension register. But it's just supposed to be. In the last year, we can record a change in the status that is consistent with this process of st.p. in a company in which, of course, this company's owner also has a status of employment, whether the transition is in another form where it has a working relationship again, that the process is so numerical that, at the final stage, it represents a negative income for the state budget or for the pension and disability allowance, in case it is necessary to reduce a certain limit or the extent of the contribution rate or the dose base for these self-employed persons. I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen because it's gonna have to come. It will only be a shame if this process continues, but for the country as such it is not good. He's not good. We also discussed this widely on the committee, because there were substantial arguments by the Chamber of Commerce, but somehow we did not support the amendment there: there was a levelled number "for" and "against". However, this amendment, which we have proposed for the Committee to argue and support there, has been somewhat too strong or too strong in content. With this, we, too, in the proposal that we now have here in the title of the parliamentary group, have drawn up dosing bases so that some kind of real compromise is between what the law has, which is such that it leads to some status that is not right, and, of course, what the craftsmen or self-employed themselves would like. So I'm essentially asking you to do what we should do. It should be said about this novel that before this amendment, an initiative or amendment of the law, which was amended by Article 209, was also tabled and amended more than we did with the amendment and that this amendment - in favour of the proposaler, the government, being more comprehensive in addressing the necessary changes in the law - has also been withdrawn. That way, I wouldn't discuss it any further. However, I know that if I do not continue to rely on the strong arguments that have been put forward, it would be good for us to have what the proposer should have done - not an amendment, but a drafter of the amendment - a very clear idea of what this is now, when the transition is, say, over 3,000 pp. in another State Treasury status or what constitutes such a high-dose basis for self-employed persons, for example, with other statuses they may have in business. That would make it easier for us to decide in this case. However, we do have some recordable data that cannot be contradicted, but they do. After all, it should also be borne in mind that there are also some kinds of possible in the title of S.p., not to say abuse, but to use the possibility of incorporating many things into the title of a clean residue that do not belong there, and thereby essentially reducing the dose base. But it's possible! It is also possible that so many and so many of these entities cannot and cannot do this. After all, we must also say that there is relatively intensive financial control over S.p.s. If I may also point out that the amendment I have just explained is both significantly more acceptable to the revenue of the State budget, it is slightly less favourable for those concerned, that is, for self-employed persons, such as the amendment we have in the review or in the framework of the amendments proposed by the Member, Comrade Drobnic. This would be a good way to support this amendment, thus resolving what we should resolve, and let us resolve what we are about to resolve in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. We have proposed this amendment on the basis of an expert opinion. We also believe that the suggestion from the Chamber of Commerce was justified. Of course, it is an assessment of how these two upper classes would be properly defined. We are such that, in our opinion, this is best suited to the criterion of neutrality or proportionality. By proposing to the other Members that our amendments be supported, including in order for self-employed, craftsmen and private companies to have the proper arrangements, and in order for the prosperity of these, these forms of activity to be the same as in some economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u72	Your Honor! I think that colleague Brenčič, with this amendment's proposal, has opened up important dilemmas, and I expect that the government will also answer some of the very well-founded questions and help us resolve some dilemma. Personally, as a coalition Member, of course, I strongly support the actions of this government, which are going to strengthen the state budget's revenues. At the same time, of course, I think we all share the view that the burdens of the economy should be at such a level that the economy still holds them back. Here are certain arguments in the direction that one particular segment of our economy - or wider - of self-employed persons is over-burdened. Personally, I believe that independent entrepreneurs are a part of entrepreneurship, for which it is logical that they are burdened more than people in classical employment. However, these arguments show that this burden may be disproportionately high. There's something else I'm worried about. I see many times in the performances of various representatives, responsible representatives of individual departments - I may misunderstand, but I follow some degree of aversion to the categories of independent craftsmen entrepreneurs and I do not think that is good. True, these are very inventive, usually, mostly highly inventive personalities, who in a significant number also reduce themselves some credibility in performing in society by avoiding paying off the real amount of taxes and contributions, for example, when a rich convert with a Mercedes brings into a kindergarten where we get, say, the benefits of the lowest paid people. In short, there is a lot of indiscretion and probably also irregularities in this segment. However, I believe that, when we weigh the pros and cons, we should avoid the loss of the fictitious inflows of the state budget being compensated by a solution that would overly destimulatingly burden the craftsmanship and part of the self-employed. I'm having a hard time making a final decision right now. I believe in the proposals that there are a lot of important arguments in the elaboration of colleague Brenčič, and I expect that the government will help us see and weigh these dilemmas more comprehensively before deciding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members want a word before we give the word to the government, I mean? [[No, no, ……]] First three, please, for answers. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u74	So, the determination of insurance bases for self-employed people has always been and is still a problem. Self-employed people don't get paid, they get profits. When we are talking about even or unequal burdens, I think the first thing we need to take into account is the burden on those who are employees who receive salaries that pay contributions from these gross wages, and these contributions are determined - in fact there is no possibility of any choice. On the other hand, we are talking about those who do not have a salary, who have a profit, which means: what, after they pay certain costs, is actually left behind and they are obliged to pay their contribution from this profit. If we are doing this comparison, maybe only the case would actually try to take someone who has 383,000 and a few profits, and from this title has 338 thousand pension bases and pays 82.523 contributions. If we take someone who has the same self-employed person I've been talking about, they pay gross wages; someone has 383,000 profits; the other has 383,000 gross wages, which means a net salary of about 220 thousand. This one has 93 thousand 343,000 contributions to pay. So it's said, 10,000 800 tolars more than the one who's employed and who pays it out of profit, that's what he's actually left with. And if we are looking at a comparison now, because we have done these calculations on the proposal of the amendments presented by Mr Brenčič, the difference between the self-employed and the employee would be no more than 10 000 - in fact more payments for the employees - but this difference would be 35 000. We have, I must say, worked quite precisely for the various incomes of self-employed persons and wages, and I have something else to say. In the case of self-employed persons, the payment limit is stopped for someone who has 575 thousand earnings per month. There is no limit for employees. You know, as much as someone has a gross salary, that's how much they pay. So there's no upper limit. The social security contribution shall be paid from the gross salary, i.e. unlimited. So much for talking about these even burdens. I don't think we just have to take status s.p., but the status of the partner, where there is something possible, I have to say, some foreign speculations that we listen to with this law also because of this - at least to some extent, completely difficult - because from the present base of the minimum wage, we raise basics on the lowest insurance base, which is about 40,000 more than in the past. So I think it's important to compare employees: self-employed. The second thing that seems important to me is to know the extent to which we are talking about the means. At the annual level, this amendment, which is ahead of us, is 4 billion. 4 billion for all social security contributions, not only for PPIZ, but also for health insurance, for employment. Of this, 64 per cent falls away from the pension and disability insurance institutions, which means about 2 billion 560 thousand fewer annual funds for the employment institution. For all insurance, including health care, that's 4 billion. And I think that things are not negligible and that they must, of course, be looked at from this point of view. We have not made such precise assessments on Mr Drobnič's amendment, which we have just received today at the table. But I have to say that his amendment actually means an even greater failure. I can't tell him the exact number right now because, I say, we didn't do the calculation in the way we did for the amendment they got before. It is true, however, that this amendment is even more difficult financially, given that it not only breaks these individual classes into several classes but actually ends up much lower than what was proposed, or where the amendments of the public party end. That is, it ends at 3.5 times the lowest pension base. We're finishing up the upper class at 4 multiples. Thus, the financial assessment of this amendment would probably be even higher or certainly even higher than 4 billion. I have to say again: we have followed these requirements in part to the self-employed, so we have even corrected Article 209 – another class has been introduced between the lowest and the highest class under the current law and among those under this class. In short, among these highest, with profit, we introduce a new class and thus partially actually unload and follow what has already been discussed several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please, Mr. Brenčič and then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First, it must be said that the amendment also resolves exactly the same content as the government's proposal in the bill. It introduces two more indents, establishes the basics and also ends with a maximum, four times, minimum base, as well as a government proposal. Otherwise, I do not know these numbers, as Mrs Belopavlovič has provided them to us. It would be very good to have them to see them live. However, I do not think that this is the case, given what I myself have been able to obtain in practice. You have not answered anything, Mrs Belopavlovič, what is the relationship or what brings the transition of the status of S.P. to the status of a member or to another form in which it is secured from the working relationship, in case it remains. That's a big number. We now have about 13,000 such s.p.s, for which the same will happen next year as this process began this year. I think we need to take that into account. All I can say is that in 208th article of the law, we are now changing something to raise this foundation for owners. But this relationship will still be in the best interest of the latter, so that this process will inevitably continue its course. And I think that's probably going to be decided by the Constitutional Court, as long as it gets deeper into the clearness of the imbalance, or would you say, in some kind of discriminatory attitude of such or other status towards the obligation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you. The word is Mr. Tiny, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't have those numbers on my hands. But I can tell you from experience or from what is happening on the market. If the S.P.s are transformed into limited liability companies, then it means that financial operations within such a company, i.e. limited companies, are cheaper for that producer. While we must be aware that, from a market perspective, private companies are more reliable for creditors and for contractual partners because they are more likely to guarantee. Every person who pays taxes or contributions is the greatest person who knows what that means. And if by his actions he has shown this to a private society, then he must be trusted. In full, if we take account of other duties, of course. In fact, one is my personal income, and the other is my business income as a sole entrepreneur or craftsman. This is what has led us to whom and, of course, the other could also give a final opinion by the Constitutional Court, whether it is a measure of proportionality and justice. Thus, the final instance may also be the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Discussions Yes, please, and Mr. Tuckyat. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. In listening to the Ministry's explanations, I think it might not be good to accept the amendment of New Slovenia, and not the amendment of the People's Party, to leave this status for some 3, 5, 8 thousand craftsmen in the following year. In fact, those who are supposed to come to a higher rank after this proposal and are so disproportionately, so critically burdened, will certainly have enough resources to go to the status d.o.o. and then, of course, the matter will be settled; we will have only a few poor craftsmen, and they will not be affected so much by this law. Again, it may even be good to confirm the government's proposal, and in fact, we will bring things into what may be a year from now, but we may be forced to radically change our criminal views on craftsmen.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? Does the government want to add anything to this? Please, Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would say that we cannot say in any way that the sole reason for changing the status of the S.P. to a partner is the pension-disability insurance and that this will result in such a disaster as you would like to predict, Mr Cukjat. The fact is that the private sector had more options. Many times he had more opportunities, and of course he was more flexible and more flexible and easier to deal with in this work than those who are employed. The fact is that someone who changes, as a member of the staff, has to work in a job, that he has to pay a normal salary, in accordance with the collective agreement, and that there is control. And if all these problems or fears that you are alerting arise, then this control will need to be intensified, even through work inspection, whether these people are paying for the pay they actually have to pay, or whether they are showing themselves something else, which is essentially a fictitious salary, a fictitious personal income. I would therefore like to point out that things need to be seen more realistically, that these things can be prevented in another way, and that we certainly think that the sole reason for this transition or the change of status is not; the status is also reversed, sometimes also from the partner to the independent entrepreneur and so on. Thus, changes in statuses are available, not just to us, but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Please, procedurally, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am sure that we all agree that there is a very important and responsible decision ahead of us. In our Group of Members, we would like very carefully to examine the information provided by the Secretary of State regarding the financial implications of the amendment adopted. We will ask if you can also give us this in writing, or if we will take it from the magnetogram, and I would procedurally suggest that we continue to make this amendment decision at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u85	In fact, I would like to conclude the debate now because I did not see any interest in this, and then after the break, we would continue to vote on the two amendments at 2.30 p.m. So, I conclude the debate and the morning part of the sitting. We'll resume at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u86	Colleagues and fellow Members. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda. Additional reasons for the continuation of the 11th session are: Miran Jerič for the afternoon part of the session, Dorian Marcič for the afternoon part of the session, Flower Zalokar Orazem for the afternoon part of the session, Jože Ašič from 16.00 p.m. on, Leopold Kremjar from 18.00 p.m. on and Villa Trofenik for the afternoon part of the session. Please, let's find out the conclusion in the hall. Quorum. There are 50 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and can proceed with the work. We have concluded our consideration of Article 28. As is evident in the material, we have two proposals for Article 28, the amendment. We will first vote on the proposal set out in the amendment review. If adopted, the amendment to the 28th Article of Mr Petnik will be irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment to Article 28 of the amendment review. We're voting, please. There were 58 votes in favour and 23 against 32. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment was not accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 28 of the Mag. Janez Petty Officer. We're voting, please. 57 Members and Members, 20 to 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 58 Members and Members present, 47 for, 5 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] The article was adopted. We are discussing Article 39 of the review. Anybody want to talk? It's an amendment to the board. He doesn't want to. I'm concluding. Excuse me, hold on. Representative of the Government, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u87	I just want to say that the government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u88	Let's vote, please! There are 55 Members and Members present. For 46, against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 39 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 54 Members and Members present. For 44, against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the 41st article of the amendment of the Health, Labour and Family Committee. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the vote. Let's vote, please. There are 53 Members and Members present. Fifty, one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 53 Members and Members present. For 46, against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 49. Two amendments. The first is proposed by the Committee on Health, Labour and Family and the second DeSUS, LDS, the Slovenian People's Party and the United List of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u89	Because it is not in the opinion of the government, the Government supports both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. Let's vote, please, on the first amendment. There are 54 Members and Members present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the second amendment. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 46, for 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The article was adopted. We are moving on to Article 51 - one amendment to the Health, Labour and Family Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 48, for 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. There are 54 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The article was adopted. We move on to Article 52 - amendment of the Committee on Health, Work, Family. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The article was adopted. We are moving on to Article 58, four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u91	The government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you. I'm concluding. We're voting on the amendment. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 49, for 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The Article was amended in its entirety. We're moving on to Article 64. Special paper, amendment, group of Members, Kavčič Blaž. Please, Commissioner Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u93	We have tabled this amendment with a few mixed feelings, not because of substantive concerns, because our aim was to sharpen, to define more precisely the commitment that the government has already adopted with the law on pension and disability insurance. In practice, however, the difficulties and inconsistencies surrounding the operation of this fund have been shown in the settlement of the State's obligation to this fund, which has assumed analogous obligations as a pension and disability insurance law, in some part also the resolution of generations who have contributed to their pension in accordance with a satisfactory principle. Well, in practice, there was a very unloving, bad situation when the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs could not start work. The truth is that the Ministry of Labour, as well as other departments, have shown a rather high level of readiness to resolve this problem. The competent committee of the National Assembly also adopted a decision which, in principle, predicts a quicker solution to this problem, but we felt that the problems that had been predicted at the beginning of next year should be made at least an attempt to regulate the issue more effectively. With the proposal of this amendment, we have tried to make a more precise commitment on the part of the two ministries, in order to draw up an appropriate sub-legislative regulation that would not address the problem sufficiently in a sufficiently short time. Of course, we are aware that it would not be good for individual amendments to interfere with the system matter in an inadequate and systematic manner, so we will also listen carefully to the Government's argument whether it agrees with the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u94	Please don't make any phone calls! Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u95	whether he has concerns about the proposed amendment. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. Article 382 referred to in Article 64 of the proposal governs the status of the craftsmen's fund. Our proposal only complements it by adding to the law in force that this fund is entered into a court register. With the entry - those who have dealt with this issue more, you know that there were problems because there was no proper legal basis. So, this supplement allows you to enter the register. The provision of budgetary resources is essentially provided through Article 232. If any implementing regulation was required, the power to grant such a provision could be increased in this Article 232 because, from a systemic point of view, Article 382 does not in any way fall within the scope of this Regulation. In short, the matter covered by this Article 64 does not actually cover what we would like with the amendment and the addition, and we think it does not belong in this Article, and we therefore oppose it. However, the fact is that we are aware that certain things will have to be dealt with in relation to the craftsmen's fund, that some problems will have to be fully resolved. This has already been pointed out in the debate on the working body of the mother, and this has also been the case with the additional decision of the working body of the Member, Mr Brenčič, or the Chairman of that committee, today. Which means we're going to have to go all the way to the problem and solve the problem of this fund, but not all the pieces, and, of course, that's why we're going to have to oppose such an amendment or this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you. Please, Commissioner Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u99	On the basis of the arguments put forward, I withdraw the proposed amendment, thus making the amendment to Article 75 irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u100	Yeah, I'm just asking-- does all the signatories agree with that? [[Se.]] Good. Retired. Did I understand that the amendment to Article 75 was also correct? Thank you. We are moving on to Article 65 - from the review of the amendments - one amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u101	The government does not oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u102	There are 46 Members and Members present, for 40, for 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 39, against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] The article was adopted. We are moving on to Article 66, the amendment of Mr Mag. Oh, you little thing. Anybody want to talk? Please, representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u103	We oppose this amendment, from this point of view, that Article 66 is related to a new Article 18, in which we have amended Article 18 so far, that we are not talking about an exemption from insurance anymore, but we are talking in essence about conditions under which insurance is no longer compulsory. Therefore, it is not possible to implement this Article in the same way as it is set out here in order to apply in a transitional period an exemption from insurance, since such an exemption is no longer known by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 66. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present. Nine, 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 53 Members and Members present. For 49, against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We move on to the amendment to Article 68. Janez Petty Officer. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm concluding. Let's vote, please! Article 68 There are 54 Members and Members present. For 15, against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 68 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 55 Members and Members present. Forty-seven against three. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 68 has been adopted. We're going back to the amendment review. We are discussing Article 73, the amendment of the Labour Committee, the family and so on. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. Let's vote, please! There are 51 Members and Members present. For 45, against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 49 Members and Members present, for 46, for 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Please, Ambassador Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. My discussion will be recognizable, because it's practical to deal with amendments through and unfortunately I've noticed it too late. However, I would like to hear the proposaler's opinion why he ignored the Secretariat's remark on legislation and legal matters in relation to Article 42. I think the proposaler is well-known. It's about who can represent in court. And given that we have even a reference to a fair trial and that it is not known to me that lawyers without a judicial examination could be represented in any other case before a court of law, I am interested in why he decided to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u106	Otherwise, it is not customary for us to go back, but I am asking the government representative to give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you. I must say that the reasons that led us to this 42nd paragraph are rather pragmatic in fact, or practical in nature. In the case of a social court in disputes, the pension and disability insurance institution shall be represented by lawyers employed in this institution. A number of lawyers in this institution who are represented before a court do not have a legal examination or a judicial examination. However, I think that these people know more about these procedures than a lot of people who have this exam, and as a lot of lawyers, because lawyers, we know that they have a very wide range of representations, from criminal to civil law, while people who go to the social court to represent the STIZ are only dealing with these problems and are also representing their client in these contexts, i.e. the institution of pension and disability insurance. If we didn't do that, of course, ZPIZ should drive things in the light of the new PPP, by hiring lawyers for representation, which, of course, would greatly encourage these procedures. We agree that it is appropriate, and it would be more prudent to regulate these matters in the Labour and Social Courts Act. This proposal, on our part, also exists and once the Labour and Social Courts Act is amended, these things will be resolved in the law where they belong, and then this provision can be repealed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 40, for 9. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. Can I have some peace, please? We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to the following Articles 20, 39, 41, 49, 51, 52, 58 and 73 have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Not one, not the other. Since we are no longer willing to discuss, we are passing [[...]] I'm sorry, I have to ask you first what it's like to be consistent. I'm asking for a representative. So, the law is in harmony. Since the law is mutually coordinated, we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting, please. There are 58 Members and Members present, 49 to 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] The law was fully adopted. The Committee proposes two additional decisions, which we have in the report since 5.12. Anyone want to discuss additional conclusions? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude, we vote on the proposal for a decision under number one. Let's vote, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 42, for 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The first additional decision was adopted. We are also voting on an additional decision under number two. Let's vote, please. I'm asking for a little concentration. Let's vote again. Let's vote again, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The second additional decision was adopted. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and thank the Minister and the co-workers for their participation in the National Assembly. We're moving to four. I'm asking you for peace. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE PRESCRIPTED INTEREST MEASURES AND THE BASIC INVESTIGATION MEASURES - A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I welcome the representatives of the Government. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Ministry of Finance and the Government continued to lead a number of reasons for drafting a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Interest Rates on Interest Interest Rates and Fundamental Interest Rates, which allows me to list only three of the most important reasons. The first reason is in recent comments on the inadequate movement of late interest rates, which is considered by some economic associations to be too high. The second reason is changed Slovenian accounting standards, which will enter into force with the start of next year. The third reason is the specificity of Slovenia, which is the only candidate among all ten other members of the European Community to use indexation as a way to ensure the maintenance of the real value of claims or liabilities in the economy. Following the current law adopted in the 1995 National Assembly, the late interest rate is calculated by adding a basic interest rate of 1,8 times the applicable fixed interest rates of the Bank of Slovenia. Given the fact that the inflation rate is declining in 2001 and that, of course, TOM as a basic interest rate, as a criterion for a 12-month average of the increase in the price of living costs, is slightly higher than the actual annual inflation rate, the late interest rate, of course, also began to deviate more from the basic interest rate. Let me just give you some illustrative data. In 1995, the average interest rate of TOM was 8.19 and the late interest rate was 31.54%. The late interest rate was therefore 3.85 times higher in 1995 than the basic interest rate. At the end of 2000, the late interest rate under this same methodology was only 2.7 times higher than the basic interest rate, but it was already 2.8 times higher in December of the same year. In January of this year, the late interest rate, which reached 28% and 56 hundreds, had already reached three times the basic interest rate, and in October, the latest official data, the official data of the Bank of Slovenia, had reached 27.10 percent interest rate by 3.7 times already exceeded the TOM, which reached 7.3% in October. In particular, the comments and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, as well as from the other economy, led the government to propose a different method and method of calculating late interest rates in the new text of the Supplement or amendments to the Act. The late rate should be calculated in such a way that the basic interest rate calculated each month by Banka Slovenije is added to the interest rates of 15 %. That's the government's proposal. In this case, under unchanged other conditions, the late interest rate in October would not be more than 27%, but 22% in the same TOM. The second reason for supplementing and amending the law is the amended accounting standards, which are expected to change in Slovenia or which will change. Slovenian accounting standards have so far completely deviated from international accounting standards in terms of revalorisation or indexation. With changes that are mainly applicable to the financial system, Slovenian accounting standards are already approaching international ones, but will still differ from them in the fact that Slovenian companies continue to be obliged to revalue capital from next year, not to revalue claims and liabilities. The suspension of mandatory rebalancing also allows banks, savings banks as well as food and credit services to derogate from the usual composition, display and publication of revalorative subcontractors so far. Undoubtedly, this is a savings for banks, and even more important for the entire financial system is the fact that this opens the way for banks of Slovenia to propose from 1.7 next year, in the demand market and in the supply of deposits and loans up to one year, with nominal interest rates. This will enable banks to join the State Treasury and Banka Slovenije, which for some time have been assisting their supply of securities with maturity of up to one year with nominal interest rates. Nominal interest rates or nominalism are, of course, what we need before we enter the European Community. The third reason is that our specification, which needs to be gradually replaced by market instruments, with legal indicators on the value of money and its price, and for a period of more than one day over one year, for different periods of time, of course, the interest rate. Not only London, not only the French monetary institutions, but also the Czech financial institutions, the Czech financial system, the Polish, Hungarian, have known for many years the so-called reference rates for the money market, which are formed on the basis of interbank interest rates for which we did not have the right instrument in Slovenia. Therefore, the law authorizes the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, at the same time, the Association of Banks of Slovenia to publish interbank interest rates on the first working day of the following year, namely those that are quoted by banks in their daily operations, meaning that they offer funds or are willing to rent funds at these rates. The purpose, of course, of these obligations and of these powers to the Association of Banks of Slovenia, which will publish these interest rates every working day, shall be calculated and published in accordance with the methodology to be previously published in the Official Journal and shall therefore be made available to the public at all times to verify and monitor it - its implementation - is that these interest rates, which will be calculated and published, for the price of money from one day to nine months - one day, one week, two weeks, one month, two months, three months, six months, nine months - will gradually apply in the real sector and in the mutual financial relations between partners as reference rates, which Slovenia is expected to fully replace the current instrument - this is the basic interest rate before Slovenia enters into the European Community. The fundamental interest rate, which is deeply rooted in a series of contracts and in the formation of, of course, the prices of money on the market, remains in force in our country. What the government is proposing with amendments and additions is the gradual opening of space for the enforcement of a more market-friendly and better instrument to design and take into account the real price of money. The driver of TOM's replacement is a changed philosophy of attitude towards inflation. TOM represents the 12-month-old average of cost-of-living growth and thus represents past inflation. The inclusion of TOM in pre-contracts means, of course, that, given past inflation, in cases where inflation is falling at all, it means complete security. Not only does it represent complete security for both parties, but it also represents a generator of an increased inflation rate, as it is an expression of the past higher inflation rates. Of course, under conditions of a longer-term downward trend in inflation. The reference rates, however, are based on expected future inflation rates. The reference rates therefore contain risks that are consciously taken by both contractual partners, the provider and the demander, whether the real rate of inflation will behave as planned or be slightly different. The risk they know in all financial contracts in all developed market systems. The background is therefore a fundamental change in the philosophy of value and the importance of inflation. Not only the opening of space, because of course we are still running out of time to fully prepare for the conditions, but, of course, our economic operators, as they will be in competition in the European Community when we accept it, but also the warnings of the International Monetary Fund, have directed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the drafting of the text of this document. The International Monetary Fund, in its review of the ability, competence of the Slovenian financial system, which it carried out in 1999, found that a high rate of inflation and indexing was one of the elements that not only, as I said before, generated inflation in the future, but which did not fully meet the conditions that we would like to approach. The indexation, such as it is, and the use of TOM also, of course, undermine the effectiveness of the instruments it has and which the central bank of each country must have at its disposal in achieving its basic objective, that is, the objective of stable prices or, in the case of our country, the goal of lowering inflation rates, targeted inflation. The representatives of the European Community, in their review of how our financial institutions and their supervisory institutions operate, also note in the report submitted to us that the high rate of inflation with indexation is, of course, within the framework of the financial system, which Slovenia must cancel as soon as possible when it creates conditions for something better. Even though the European Community's very favourable November report on Slovenia's progress in the past year in six places explicitly emphasises that the high inflation rate generated and linked to indexation remains a concern whether Slovenia will be able to join the European Community in a timely manner. The government is therefore seeking to reduce costs for irregular payers by means of a proposal for amendments and by supplementing this law, thus reducing and modifying the methodology for calculating late interest rates, and, on the other hand, wants to pave the way for the implementation of the system of nominalism and the system of market interest rates, which can only bring about a full improvement in the competitiveness of the Slovenian banking system and, of course, also of the economy, a reduction in its active interest rates and which, during the transitional period, should ensure Slovenia's competence to increase the level of competitiveness that lies ahead of us in the European Community. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u110	Mr. Mag. Tolar, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. The word has Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. The mother's working body addressed that draft law, which was introduced by the government into the rapid procedure procedure. In a rather boisterous and substantively rich debate on a short proposal for a law, the main focus was on the content of Article 2 - this is an article that defines the amount of the prescribed interest rate of late interest. And, as I have already said, the Committee has also adopted a proposal by the amendment that the amount of these interest by TOM + 15 should be reduced to TOM + 12. It was also pointed out that some of the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters were of importance, and in this regard the Committee also adopted the relevant amendments to follow the Secretariat's comments on the legislation and legal affairs of our National Assembly, Articles 3, 5 and 7. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision to support the Government's proposal to deal with that law and to adopt it quickly, together with the amendments to the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? He signed up for the mag. Andrej Vizjak, Social Democratic Party. Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When adopting amendments and supplementing the Late Interest Rate Act, it should be pointed out that the current law does not regulate or address the problem of setting up bank interest rates and other contractual interest rates. This is a matter of contractual relations, and the bank could already approach the change of the current system without these changes, a gradual abandonment of the basic interest rate or its replacement by setting up another real interest rate with an inclusive rate of inflation. In our view, banking management, in particular in the largest state banks, seems to be simpler in terms of responsibility for the successful management of banks, and is now simply forced by the amendment and amendment of the law to start with urgent changes. The law will determine that the association of banks, as a private institution, calculates and publishes interbank interest rates as one of the types of market interest rates, which are formed in normal financial systems on the market. We believe that the objectives of the changes in the interest rate system could be achieved without the addition of this law or without Article 4a and Article 4b, if the Bank of Slovenia were more active in the performance of its function. The Bank of Slovenia would adapt the creation of a basic interest rate by adapting its conclusions to changes and actual inflation. The problem of the abolition of the basic interest rate or the reduction of the single interest rate up to one year is also certain to be caused by the Treasury Treasury, which does not affect or underly affect the reduction of interest rates by relatively high indebtedness for the purposes of the State budget. We are aware that the abolition of the basic interest rate is one of the most demanding projects of this country in terms of maintaining the stability of the banking system and at the same time meeting the conditions for entry into the European Community. In the opposition, we fear that the Bank of Slovenia's announcement that the country will be in this big project or that it will not join this big project until after 1.7.2002 is that it is very dangerous or too late for such difficult changes. We also point out that this project should be approached sooner or no later than 1.4.2002. Another very important issue is the reduction of late interest rates. We are confident, and practice has also shown that the reduction in late interest rates does not affect or underact, or is not effective in providing financial discipline. We believe that a reduction in interest rates is necessary because these late interest rates are cumbersome and do not affect financial discipline, but cause difficulties in the Slovenian economy and, of course, because of the inability to pay such high tax rates, some financial, in particular smaller, financial and economic operators in our country are practically failing. We believe that more attention should be paid to a more appropriate, efficient recovery process and, in combination, of course, with late interest rates, which are in line with the requirements of the European Community, to make an effective system of redress in, of course, ensuring the financial discipline of this country. In the Social Democratic Party, we will support the law, because it is based and is going along the way in which we think that Slovenia must go - both in terms of approaching the European Community and, of course, the creation of late interest rates. We stress, however, that only this law will have no effect and contribute to financial discipline. In particular, the financial non-discipline of the country as one of the largest contracting entities in Slovenia needs to be highlighted here and we believe that this legislative content is also a suitable topic and that the government is aware of the problems of financial non-discipline and the collapse of some of the smaller economic operators due to this inadequacy in Slovenia. I'll point that out. It is necessary to speed up and make a more efficient enforcement system and, of course, also a judicial procedure in this area, which, in combination with the corresponding high late interest rate, would, of course, somehow lead to the desired target. We also support the amendment of the Finance Committee, which followed the debate on the Committee itself, and anticipates this percentage added to TOM, 12 and not 15%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Joseph Bernick, New Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u115	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly discuss this proposal, the proposal for a marriage, first of all mentioning that this proposal came to our table relatively late. The reason for this is that, as of 1 January of the following year, changes to Slovenian accounting standards will be in force. It is noted, as our Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has found, that all of this would result: for the first time, the reduction of the general level of market interest rates, the increased competitiveness of Slovenian banking and the acceleration of the inflation reduction process as one of the Slovenian government's priorities. If all of this is true and this holds true, then one wonders how this marriage did not come into the national assembly much earlier. As we can see, this proposal is short, but it is of utmost importance. Several interested parties also took part in this proposal, including the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. Let me say that the Chamber of Commerce came up with very reasoned arguments and, among other things, found that the late rate of interest so far was macho or shag. I admitted to the committee myself that I did not know much about this matter, but I soon received quite an interesting education in this. In fact, so far I have never met such a monstrously late interest rate as we have had Slovenians, and in the context of a real market economy, this is regulated in a market way, i.e. with contracts between banks and clients. I have nowhere to find out what this interest rate has caused to the Slovenian economy. On the one hand, it was supposed to reduce inflation and other things, and on the other hand, I do not know how much damage was done primarily to the small economy, although the question I raised on the committee was that it was a penalty for non-payers, not those who regularly pay. The question is how many regular payers have moved into the category of those who have been unable to pay these high interest rates. Well, the Chamber of Commerce or, sorry, the Chamber of Commerce proposed a reduction in the late interest rate, namely, what the Finance Committee later adopted, i.e. TOM + 12% of the percentage points instead of 15, as proposed by the Government until the beginning. Therefore, the second conclusion, which was also interesting, is that between the transitional governments, Slovenia alone maintained the indexation system, while all other transition countries immediately switched to the mechanism, to another mechanism for determining, calculating and setting reference rates and as already introduced in the European Community or the European Union. The Slovenian state also proposes that the current system should change - this is the so-called termination of TOM - this change should become effective on 1 July, which we think is very late in our party. Let me also mention that this is a welcome thing, but there is one thing that bothers me a little bit, because we hear that the savers are already thinking about whether it's even worth saving in our money. I have not heard any discussion about this, and I hope that someone will explain this matter. On the other hand, very good comments have come from our secretariat for legislation, and I congratulate them for being very pervasive. Among other things, it was a reflection against the power of the Association of Banks of Slovenia to determine the methodology for the calculation of Slovenian interbank interest rates as a type of market interest rate, as well as for the calculation of these interest rates. It is interesting that this argument was not accepted by the Committee. I think it was a mistake, because the association is only an interest association that has its own interests in mind, although if the Bank of Slovenia is sufficiently sensitive, nothing should happen that would harm Slovenian finances. We in New Slovenia will support this proposal, even though it seems to us that in some things it is weak, because we simply have no other option than to face the reality that is pressing us. But once again, I would like to say that this is one of those laws that came to our table relatively late and is haunting us because we have a deadline for this proposal to be narrowed down before the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you. Would you like to speak with another representative of the other parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has signed up in writing, I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I ask for a little patience, and I call on Members outside the Chamber to join us. Let's vote, please! In a few moments, we'll vote another time. Let's vote next time, please! Unfortunately, we're not concluding this path either. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue until 15.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u117	I ask Members and Members to take their seats, because this is the third time we will vote. This is the third time we've voted. This is the third time we've voted. 54 Members and Members, 43 for, 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find the remaining articles and amendments accepted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of 18.12.2001 and the additional amendment to the amendment of Ambassador Blaž Kavčič. I am putting to the debate Article 2, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. One moment please, Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. As you can see, the government has proposed in the original text a interest rate for late marriage interest of TOM + 15, that the Finance Committee has proposed, is also reinforced by the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce to reduce this late marriage interest, the proposal that the late marriage interest rate of TOM + 12 should be reduced, and that, in practice, at least in the introductory debates, you also all tended to do so. However, before deciding on this very important article, I would like to further explain some things, why the government has carefully examined at first the fact that we are amending this law from the point of view of late interest, and second from the point of view of the proposed rate of late interest. Look. It's two relationships. The main talk was on tax liabilities for taxpayers towards the country, but first I would like to draw attention to the second point. Legal late interest shall apply to all contractual relations. In the present law, late marriage interest was prescribed as the highest, which is then essentially the case of things that happen in the form of obstetrics or obstetric interest. So, he prescribed the law, where do you get the obstetric interest? This is a little different than in the practice of other countries in Europe, where, of course, there is no doubt a higher financial discipline, if you want, including a tax and financial culture where the European Directive has set a minimum threshold, and from here on out, even unlimited. So that's a big substantive difference. And since it prescribed that the minimum late rate in all ratios is the reference rate plus a minimum of seven additional points. Translated into our situation, the government has carefully examined these matters, translated into our inflation situation, translated into our culture in these financial relations, especially in view of the fact that financial non-discipline in the economy is increasing enormously, it is said, among the contractual partners, and if this financial non-discipline is further increased due to the fact that, for example, late interest, which is the only interest on sanctions, as a sanction to the debtor who came due to the default of his payment obligation in this delay, financial non-discipline would therefore be increased. A substantial number of judicial proceedings would increase, as delays would therefore accumulate as such. Therefore, this is one aspect of the increase in financial non-discipline in these contractual relationships, while very uncritical of lowering the level of statutory late interest. The second is this tax aspect. It was said that the State is stripping off all those taxable persons who do not comply with their basic obligation, that is, the payment of a tax which has been duly assessed and also legally imposed by a dose in the tax procedure. It is very strange to support this way in the essence of non-payment of tax liabilities. True, one can say, yes, because when we lower it, those who have not paid so far will not pay anyway. No one asked themselves, including the Chamber of Commerce, when it proposed in many of the talks a non-critical reduction, whether the taxable person was in any other way, would say that he was incapacitated or unable to hire a bank if they were indeed in the market of lower interest, a loan to settle tax obligations and would not even be in tax delay, in the late payment of tax debt. However, I would like to state and substantiate exactly why the government proposed TOM + 15. See, the European Directive, which speaks, "European Central Bank’s reference rates", is 3.25 plus a minimum of 7 additional points, this is the ratio of this reference rate, 1 to 2.15, i.e. these 7 additional points to 3.25 is 1 to 2.15. We have a proposal for a TOM that is currently 7.3 to 15, that's 1.1 to 2.05. Thus, it is already lower than the European Directive minimumly prescribed the level of late interest. Next, let's see what our market interest rates are or what our regular terms are, whatever we use here. From Banka Slovenije's newsletter, where the average for better committees for short- and long-term loans is published, these interest rates are between 14 and 15%. We have followed the principle that is written in our bond code, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u119	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u120	that the OEMs are treated if they are 50% higher than some of the applicable prescribed or established markets, if we want to pass a little free of this bond code to this area, because we do not yet have this reference rate, which a colleague of the State Secretary has previously stated more about in the introduction. [[...]] So if we stick 50% on this 14 to 15%, we're here where the government proposes TOM + 15, which in nominee means about 22% on an annual level. These are the reasons why we are essentially proposing TOM + 15. When there was a speech when a representative of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Mr Bernik, said that he had not seen such obstetric interest for taxpayers anywhere in the world. Look, I'm going to quote directly what the German tax administration has explicitly written down in its laws as taxpayers. Let us not forget that we have the only penalty for taxpayers written down or formed in this late rate. On the contrary, in the event of a late payment, the State is paying, or if it has overtaxed and has to repay, the same interest, thus paying the taxpayers at the same rate. For example, the German tax administration lays down the principle that each month, i.e. beginning a month with 1% interest interest on this month, and each of the following additional points raises, which means at the annual level a minimum of 18%. In addition to the fact that all other European fiscal systems have fiscal penalties. We don't have them. We don't pay your taxes on time, we don't have the prescribed penalty, except for late interest. They usually have a multiple of a hidden or unpaid tax plus interest on late payment. With us, this is the only measure by which we, in fact, rigorously perform or sanction a payment delay in tax liabilities as well. I would like to point out that the State is paying as well, and we have had quite a few cases this year, when, according to the statutory judgements of the Supreme Court, the State has had to repay the debtors or those who have received too much tax or rubles, if you wish, with the same matrimonial interest. So these are the reasons why the government has examined and proposed very thoroughly, it was immediately for us to lower some level, but not too low and suddenly not to increase financial non-discipline, but also to increase non-payment of tax liabilities. These are the basic reasons why the Government, of course, opposes such a proposal contained in this amendment to the Committee and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the original proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 2 and let us vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members. 23 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please! There are 46 Members and Members present. 39 for, against 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 3. An amendment. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm concluding. Let's vote! There's more of us in the hall. Please let's vote another time! Let's vote, please! I'm sorry to vote like this. There's nothing I can do but set a 10-minute break. We'll pick it up at 4:17.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u122	Please take your seats so we can proceed with the meeting. Once again, I ask Members and Members to take their seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 for, 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, 39 for, against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] Article 3 was adopted. We are moving on to Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 43 for, 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, 39 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] Article 5 was adopted. We're moving on to Article 7. We will first vote on the amendment to Article 7, Blaž Kavčič. Anybody want to talk? The couch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you. The amendment is purely, logically, editorial in nature. By adopting this amendment, we will achieve that the law will fully enter into force with effect from 1 January 2002, and Article 4 of this Law will enter into force on 1 July 2002. In order for the validity and the different time limits of these two elements to be fully clear, this amendment must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We vote, please, on the amendment to the amendment. There are 45 present. Attention, please. We're voting again, second time. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 39, against one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment was accepted. We are also voting on the basic amendment to Article 7. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; as the article has been amended, there is no need for a full vote on the article. We have discussed the amendments tabled and are moving on to the discussion on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, 38 for, one for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the title of the law. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 43, one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 5 and 7 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Please, Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of qualified candidates, I ask you for a 15-minute recess to submit an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. I have a suggestion that we may move on to the next point, point 5, and that we may table an amendment in the meantime. So, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligation of Slovenian railways, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Yes, please. Here you are, Mr. Kuchar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u127	Your Honor! The reason for the issue of the Act on the takeover of Slovenian Iron Bonds is the fulfilment of Protocol No. 2 signed by the Republic of Slovenia with the European Union on the Association Agreement. This Protocol prohibits the granting of aid to steel in the Republic of Slovenia after 1.1.2002. What is the situation prior to the adoption of this law in relation to the Republic of Slovenia or the State and the Slovenian ironworks? The country is married to the obligations of Slovenian ironworks of 38.7 billion Slovenian tolars. In particular, for obligations arising from the issuance of the Slovenian ironworks bonds and for obligations acquired by the Slovenian ironworks by the rental of short-term loans for operating assets. The country pays or serviced interest on bonds of approximately 2 billion Slovenian tolars per year. Since this is a matter of aid, so servicing these interest rates is treated as aid, and since this aid is no longer possible after 1.1., the Slovenian ironworks cannot service these obligations alone, it is the only way to abolish this aid, so that the obligations for which we were married so far are taken into account in the direct obligation of the State. What effect will it have when this law is passed? The country will be in debt for 29.2 billion Slovenian tolars, which is 9.5 billion less than it is now married. For these 9.5 billion tolars, the country should pay Western guarantees in December, which is the end of this year. Therefore, to pay all 9.5 billion for which the marriage is to the banks of creditors and for this amount the commitment is reduced. These 9.5 billion will not be redeemed for two reasons: for the first time, for about 5 billion of this amount, business banks have agreed that instead of the State guarantee, these loans, which will continue to exist, will be secured on the assets of the Slovenian Ironworks; and for the second time, for 4.5 billion - this is, in contrast to 9 - an apartment fund is activated as the assets of the Slovenian Ironworks, which the Housing Fund will cash in so that these apartments will be sold in the coming years, and the purchases for these apartments will be received immediately by the Slovenian ironworks and with this purchase will pay the liabilities at the same level as the purchase. I would like to point out two things in the end. According to the content, the debt of the country does not really change. The fact that the State was married at the first call and that the Slovenian ironworks did not service these obligations practically meant that the State had paid these obligations, and would also have paid them. So the debt becomes more transparent and directly shifts into the country's competence, but by content and by size it does not change, except by size it will be smaller by 9.5 billion after the adoption of this law and in fact the state is in the way I said earlier, part of the privatisation effect has already been realized. Indeed, the State has virtually the only resource to pay the commitments it would have undertaken at this level, the source being the privatisation purchase from which the banks will be paid for that amount when the purchase takes place. Our assessment is that this will also accelerate the privatisation processes that are being launched and these hippies are going on intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u128	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u130	Yes, we do now, of course we do. I allocate five minutes of rest - 16.38.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u131	Ambassadors and Members, please take your seats. We continue with the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks, a rapid procedure. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Before that, I'm going to ask you to find out if there's a presence in the hall. Members and Members, please join us. Let's wait a few more moments. We're rediscovering the concoction. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 46 Members and Members present; we are final and we can continue our work. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The word is given by the chairman of the committee of Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues and government representatives! The fact that this is a very important issue already suggests that the Committee initiated the consideration of the proposed law at its meeting on 15 November and that a number of issues were raised in that part of the debate and that some additional material was required on the problem of the resolution or rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks themselves. In this regard, the Committee requested the following documents, namely the report on the recovery of the Slovenian ironworks from 1991 to 2000, with annexes, the reply to the opinion of the State-Court of Law and Legal Affairs Secretariat, the table of payments of the Republic of Slovenia on the cash guarantees for bonds - this is the interest on LBS New York bonds and credit in the period 1993–2001 - the table of short-term credit obligations of the Slovenian iron undertakings secured by the guarantee of the State, the table of obligations of the Slovenian ironworks to be assumed by the State under the law, the repayment plan for the Slovenian ironworks bonds for which the Republic of Slovenia has given the guarantee, then the explanation of the checks relating to the collection of the debt under the proposed Act on the takeover of the obligations of Slovenia and the additional documentation relating to individual issues. The first point below, on 5 December, raised some additional questions by individual members of the Committee, specifically highlighting a possible error in the calculation of the percentage of loss in basic capital on the basis of the table presented and expressing the opinion that, in particular, in natural disasters, the allocation of significantly lower resources than was allocated to facilitate development in economic areas, including in the field of iron industry, or the proportion of money for regional incentives, has gone from this title to individual provinces. Another time. In view of the financial complexity of the proposed project for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, where there are billions and 80 million German brands of financial exposures by 2023, the response of government representatives would be placed, in particular in terms of the cost-effectiveness of such decisions. In particular, the interdepartmental component of the impact assessment carried out by the Act was highlighted, taking into account, or in exceptional terms, both for Slovenian steel and for the consistent development of the whole economy, in particular with regard to the major obligations envisaged for the State and to avoid possible different interpretations after the adoption of the legislative text. A specific question was also raised to the Government as to how many jobs have been maintained in terms of ensuring coherent regional development and whether, due to the envisaged obligation, the basic programme of the Slovenian Housing Fund or how much of the commitments undertaken by the State from the past will not suffer from the underlying programme of the Slovenian Housing Fund or the share of the commitments undertaken by the State in the light of the value of the social property assessment. The question was also raised as to the extent to which Articles 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenski Ironworks were implemented, in particular the position of the conversion of shares for commercial parts in the companies of the authorised companies. Following the discussion at the 2nd meeting, yesterday, answers were given to some of the questions listed above, although it was clear from these that all questions were not answered satisfactorily, which is also understandable in terms of the risk of the whole deal. Fortunately, we have come to this debate on the Committee so far that the government has managed, in this interim period of one month, to amend only the content of the law and extend this content to some of the obligations of the past that were not mentioned in the basic text of the law, which is also to say that there has probably been a lack of coordinated action between the various departments in the previous phase. As a result, the Committee was unable to prepare a final report on the examination itself or on the decisions on the amendments proposed by the Government in this procedure. After a rather extensive discussion, the Committee then supported all the amendments of the Government and drafted some of its amendments, notably the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, in order to clarify the specific provisions of the legislative text. On behalf of the Committee, I propose that the assembly, after consideration under the rapid procedure, support the amendments of the Government and the amendments of the Committee to that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the time of the consideration of the proposed law on the working body, the Secretariat drew attention, both at the first and second sessions, to the legal dispute of the proposed solutions offered by the proposer with his amendments, to the solution proposed for the completion of Article 4(1), to the amendments proposed by the proposer on 8.11. this year and to the dispute of the solutions proposed for the new Article 7 contained in the proposed amendments by the proposer, which were offered on 17.12. With regard to the first proposed supplement, i.e. the additions to Article 4(1), which, by contrast, refers to the way in which the purchase is spent, which is made available when the subsidiaries are sold in the system of Slovenian ironworks, and in this context it is also intended to cover the subsidiaries operating the housing fund, and these companies are to be sold to the housing fund. This solution, in its basic concept, is, according to our assessment, legally controversial if we take into account the law on public funds, both in terms of activities, the continued use of the intended assets and the possibility of borrowing, taking into account the status of the housing fund as a real estate fund. With regard to the proposed addition to the new Article 7, we assess that these solutions are essentially not cleared. The first paragraph is particularly controversial from the point of view of the law governing the guarantee and maintenance fund. However, within the proposed solutions in this article, we believe that these solutions are not clear among themselves, particularly in the light of the proposed solution to paragraph 1 and paragraph 4. In view of these solutions, we believe that it is necessary to make it absolutely clear that this is an envisaged programmed solution, namely the bankruptcy of these disabled companies, which were, of course, firstly programmed, but that what was not found, of course, the appropriate solutions or answers regarding the rescue of disabled persons and possibly some other workers have not been found. We are reminding again of these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, LDS, applied in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u136	Your Honor! Allow me to present the opinion of the LDS Group and the reasons for the decision taken by the Group to adopt the bill together with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the amendments of the Committee to this Act. As already stated by the proposer, in accordance with the obligation under Protocol II to the Association Agreement and in accordance with the adopted steel restructuring programme in Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to adopt a law setting out the extent and manner of taking on the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks d.d. by the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore in time moved the cessation of all forms of State aid to the Slovenian ironworks on 31.12.2001. European rules on State aid in steel are very strict. The European Coal and Steel Agreement allows the adoption of specific, time-limited rules, which are considered State aid as State aid measures, which relate to aid in the privatisation of state assets, assistance in the dismissal of employees, etc. The measures taken by the State in the steel restructuring programme in the past and by 31.12.2001 are considered State aid, after that date state aid is no longer allowed. The process of repairing steel industry dates back to the 1990s, when the Slovenian steel industry experienced one of the biggest crises. In addition to the loss of the market and claims in the republics of the former countries by Slovenian ironworks, credits with which large investments were financed at the end of the 1980s also began to decline during this period. The indebtedness of companies in the system of Slovenian ironworks has increased and caused major business disruptions and has also endangered banks and financial stability in Slovenia. Ironworks, which then employed 14,000 people, caused the loss of the developmental power of these regions in the region of Goran, Koroška and Savino, where it was the only provider of economic power, and the increase in unemployment. As a result of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided, on the basis of a series of analyses, that on the basis of Western European samples - maintenance, rehabilitation, privatisation - approaches to the resolution of Slovenian steel industry and its ability to perform in foreign markets. In 1991 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so supported the Slovenian ironworks, d.d. The recoverys were based on the following bases: financial, human resources, technical and technical and commercial recovery. The Republic of Slovenia played a key role in the process of the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks, which allowed the obligation of Slovenian ironworks to banks, public companies and countries to be covered. The legal basis for granting State aid was the laws which, by adopting the law before us, cease to apply. The report on the implementation of the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks in the period 1991-2000 shows that the amount of State aid, taking into account the period until 2022, is around 1,023 million German brands, and that the results of the rehabilitation are as follows: the system of Slovenian ironworks has restructured itself in the direction of production of special and more demanding products; most companies show the ability to achieve the survival criteria under European Union standards and the system employs 4,758 people today, including employees in privatised activities and companies together around 7,000 people. The current recovery shows the static nature of these, since only a small part of the funds used for investment or recapitalisation and a large majority for the rehabilitation of creditors. The system of Slovenian ironworks is thus still burdened by the 1991-1992 obligations of the unresolved issue of disabled persons, which is in the system of 690 and 14.8% of all employees, which strongly exceeds the Slovenian average. The solution to these problems is one of the basic conditions for achieving the objectives set out in the Slovenian steel restructuring programme. The purpose of the Act on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks, which is, in fact, the implementing act of the steel restructuring programme, is to regulate legally the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks d.d. by the Republic of Slovenia. In its content, it partly formalises the measures proposed in the programme, which constitute an essential basis for the successful completion of financial and human resources restructuring, and establishes conditions for rapid privatisation. The implementation of the restructuring programme is crucial for the future operation of steel in the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the process of involving the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, the last possible comprehensive national measure is to establish the basis for an equal market performance of Slovenian business entities in this field. Without the adoption of the law that is before us today, the system of the Slovenian Ironworks would be put in a position where, due to solidarity commitments, it would also push into illiquidity and bankruptcy the active companies of the system, including the nuclear companies that are carriers of steel in Slovenia. In such a situation, the Republic of Slovenia would continue to increase its claims to the Slovenian ironworks through the payment of the already established guarantee obligations, while increasing its social security obligations. As a result of the commitment of 31.12.2001, the Republic of Slovenia would lose the opportunity to intervene in further developments in this activity as undoubtedly one of the strategically important and traditional Slovenian economic activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you. Does he wish to present his opinion to any other representative of the parliamentary group? Mr. Kelemina, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All of you! All of you! All of you! The Group of the Social Democratic Party notes that in this case the government has again somehow or somehow served the system of blackmail. In fact, the bill will be sent to the National Assembly just before the end of the year or just before the deadline by which it notes that a proposal for a law is necessary to be adopted, because otherwise, if it does not happen, such and such consequences, or rather than the problem of a certain work or some 27 billion obligations, will exceed 30 billion and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u139	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u140	In short, very interesting explanations. And once again, we are protesting the speedy process and the blackmail in such a way that the bill is sent to the National Assembly at the last minute in order to force the adoption of the bill. Here, I must absolutely protest on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members in the very way of enacting this law. In particular, the drafter of this law, the government, stated in the draft law what, of course, the discussion later confirmed, the extremely weak data and, of course, the explanation, if we do not want to burden Members too much with certain data, which is what you accept this proposal to assume the 27 billion obligations, as much as necessary and that the matter will be put under the carpet as soon as possible. Then, of course, at the meeting itself, what has already been said is that things need to be clarified and then we have found in four follow-up that the government has not answered many questions. There were no simple answers. I am surprised at how the committee could then conclude this debate, and I hope that today, of course, there will be a number of questions to be answered in the debate. In all of this, of course, we are also wondering how it is possible for such huge funds to have occurred, the ones that have been set aside. In fact, I think Mr Kušar said that I have here a magnetogram to take over Slovenia's 248 billion liabilities under the issued bonds of the Slovenian Ironworks, which have an interest rate: the German brand + 8%. When a man sees a number, all he can do is turn around. In fact, we have always found that in the state budget we are sometimes discussing 10 million, 20 million, how to deploy more to an emergency area to build or upgrade a piece of a healthcare center or kindergarten or school, and here the country is taking over 248 billion with just its left hand. We hope, of course, that we will have an answer to what is covered in these 248 billion. We didn't get that answer exactly, as I recall. We must absolutely stress here that in this process of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks and these obligations which the state has assumed did not concern the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks as such in 1992, but it was about the rehabilitation of banks, the obligations that the Slovenian ironworks caused, of course, by certain investments, etc. One wonders how it can be that the market price of all these objects today is around 9 billion or even expected to be less - I don't know if it's only 80% of the sales here. However, very little value, today's market, has been invested in total hundreds of billions of funds over the last 10, 20 years. And of course today, banks that have also taken over these bonds with such a favourable interest rate that provides huge profits, in private hands and with this profit, with large capital they can buy other companies, do takeovers, and so on, in short, there is a lot of privatisation, and of course all at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. All these things that we are taking over today and which we will take over at the expense of Slovenian ironworks will go into public debt, as presented, and all of this will be paid by our children - how, of course, is a great question. Of course, now they remembered that it would be wise to cover these things up somehow, and they started gagging on social notes, on working rights, on people with disabilities, and so on. Our party, the Social Democratic Party, must be extremely supportive of programmes that will somehow mitigate these consequences in these working layers, if you say so, disabled people, the consequences of all this privatisation and all these obligations that are on these ironworks. We certainly support this, but it is now kind of a major issue that no one would accidentally oppose the adoption of this law, so that we can solve some social problems. In short, extremely smart or good strategies in this area, but it is regrettable to say that we, our workers and our children will pay for all these obligations ourselves. Here the question is always asked, and only one, if I am not mistaken, has not asked the whole debate the question of responsibility, who is the one who has approved all these funds, who is the one who has signed these documents and who has ordered them. No one said that, and it would be wise to answer those questions. Indeed, we firmly believe that even today those people who have made such drastic moves and have harmed Slovenian society for tens of billions of dollars still hold important jobs and are still making decisions in the negative direction for Slovenia and for the Slovenian benefits, we are firmly convinced. And it would be wise for these people to write, discover, expose, and never again occupy any important places, just as it has been, and probably is still happening today. This case is certainly one of those who would be very suitable for an investigative commission to explore the background and the reasons why such great obligations and debts have occurred in the final stage of the Slovenian state. We have also proposed some amendments that I hope they will be accepted, because they are very positive and positive in solving certain issues in order to reduce these interest rates, that if the country assumes these obligations, there is some possibility, some right to remedy the damage that has been caused in the most appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you. Does he wish to present his views to any other parliamentary group? Please, Dr. Bernick. On behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the government! I'll be very brief. The law interferes with extremely sensitive matter and it would take hours and hours, as we did on the Finance Committee, to break things down that are wrong with this thing. I would say that this bill is somehow a story of success or failure. Indeed, the story of the government's success that it first brought this law or bill so late into the National Assembly and that we must adopt it by 1 January, because otherwise we would have been in breach of the European Union's requirements. Of course, we have seen this for a long time, and it was not necessary to stall as it was. It also falls into this law a kind of, say, cases that would be great, and even the background of the Slovenian ironworks, which would be extremely suitable for study, "case studio", if you want to in English, in business schools, because this could really be handled by students and you could see everything that was wrong in the long period of the Slovenian ironworks. And perhaps one of these students would come a day with a better solution than our government. We will not vote in New Slovenia for this law. I didn't vote on the Finance Committee myself. And that's quite simple because I think the solutions could be different than they are. In fact, if we are looking at the Slovenian ironworks and the history of these companies, we can say that the Slovenian ironworks were a parade horse in the past network. This was at a time when all over the world it was known that the iron industry was coming into a major crisis. And in fact, it was not necessary to be particularly pervasive, unless a man had glasses with political colors that would happen. And it actually happened all over the world, and it's still happening. I think we should have predicted what would happen years ago. In fact, if a person looked at how much the government invested, or the Slovenian authorities had invested in the Slovenian ironworks from the beginning, he would probably have reached the huge numbers. However, the question is whether these numbers are available. We therefore have bad numbers for the years 1992 to today. Well, if we are talking about the present, we could say that the state wants to reintroduce to Slovenian citizens the obligation of the Slovenian ironworks. If we look at the numbers, we will see that the country has invested 409 million German marks between 1992 and this year, but under this law it is expected to assume the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks, which are 680 million German brands, totalling one billion 89 million German marks. Despite the fact that the government wants to keep some companies and rescue them, it is still a question of whether these companies will be able to do what the market, the market economy and the market economy require of them in the countries to which we export. In fact, there is no good answer here, especially since all forecasts are extremely optimistic, as is usually the case with national forecasts. Because if it were private companies, it would probably be a lot more pessimistic than they really are. Well, I won't go too far into this thing anymore, but I would point out a few things, as has already been said on the Finance Committee, that the government has repeatedly discriminated by supporting the Slovenian ironworks throughout the long decades, by discriminating the finished regions, the other regions, and by favouring the main three or four. Well, we can ask ourselves what came out of this, how many of these regions have really received and how many other regions have lost, and I think that one of the members of the committee has been very good at talking about this thing, let's say what the Court has been waiting for a long year, or for a year or more, to arrange for what has caused natural disasters. Of course, the government also expects to gain some counterweight by selling some companies. Of course, this is also always questionable, especially today, when the economy is slowing down in other countries as well, and the question is how much what the state is counting on to get out of this sale is actually going to happen. When a person thinks about all the people who work there, he kind of goes to his heart. Of course, it is very nice to speak, but one would think that in this industry and what the government intends to do with this industry or with what is left of this industry, it would be more likely to use this money to give these people a good pension and to provide others with a requalification for the sectors that prosper today. I don't know if the government has thought about this, but I should think about it, because I'm afraid that not so far into the future will probably have to deal with it and watch how we help these people. Well, as far as initial investment in Slovenian ironworks is concerned this decade. As I understand it, the government has tried to save the banks and has saved them well, which is nice and right, but these banks have been fairly and well lined up on the interest paid by these bonds, and this will continue for quite some time. What can I say? Although this law has an extremely complicated material or industry, it seems to me that man cannot support all the responsibility of this law, since it is certainly not the only option the government has had, and the government could have foreseen other options in more than one year, but not that this national assembly is now on its own to vote on such a controversial proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? I don't know if Mr. Kelemina is just on behalf of the Group of Members or even as an individual? Here you go. Mr. Kelemina has applied in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I probably won't need much time, but I do want answers to certain questions, and I hope there will be more. I'd like to ask you the following questions, and I hope I get an answer. The authorities, the government, certainly, have known this situation for some time since these basic laws were passed, and it is clear from this data, as well as from the state budgets, that we have paid about 2 billion interest a year, if I am not mistaken, that is to say, respected government representatives. I'm curious, you knew that every year two billion money goes to these privately owned banks with huge interest rates, and you haven't done anything in all these years, or say what you've done, why you didn't act before, why you didn't come to the National Assembly earlier with a proposal to lower these interest rates, etc. on the basis of a normal interest rate or a European interest rate. Why did you leave us in fact in these years - tell us how many billions were involved in these interest rates. That went through 10 billion after my assessment, maybe 16, I don't know. Tell us how much money has been invested in this title during these years and why you have not acted before. That's the first question. Then there's another question. How and when are we actually going to fix all these obligations? You did not answer this question in all the debate on the Committee. When will all the obligations under this heading actually be assumed by the Slovenian Ironworks and when will this end and how long will it be for us now that we take up these obligations that are now, is this the end of all obligations? Now you're saying out there that if we take over this 27 billion, that this is the end, we're just going to have to take over 38 billion. So, tell me now, try to answer that question. What is going to happen now in the coming years, so that all the obligations under the Slovenian Ironworks will then be paid and that public debt will no longer be owed or the state budget or whatever? Then I would ask, of course, if you can answer, if you have this information possible. Who then led these institutions and who approved all these loans and who ordered these transactions, who signed these documents? If that's possible, I'd ask those names to be told here today. That's all that's possible for a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u145	Do any other Members want to discuss it? Otherwise, no one else has applied in writing, so I limit the debate to five minutes. [[He doesn't want to.]] Is there a government representative who wants to answer? Please, Secretary of State Kuchar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that the economic essence of this law is that this country saves 9.5 billion. The point is not that we are taking on the obligations that this country has had, in any case as a marriage, not as a primary debtor, but had and should, of course, have paid them as a marriage. This law reduces direct public debt by 9.5 billion. This is, in our view, the quality of this law. This is also why I can comment on the previous question or comment on why the law has moved so far towards the end of the year and why we have not adopted it before. The basic proposal of the law contained the idea of taking on all obligations. We have spent quite some time with banks to agree that instead of state guarantees, they will seek adequate collateral on the hardware of the ironworks and that we have set aside a complex that we call three housing companies that will be used to pay off these debts. We've been doing this intensely in the last four months. A concrete answer to the question of how much money was involved in interest and why the government had not acted before. During the period 1993 to 2001, the Republic of Slovenia paid interest on the issued bonds of the Slovenski Ironworks amounting to 150 million German brands. Interest on other titles amounts to interest on a long-term loan of 53 million mark. This was the money that has been paid so far under these commitments that the state is now taking over. Why didn't the state react before? It is true that the bonds issued are very beneficial for the creditor and, of course, unfavourable for the debtor, since the interest on the brand, today 8%, is very favourable. One of the purposes for the State to assume its obligations directly as a issuer was, of course, to repay this obligation as its original debtor. By leasing credit on more favourable terms and thus, of course, reducing the cost of servicing. As long as the State is not in possession of these obligations, it cannot, of course, pay them. Nor can he pay them unilaterally by making his own decision about early payment. The only point behind such payment is article 7a of the law on - I cannot find the name of the law - which says that the Republic of Slovenia has such a right. The fact is that this right has been more legalized - this does not mean that bonds with all rights and obligations have been issued. Therefore, the validity of the legal basis that we have in this article of the law is relatively weak, but it does exist, so we also propose that it be maintained further and not as it is now proposed to be deleted. When the government becomes the owner of this debt, it will try to take advantage of this Article 7a by requiring early repayment, with, of course, the legal limits that I have stated. When will the government finally repair all obligations? The government will no longer have any obligations to the Slovenian ironworks following the commitment made by the law it is now taking up in the debate. Who approved the loans? All loans or guarantees, so far, have been securities issued by the hardware industry itself, or short-term loans, all guarantees have a legal basis and have been adopted by Parliament in different years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thanks for the explanation. Look. In the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for bonds issued for the purpose of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, which you wanted to mention, you did not find at the moment, except for this 7a article or this 7a article, which you say was adopted later, this law was of course from 1992, then there was some change 1997 and 2000, if I am not mistaken - this is what it says here. Although I don't know that he was, you're saying that the 7th article was adopted later. I don't know, it's not my fault he was accepted later. Why didn’t you study these things earlier, why didn’t you already realize in 1994 that there was something to be done in this area and that you would have started to solve these things by then? Why not? From 1992 onward, why has it been allowed to go from 22 billion to more than 22 billion, possibly tolars, for interest? It's actually almost that capital. During these seven years, it actually went almost 100%, if 27 billion were issued or we have data here, 27 billion, that is to say almost as much as the principal in these years, it was already interest. And now, by the year in which years are foreseen here, the bonds have been issued for a period of 30 years. That's what I'd say if this went on, we'd be paying enormous amounts. Interest and then otherwise, at some point, it's settled. [[...]] But why didn't this happen before? I don't know if you can tell me when article 7a was adopted, which novel. Or in 1997 or barely in 2000. I don't know, you must know this because you were preparing these documents. And why, of course, it wasn't already adopted in 1994. Of course, you also wisely avoid answering questions about who are the ones who have just approved these loans. Look, the banks were lending credits based on what documents and what positions they could have approved so high credits years ago if these things weren't insured at the time, and they didn't know who was going to pay them back and how they were going to be returned. How was it possible to act so irresponsibly? Of course, that was political. That's how I can build. You know, I can build if someone just lends me 20, 50, 100 billion, and I can go into big investments and open thousands and thousands of jobs, thousands and thousands of people I'll hire. The question is whether this will be productive if I repay these obligations created by this. In this way, it is not a problem to open jobs, but to fasten your breasts and medals. That's a fact. That is a fact, and in this way we have maintained this country and built it. Now we have to pay for these things. That's absurd. That's how it's done today. Even today, it is done that some receive huge tens of billions of interest and are building because it is a political directive. Even today. Let's hope, of course, this can all go down, too. In the final phase, if these companies are not successful, this can fall once again on the shoulders of taxpayers. It seems extremely irresponsible to me that someone can grant loans, so there is no guarantee. Why were these guarantees not so written at the time, that if some banks had given credit to an institution, they would also have a guarantee to return. Has the State, Yugoslavia, or any of them already guaranteed these loans? I don't know that now. Because we assumed these obligations by these laws in 1992 and so on. If you can answer any more of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Kuchar, would you like to answer these questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. No, not that I don't want to, I'll try. I tried to answer earlier why such a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for bonds was passed in 1997 or, sorry, in 1992, for the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks. I cannot comment on why it was adopted as it was, I would just like to add the information that I had not previously been able to add that this additional option for a possible redemption was adopted in 1997, saying, five years later, after the original securities were issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.12.2001. In the debate and decision-making I am putting forward Article 1, which is not included in the amendment review, is contained in the basic proposal for a law. As no amendment has been tabled, I am putting Article 1 into the debate and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 1 in full. We're voting. The presence shown to us by the screen is 39. I think it does not show the situation in the Chamber, there is more of us in the Chamber, so I ask for attention, and I invite my fellow Members nearby to join us because we are in the second reading of the bill and we are in the voting phase. Secondly, I shall put to the vote Article 1 in full. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. In Article 2, three amendments were tabled under order number 1, the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia, which is linked to the amendment of the same motion for a new Article 2.a; if adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. Under order number two of the amendments to Article 2, the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and, under three, the amendment of the Government, which is not supported by the parent working body, note that the solution proposed by the Government is summarised in the proposed text of the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. All three proposals for amendments to Article 2 shall be put to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 36. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since it is linked to the amendment of the same proposer for a new Article 2a, it also makes it irrelevant, that is, on the page of the two reviews for a new Article 2.a. We are voting on the amendment under order number two to Article 2. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number three, which, as I said, is summarized in the next amendment. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 33. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under three has not been accepted. We're on page three. Yeah, 2nd whole. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 45 of us present. I think there's more of us, so I'd like some attention. The second time we will vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. As the second time we have not carried out a valid vote on Article 2 in full, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. We continue at 17.52 the third time we vote on Article 2 in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since we are about to vote on Article 2 in full for the third time, and thus indirectly to determine the presence of the Chamber, I ask your attention. Thank you very much. This is the third time we have voted on Article 2 in full. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. The amendment to the new Article 2a is irrelevant. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Now, of course, I would like a very professional explanation on the basis of which Article 2nd has now become irrelevant. I see absolutely no reason for this and I would ask for a thorough explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u154	Dear Mr Kelemina, the reason that the amendment for Article 2a is irrelevant is that, as has already been explained, the first amendment of which was proposed by the SDS and New Slovenia Group to Article 2 has not been adopted and since the amendment was adopted under order number 2 of which the Committee is the proposer. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for a professional job, Mrs. Ogrinc, if you'll help us with that. I think my interpretation is correct. Here you go, Mrs. Ogrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. In fact, according to our assessment, by adopting the amended third paragraph of Article 2, it has become 2.a, the proposal for Article 2a, irrelevant. I mean, why? As it is now stated in the third paragraph that the Republic of Slovenia assumes obligations by issuing its bonds, of course it will issue bonds under these conditions, as issued by Slovenian ironworks and not under other conditions. The only additional solution is that the Republic of Slovenia has the option to buy these bonds prematurely, but under the general conditions applicable to such relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina, if you think so, you must, however, accept the assessment by the Chair and the representative of the Secretariat regarding the legal interpretation of the amendments tabled. Coming through, we're on page three of the amendment review. Three amendments were tabled under Article 3. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the vote on amendments under points 2 and 3 is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. The text of Article 3 is thus completely amended and the vote on amendments under Article 2 and 3 is irrelevant. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the four amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. With the footnote, if the amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. Article 4 is thus amended and the vote on amendments under 2, 3 and 4 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment for a new Article 4a, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. His mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 11. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 5. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you, Madam President. A respected choir! In view of the content and correct placement of the two amendments, which are now "amendment for a new Article 6" and "amendment for a new Article 7", I propose to amend the terms in "amendment for a new Article 4b" and "amendment for a new Article 4c". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In view of the correction of the Secretary of State, Mr Trček, we are therefore passing the amendment to the new Article 6, which is now an amendment to the new Article 4.b. [[...]] That's what I'm putting to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes to 9. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the amendment to the new Article 4b has been adopted. In the review on page 8, the amendment for a new Article 7 which, following the correction of the applicants, we hereby appoint an amendment for a new Article 4c, the proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to page 7 of the review where the amendment to Article 5 is located. I shall put Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5 in the debate and decision-making process, of which the Finance Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kuchar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out that the Government's proposal has been turned over from the proposal made by the home committee, namely that the text, as stated here, should be retained and not deleted. We are talking about article 7a of the Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for bonds issued for the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks. This 7.a Article allows the Republic of Slovenia to purchase bonds issued by Slovenian ironworks at any time prior to their arrival. We estimate that the option of early payment of bonds is the characteristic of the securities obtained by this paper under Article 7a and, irrespective of its legal quality, it is appropriate that this Article 7a of the Act, which otherwise ceases to apply by the adoption of today's law, is maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Ogrinchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, as the secretariat has pointed out, given the basic solution proposed by the proposer for amendment to Article 5, I must reiterate that this Article 7a is incorporated into the text of the Republic of Slovenia guarantee for the issue of the bonds of the Slovenian ironworks for the repair of those bonds. In short, it is the role of the state as a marriage in these relations. Slovenian iron and steel companies are bond issuers. And this option, which is given for early redemption under certain conditions, as provided for in Article 7a, this option is given to the State as a wedding and the bonds have been issued by the Slovenian ironworks. With the amendment, we have here in the second article, that is to say that the Republic of Slovenia enters into this relationship, as the issuer of bonds, of new bonds to take over this debt. We cannot maintain this first and third paragraphs of Article 7a, any way that this solution would be very welcome for the implementation of the other provisions of Article 2 or for the implementation of the manner in which these bonds may be purchased from the current holders. So, of course, a similar solution or just such a solution would be possible in the third paragraph of Article 2. So, there would be no doubt about it, but it is not possible, as I said, to preserve with a new solution, as we have it, a solution to the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. We're voting. There are 41 present. I think there's more of us in the hall. This is the last amendment, so I'd like to have your attention. We decide on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. We'll vote next time. The second vote was not successful either. I'm pulling the plug for 10 minutes. We're moving on at 6.17. The deal was Wednesday and Thursday we'll be working until 7:00. Thank you very much. There's 60 of us in the hall, just for the intermezza, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u163	I ask for attention because we will vote for the third time on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to Article 5 and will therefore indirectly establish the presence in the Chamber. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 12. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 7. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We still need to make a decision and a debate on Article 6 which is not an amendment, so it is not in the review, and the period of validity of the law is set the day after the publication of the Official Journal. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 5. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Article 6 is fully adopted. The review also contains an amendment to the title of the law. We are therefore moving on to the debate on the amendment to the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment to the title of the law has been adopted and thus the title of the law has been completely amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 4a, 4.b, 4.b, 4.b, 4.c, 5 and to the title of the law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would procedurally suggest that we take an hour off to prepare the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u165	At the proposal of the Qualified Amendment, you will be preparing, so it is probably wise to stop the treatment and continue work tomorrow at this stage, with the next item on the agenda. [[...]] We have another half hour, or we can complete a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prescribed interest rate at that time. Therefore, on a proposal from the Socialist Party's Group of Members, which has applied as a qualified candidate, has notified that, in the third reading of the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of Slovenian ironworks, I am putting an end to this amendment. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. And we're going through or we're going back to 4. OF THE DAY, IN THE THIRD CONSTRUCTION, where four parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS+SKD Slovenian People's Party and the DeSUS Group tabled an amendment to Article 2. Your amendment is on the bench. It is said, however, that number 12 is replaced by number 13.5. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. I would not personally want to interfere with the work of the National Assembly as such, but in fact it does not deserve anything else, as if it were now to be complicated and I would first repeat for a long and wide time what I have repeated on the Committee or something else, one hour or two, and then take a few hours off before making a decision. But I don't think I'm going to do that, so you won't give me the demagogies and the delays. However, we should do so, given that we have discussed this bill thoroughly on the committee and that Members from various political groups have somehow come to the conclusion that it is correct that the late interest rate is what we have decided there. So 12 points plus a fundamental interest rate. I think that this was sufficiently substantiated in the debate, but of course you are now, because they have pressed on Mr Končar in the government and sent him here to actually perform so vehemently and try to convince the national assembly that this is, of course, totally wrong and that it is necessary to set a high late rate of interest. We have cited a number of arguments on the Finance Committee, including the proposaler, now who has already been there, presented and said that this interest rate, the late interest rate, is likely to be reduced in the coming years and that we will again, perhaps in the second year, make a recast of this law. I even admitted her that way. I don't know if, I mean, I have a magnetogram, I can pull it out. On the basis of this, we have decided that the 15 points increase in the late interest rate will be reduced to 12. Okay, so now you've given 13 and a half, because I thank Mr Puckot for at least a little reduction in the fact that not everything is left, so the government has proposed. But the government is just advocating some action, and those who imagine it, one of the resources that you can imagine and one of the representatives you can imagine, that's the way it should be, and that's the end of it. And everyone else in the government has nothing to say. That's what you do. Instead of harmonising, I cannot understand if a claim, an account is certified, confirmed, undeniable, a panda has money on a giro account or anywhere that can't be paid such an account that someone can refuse such an account, so that they can speculate, but they have, I don't know, maybe billions of profits even, or something like that - when you say speculative capital, that is, too low a late rate of interest for someone to speculate and put money into investments that will have a higher yield and so on. What kind of a country is it that can't make an execution if someone has that kind of money on a jury account? Keep this legislation in order! That's absurd, what you're doing! Those who do not pay themselves, do not get paid, must pay their contributions, must pay all taxes How should they pay them? [[...]] Of course, in some circle, you don't pay the supplier, the other one and so on, and this circle of payers is spinning in a vicious circle. They are also those who may not actually be entitled to some late interest. I think there's about 22.5 or 20.5 of the late interest rate for today's situation is perfectly normal. I don't know if it's the European Community, but you're saying that it doesn't have to be 15 points above a real interest rate or a TOM or whatever it is they already have somewhere with us, it's unrealistic, according to my assessment. We've had almost 28% before, and if that's not off-duty, I don't know what else is off-duty. Sometimes the reasons why no one can pay are, and certainly the one who is a fair craftsman, a good entrepreneur, however, will not struggle now not to pay the obligations that he has, especially to the state; since you do not do so for other things, it is only what you will cash in your cash register. But as it's going to be between entrepreneurs and bankers, you don't care. All you have to do is fill your cash register so you can spend that money and throw it out the window with a shovel. I have data like that when people "carry" me, there's hundreds and hundreds of millions of people who don't even know where they are, and billions! And today we've seen here with Slovenian hardware stores, 22 billion interest rates and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u167	Can you finish, please, Mr. Kelemina?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u168	I told you. Well, wait, I'm talking about a basic interest rate, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u169	It's been five minutes. When considering amendments in the third reading, time shall be limited to five minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u170	Isn't that like general treatment, you said?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u171	No, no, the debate on the amendment to Article 2 in third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u172	That's a general treatment now, isn't it, in third reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u173	No, no. We are now considering an amendment. At the Slovenian hardware store, I asked if anyone wanted to discuss it, and then you asked for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u174	Okay, thank you very much. In short, just to conclude, it is unfair for certain things to be adopted in this national assembly. First come with real data, do not do some false hopes and then take something on the board and then it's completely different. I'm just going to take action in accordance with these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 4. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 2. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and thus I conclude the 4th item of the agenda. We're moving to six. TIME OF DAY - THIRD REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL LEGISLATION ON THE PAYMENT PAYMENT Tax. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The Secretary of State, Mr Končan, in the Ministry of Finance, was just between us. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written submissions to the debate. Because no one wants to, I'm closing the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled, I ask only the representative of the secretariat if the law is mutually coordinated. [[Yes, it ……]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 43 of us present. I think there's more of us in the hall. If anyone is around to join us, because by voting on the law we will be able to complete this item on the agenda as well. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, join us. Secondly, we vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There's 52 of us in the hall. I don't think that's really right. At 6.45 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the agreement, we will make a third vote on the bill in full. The deal was that Wednesday and Thursday he works until 7:00 p.m. At 6.45 p.m., we will vote on the bill as a whole for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we are going to vote on the law in full, so I ask for your attention. This is the third time we have voted on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since there are no candidates, there are no government representatives, I do not think it is right for us to start the 7th item of the agenda. So I'm adjourning the session. We continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks and then the 7th item of the agenda and the orderly course ahead. Thank you so much and good night.
