ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Peter Levič, Dušan Vučko, Leopold Grošelj, Franz Pukšič, Janez Podobnik, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Roberto Battelli, Dr. Miha Brejc, Mario Gasparini, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, Sašo Peče, Dorijan Marsič for the afternoon part of the session, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, Maximilian Lavrinc for the afternoon part of the session and Tsveta Zalokar Orazem. Since we will be able to determine the presence, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're picking up the presence! There are 51 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with a hearing yesterday on the 8th item of the agenda - a proposal by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; then the assembly will move on to the consideration of the 15th item - a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative; then to the consideration of the 5th item - a proposal for a law on road transport; then the assembly will move on to the consideration of the 16th item - a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on fire protection; and in order to proceed. Your Honor! Allow me to inform you that, at today's meeting, the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly have agreed unanimously: to conclude the 7th regular meeting before the beginning of the 8th meeting; to continue the 7th regular meeting also in the coming week, on Wednesday and Thursday, 4 and 5 July from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and on Friday, 6 July between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Tuesday, 3 July, will be devoted to the meetings of the home working bodies. If the national assembly is not yet concluded on 7th meeting until 6 July, the possibility of the meeting continuing during the week between 10 and 13 July or on Tuesday 17 July when the 8th meeting of the State Assembly is scheduled to begin will be considered. The College of the President of the National Assembly, which is scheduled to be convened on Tuesday 10 July, will decide whether to convene an 8th meeting of the National Assembly and, if so, which agenda items should be included in it. The presidents of the national working bodies will be invited by the President of the National Assembly to adapt the references of the working bodies to the decision on Tuesday 3 July 2001. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We are on page 11 of the review of the amendments to the proposal of the Member of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is 8. It's a day's work. At yesterday's session, we concluded the debate on Article 70 and the four amendments to this Article. Let me repeat: the amendment under number 1 of which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members; the amendment which is on the special sheet and which is not under review is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, which is identical to the amendment under order number 1. We will decide on both at the same time; under number 2, there is an amendment of three parliamentary groups and under the number 3 amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We will decide on these amendments, first of all on the amendment under order number 1 and thus on the identical amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 22 votes against 33. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the amendment under number 1 and the amendment of the Young Slovenia Party to the same Article have not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 42, against 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. Excuse me, I interrupt the vote - the amendment under order number 3 has become irrelevant by adopting the amendment under number 2. We are voting on the whole article. Wait a minute, that's the last result. We are voting on the whole article. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 41 to 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the Procedural Proposal for a Article has not been adopted. [[...]] Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	I propose that we find out what happened to the previous vote, because I am sure that the first vote and the second was not the same, that these were two votes and that this was not the same statement and that we should not repeat these votes in this way. And I suggest we get a copy. I suggest you look at the printouts as correct, and we'll find out. If I'm wrong, it's okay if you guys did something else, and it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I agree with this, I personally had a problem with the inclusion of the voting apparatus and I think it is correct to interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes to check that we may not have voted twice on the same article, which is, of course, unacceptable. I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume at 10.38 a.m. Thank you very much. At 10.28 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the technical services have provided me with three copies of the vote, namely the amendment of three parliamentary groups, where the result was undeniable. This is an amendment that was placed under order number 2 and has been adopted. I then activated the vote on the amendment under order number 3 and after a short period of time, when I found that the vote on this was irrelevant, the vote was suspended. Of course, when using the voting device, I was obliged to press the "stop" button, which I also did, but apparently I activated the device too quickly to complete the vote on the article. The output, which appeared on the screen with results 64, 42, 16 in the form of a vote of Members and the form of such a statement, which exists for all other votes, cannot be obtained by the technical services because it is not available and it was obviously the output that we saw on the screen. It's inexplicable. The technical services can't explain this to me. In view of the fact that I have disputed and, personally, in the use of the technical device, I have clearly overstepped, I am making a procedural proposal to the National Assembly to make absolutely indisputable - this will be my proposal, Mr Anderlič, first of all to my proposal to the National Assembly - that we will indeed undisputedly find a vote on the Article in full, that the National Assembly decides that, due to the technical error of me in the use of the voting apparatus, we will repeat the vote on the Article in full. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	I think it's unacceptable what you just said. I think you have another option, considering you're indisputable. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] It's possible, it's possible. Of course, it's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Here you go, Mr. Anderlich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Me, of course. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Excuse me? You're gonna put me in the paper?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Mr Anderlič, I'm sorry, but you objected to the vote, so I allow you, as a proposaler, to clarify this error in order to explain my decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Look. I think you have an absolutely undeniable opportunity to find out the result that you quoted with 64 present, you mentioned it, and you do not need to go to the vote again, where the result was obviously with different numbers. You have two results, indisputable, on voting on this Article. Surely, you quoted this from your implementation as how much you read on the screen, how many votes were cast in the first vote for the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	Mr. Anderlich, I personally know for myself that I didn't vote and that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	All right, I will make a procedural proposal to give the Liberal Democracy Group a half hour's rest before voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Mr. Anderlich, thank you so much for explaining. Procedural proposal to re-vote due to my technical error, I give to the esteemed assembly a vote or [[...]] I'm adjourning the session in 30 minutes. We'll get back to work at 11.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Your Honor! Please kindly press the "quorum" button to determine the presence. We're picking up the presence! There are 64 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. On a procedural proposal, which I have tabled on the basis of this proposal, the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group requested a recess. Mr. Anderlich, would you like to explain your position? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	When consulted in the group, we found that obviously, even with such brilliant technical arrangements, there could be some solutions that are conditioned by some false pressure or whatever else. And since it is not clear that it is indisputable to determine how it was in this case, we agree to vote on this procedural decision and we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal to repeat the vote on No explanation of vote on procedural proposals, Mr Sok. [[...]] I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. We must first exhaust this procedural proposal. Let's vote! There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes to 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted to fully re-vote Article 70. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Given that I am now announcing myself on behalf of the applicants, given that this is a number of questions, it is obvious how to continue the debate and decision on this act, i.e. on the Rules of Procedure, and also on the basis of the proposals that were made yesterday, and obviously today, we have misinterpreted and decided on these amendments and Article 70 itself, I would like to propose that we end this agenda item and continue it on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	I am putting to the vote on a procedural proposal to end this point and to continue on Wednesday. Let's vote! 66 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes to 13. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal to suspend the consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to continue the consideration of this Act on Wednesday, at 10 a.m., was adopted. I am adjourning the meeting in ten minutes to be joined by representatives of the government in discussing the next act that we have announced, this is a proposal for a law on the referendum and human initiative. We'll continue our work at 11:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Your Honor, we're continuing our adjourned session. I ask you politely to press the "quorum" key because we will determine the presence. We're picking up the presence! There are 51 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiatives - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The assembly held its first hearing on the draft law in the context of the rapid procedure at the 4th meeting and then discontinued the hearing, as the procedure for collecting voters' signatures for the submission of an application for a preliminary legislative referendum on the draft law was initiated. Since the request was not supported by a sufficient number of signatures, the assembly may continue its consideration of the bill. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 90(5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, all substantive decisions relating to this proposal will be taken if two thirds of the present Members vote for them. I would also like to draw your attention to the position of the Parliament's business commission that only Members who have declared their presence before the vote may vote in the case of a two-thirds majority of the Members present. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.3.2001. You also have amendments on the table, whose proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Mirano Porč. I'm sorry. We are conducting a review of the amendments tabled on the basis of a review prepared on 27.6.2001. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the new A1 article, the drafter of which is a group of Members, with the first signed Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. So we have a new A1. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 1 and on the amendment to this article, of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. We have an amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 2, which is not under review and whose proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Mirano Potrce. Then we have under order number 1 in the review of the amendment to the government's amendment, which is not supported by the DeSUS MP's mother's working body. And under 2 we have an amendment to the government's amendment, which is proposed by Majda Zupan. Under 3 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The Group of Members considers it right to assess whether, with regard to the question of referendums, their proposal, their vote on them, their opinion on whether they are justified or not, how satisfied citizens and citizens are that they have to participate in the referendums, the number of signatures that is conditional on an initiative to collect signatures of citizens and citizens from a proposal made by the Government should be increased by a thousand to 2,000. I would like to say - because I had the opportunity to participate in the discussions to date on the content of this law - that in an opinion that was created at the Institute for Comparative Law of the Faculty and in subsequent discussions with experts, we had the view that the most appropriate extent of the required signatures is 5 percent of the later requirement, that is to say 40 thousand, as far as they must be collected, 5 percent, is 2 thousand. At the time, we considered that perhaps this would be too much to say, given the situation at hand, now, given the situation as it is, the group estimates that it would be good to think about these things. There is no doubt that we all find once and for all that the referendum regime requires a serious assessment. We find this for a while, unfortunately we are not able to find the right strength and common arrangements to solve things. Some of the obstacles to this are certainly in constitutional order, and therefore it is also one of the ideas that the Constitution should also be assessed in this respect, whether and how many changes are required. I hope, however, that there are also some obstacles to the fact that there is no political agreement necessary. In doing so, I ask and propose that we try, as far as possible, to assess all Members and Members, what an over-responsible path to decide at the referendum means for the role of the national assembly, what it means to request that relatively often referendums, what it means, after all, also for the quality of decisions taken, which are formally undeniablely true, because even if one comes to the electorate and votes in favour, its decision is formal law. Of course, the question is whether they are truly clever enough, especially when it comes to questions that are often too demanding in their content to decide. Finally, we thought it was right that the idea of increasing the number of signatures should also be noted in this law for the reason that the law on the referendum between the first and second readings was terminated for two months on the basis of such an initiative. On the basis of the initiative, which was fully legal, more than 200 signatures were collected for it and, later, it collected 74 registered signatures through signatures on administrative units. At the very least, we can say that the initiators, the signatories - I mean not the signatories, but the organizers of signature gatherings - did not have a genuine desire to do any activity for this, or their initiative was inadequate in content and people do not find it problematic that the number of signatures required for the referendum, the referendum initiative, should be increased. And if this is the second true, then thinking about increasing the number from 1000 to 2000 is all the more justified. Because for 1000 as a problem, these initiators did not receive more than 74 signatures within two months between all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, let us consider this proposal. I know he's got two thirds to attend to. Whatever the decision will be, it will be the right one, but I believe that and the situation with regard to the treatment of referendums is such that it is not unnecessary in this case that we have also offered such a possibility of thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic and then Mr Janša took note of the debate. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. With all due respect to what Ambassador Potrč said and, of course, with all due respect for the truth on a particular case, I could, on the other hand, point out a different case. I didn't agree to judge decisions based on what we heard yesterday, not individual names or individual cases. The referendum is the only form of direct decision taken by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who seek justice and truth at different levels in different organisations and institutions. They don't find her many times. It is neither our job nor our intention to judge whether it is found in court because there are so many backlogs or because the country is less legal than we think it is. In addition, we estimate in the Slovenian National Party that we have two strong enough or one strong enough fuse, regardless of how many signatures there are. Even if there are only 200 of them, if the matter that people want at the referendum is strong enough, then 40,000 signatures will be found. If not, whether 200 people are those who have given the initiative, 40,000 signatures will not be collected. I think, and this is how the Slovenian National Party also assesses that the increase in the number of initiators for the referendum has already been too large since the initial proposal of 1000 and less than 2000. That is why, of course, we will strongly oppose this amendment and the amendment to the amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. We will support the basic proposal. We think it makes sense for this trigger number to rise slightly. This can prevent the abuse that has occurred several times since, of course, there was no intention that these signatures would actually be collected later with a request, but only a delayed procedure. We believe that a five-fold rise, as proposed by the government, is the upper limit that can be landed on. This amendment by the Group of Members is somewhat inconclusive. Why? Because it increases the number of initiatives needed, not the requirement, by 10 times, according to the current situation, and this is a huge exaggeration. On the other hand, it limits the possibility of non-institutional incentives, not political parties. We can collect 1,000 or 2,000 signatures, which is not a big problem, and probably other parties that are organised. But it's harder for civil society. Here the difference between 1000 and 2000 is so great that if you accept it, you should change the title. This is not a law on human initiative, but it is then a law on restricting human initiative, because this threshold will be too high for any civil society institution to initiate a request within this short period of time. 1000 is yet another reasonable limit that prevents abuse and allows initiative at the same time, and 2000 is a 10-fold increase in the current number and in fact limits this right to apply for a referendum only to those entities that are already organised, but not to those - which are already public initiatives after understanding the concept - organised on a particular issue. By our constitution, we all have this right. Please don't limit this to such an unreasonable number. 1,000 is enough to prevent abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Sok first applied for the debate and then Mr Ašič. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group will also not support this amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 2, because we, like the speakers, are convinced that 1,000 - this is a 5-fold increase compared to what we had before - is enough written down and that the government had valid reasons when it wrote down that 1,000 signatures are needed to request signatures for a subsequent referendum. We would like to point out that, with such amendments, we are going back to the debate on something that has already been done in this national assembly. I think by saying it's 1,000 signatures, we've all agreed. And now all of a sudden, you surprise us by raising this by 100% to 2000. And it is true that such amendments and such solutions make it particularly difficult for civil initiative to apply for signatures through a civil initiative. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. When we adopted here in the National Assembly the law on artificial insemination with biomedical assistance - a little differently called - you said that it was an extremely small group that needed to be granted this right. First of all, there was talk of justice at the time. So now, with the same criterion, we need to have in mind small groups or small groups that we need to allow them to make at least a request. And our parliamentary group seems to have a thousand signatures and, therefore, I might suggest that, in order to avoid unnecessary debates, too long debates and possibly not to be adopted again, because you need 2/3 support and so on, you might withdraw this amendment to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I am one of the signatories to this amendment, which should be taken as an amendment by the Group of Members and not by the Group of Members, which should be highlighted in particular. Secondly, this amendment is written because of what Mr Potrč, as the first to sign, has already stressed that we should consider whether this is justified or not. In any case, I think we will support the basic text or the government's amendment, as some speakers have already announced. Now, of course, this 2,000 is not in itself pulled by the hair. The explanatory note states that 5 per cent of the number of signatures collected is actually held in order for the invitation to tender to take place. It is also 0.1 per cent of the population of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which I think is not too much, that 0.1 per cent of citizens and citizens give this initiative or 0.15 per cent of voters in Slovenia. This is not a high threshold if we look at it this way. Of course, it is an increase as it is, because we had a provision for 200 signatures earlier. The referendum is of course a serious matter and serious are the questions that are raised and spoken about in the referendum by citizens and citizens, voters and voters. Therefore, it is likely that there is a great deal of seriousness in the design of the initiative and, of course, a lot of reflection on the question we are going before citizens and citizens. Probably with questions of great consensus and, of course, the great interest of all those who then decide to vote in the referendum. The last few referendums did not confirm that there was a great interest, but this is another story. But there is something we can learn from all these stories. We therefore believe that this amendment could also be supported, of course if you consider it that way. However, the next step in collecting 40,000 signatures will certainly be significantly easier if it costs 2,000 of those activists who will decide to sign this initiative. I also believe, contrary to Mr Janša, that our civil society is very well organised and that, if the issue and the right initiative is appropriate, it is also easy to collect 2,000 signatures for the area of fishing, fisheries, sports or other activities that we are discussing; in these areas, civil society is in fact well organised if only a number of societies in Slovenia are taken as the engine of this association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potts, then Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We have two amendments or two options that open up or offer an increase in the number of signatures needed for the referendum. I will support the amendment first signed by Miran Potrč for a simple reason, because I feel that the referendum is such an important instrument that in some way, with all the experience we have with the referendums in the past, it is necessary to restore the necessary credibility. This means that it is also necessary for signature-gatherers to expect the necessary seriousness and ability to collect 2,000 signatures, which is not an unattainable number and is not impossible to justify why such a high number. It was explained that this criterion, however, is based on the number of signatures required, is 40,000. The argument that Mr Ašič made about the percentage of the population as a whole also seems to me to be a very good argument in favour of 2,000. However, if, of course, the will of the National Assembly is not different and the proposal for 2,000 signatures is not accepted, then I think it is necessary to support the Government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina wishes to replicate the implementation of Mrs Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would like to make a brief replica of the implementation of Mr Ašić, as well as of Mrs Potrate, in the sense that 2,000 signatures are not as easy to collect as they say. Mrs. Potts said it wasn't hard to gather. Of course, it's not hard to collect them if you have unions behind you that you control and then you make a decree that they have to collect signatures; then it's not a problem. However, for a purely neutral human initiative, it is certainly a very big problem, or it is not that simple, and it is difficult to collect 2,000 signatures. So under no circumstances will we support this. There is also another issue, or very important matter. Even if someone with 40,000 signatures he collects, tries to change or influence the provisions of a law, it can be such a small change in the whole system that it does not represent absolutely nothing. A liberal democracy with one sixth possible, or something more, I don't know, here somewhere, the voters who voted for it, rule this country in all decisions, with only one sixth of the voters, and decides on the fate of the other five sixths. And in general, in every way. Even if we raise the country or put it on the ground. That is why I do not think it is fair to limit some initiatives in such a harsh way, which is very questionable if, in fact, because of the 1,000 signatures collected, there will ever be a possible realization on the basis of some free human initiative. That's my view. I will by no means support this amendment proposed by the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Let's go in order with the replicas. First Mr Jerovšek on the implementation of Mrs Potrate and then Mr Juri on the implementation of Mr Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Ms Potrata mentioned that they would like to return the credibility of the referendum with this initiative. I think it's kind of weird for them. Indeed, the credibility of the referendum has been tried in this country. And surely the citizens felt defrauded when their will was not respected. However, I believe that the situation is now significantly different. When an initiative is taken at a referendum with a plebiscite majority, it is difficult to say that such a decision is not credible. Then we can also question the credibility of the referendum on plebiscite for independence, because this is now the second largest result and is talking about the non-creditability of the referendum. I think we need to stop this. People can make very good decisions and referendums are a credible thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat or answer to my colleague Kelemini when he said it wasn't easy to collect 2,000 signatures. That's a relative assessment. It's hard, and it's easy, depending on motivation. Here I would point out two very receptive cases from two if we want different camps. In two weeks, a civil border initiative in Istria collected 14,000 signatures for a resolution of its own. On the other hand, in one week, the civil society for the unity of the Koper municipality collected 12,000 signatures. So, of course, it depends on motivation and proper organisation for these signatures to be collected. I will vote in favour of this amendment because I think the number 2,000 is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We have two replicas to implement Mr Jerovska. First Mr. Beumann, then Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. I rarely speak to replicas, but I told my colleagues yesterday that when Jerovšek talks again about the plebiscite decision of a bad fifth of voters, I will react. I ask him kindly, my esteemed colleague Jerovšek, to consider what the word plebiscite means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go. Can you turn it off, Mr. Beumann? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, part of this has already been exhausted by Mr. Beumann. It is impossible to speak about the lack of credibility of the referendum with certain events in the past if a person follows a number of public responses and concerns and debates on which things should actually be discussed at the referendum. And I think that for a serious initiative to say about important things that concern the vast majority of citizens, a few more signatures than those of 200 or a thousand should be included in the initiative, if it turns out later that when serious signatures are signed and signatures are collected, the initiators cannot collect even a minimum number of signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Yes, I must explain to Mr Beumann what a plebiscite majority means. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	I apologize, in fact, for this place a debate which is absolutely not about the number of people for the initiative. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Yeah, then we should stop him, then we should stop him. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	I should have stopped you first, because in the first debate, of course, you went overboard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	No, I didn't. No, I'm sorry, but I didn't. You have to be right. The plebiscite majority means the vast majority at the referendum. And so far, I thought that because Mr Beumann is also my resident colleague, that all chemists know what percentage is of the vast majority. Now I can see it's not clear. However, all I would mention to Mr Beumann is not to offend Slovenian voters and talk about a bad fifth. This information is not accurate for the first time. Secondly, we know that in the referendums there are usually no participations and there was a markedly high participation in this referendum, for the European practice of referenda. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. He also wants to discuss Mr Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, the goal has been achieved. A fair enough debate on an idea. And if it's not accepted, nothing tragic. I just wanted to give it a try, I have to say, and I've consulted some of the colleagues who signed this, whether it's in the state it is, willing to think about it. It's no big deal. It's no big deal. An increase from 200 to 1000 will also mean something. Otherwise, it's only two, three things. Indeed, before I wrote this amendment, I went to read thoroughly this study of the Institute for Comparative Law, which speaks of referendums. If anyone ever likes it and wants to read it, let him read it. He will see how very restrictive the referendum is addressed in developed democracies. I can say that now someone will say again, this is different for us - I know, only comparatively speaking, this is a really remarkable case and we are very broad in this regard. So if something were to reduce this possibility, it would be difficult to say that this abolition is a democracy or a significant reduction, but it is an approach and a different view. Second. In doing so, we wanted to point out that there is a difference in the way we collect. The first collection is without registration and it is easier to collect it, the second collection is with registration, in short, you have to go to the administrative unit and register your signature there, which is much harder. And if we compare now specifically for the subsequent referendum, then we can find that if someone is unable to collect 2,000 unregistered signatures within a week, it will be very difficult to collect additional, then full 40,000 registered signatures in one month, and that this indicates some seriousness that would also be useful in the initiative itself. And thirdly, we thought it was important that this seriousness turned out in this direction, too, because we know what signature gathering means for work in the National Assembly. It means that a debate is closed and that if the interruption of discussions due to the lack of real requirements is too much, then it is not useful for the normal work of the National Assembly. If the total estimate of 1,000 signatures is sufficient, it will be an assessment and therefore nothing tragic. I have to say that I am even happy - and it must have helped the general atmosphere that this proposal did not use a big word, and I didn't want it myself. This is a completely practical proposal to which we will define ourselves. But I promise you, I won't be stalling. I won't be calling again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has a replica of the implementation of Mr Potč and then Mr Horvat's debate. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'd just like to complement Mr. Potts. He said we were broad-minded until the referendum. So, if I recall correctly, we have actually had only three referendums in a state of our own in ten years. One, the independent one, was accepted by the congregation at that time, and it meant an act that we had to carry out if we wanted to reach a country of our own. Then we had two referenda on TET 3 and the last one, which was signed on the basis of 30 Members' signatures in the National Assembly. In fact, so far only one referendum has been requested by the people, this is a referendum on the electoral system. On the basis of the signature of what we are saying today, 1,000 or 2,000 signatures, only one referendum has been launched in this country in ten years. And please, Mr Potts, this is no broad-mindedness to the referendum questions, if that is how only one referendum has been reached. I would also like to remind you that when we passed the law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilisation with biomedical aid, it was seven days before the civil initiative collected signatures. They picked them up, if you remember correctly, 2,000. Maybe that's what fascinated you, too, to this amendment you wrote. But in this National Assembly, some of these 2,000 signatures were denied if they were among these signatures, and I didn't see them, but you mentioned that they were also signed by minors. I don't know if that was the case, but I would like to point out that it is not so easy for civil society to collect 2,000 signatures within 7 days, especially when required at least, I don't know what data, everything has to be given. People in our country still live under some pressure of fear, and many times they do not hope to sign such referendum requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm replicating my colleague Sok. In view of the fact that there was no Member in the previous term, and it seems that he was poorly monitoring the developments in the National Assembly, I would like to tell him that several more referendums have been carried out. They weren't the only ones he counted. If we recall the referendums on the establishment of municipalities, if we recall the referendum on the electoral system in the previous term. I think there were a few more referendums. But there was also one who was prevented, even though people signed a request for a referendum in large numbers. 52,000 signatures were collected prematurely, not within a 30-day period, but these people failed to reach a request for a referendum because the referendum was prevented and in this way also valuable in the essence of the referendum. There's only so much to explain. The referendums were a lot more than you listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Replica back, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Just one sentence. Once you have adopted the new Rules of Procedure, the replica will not be possible and the last word given by Mr Kontic will apply. So, do not count on this matter of referendums on the establishment of municipalities, please, because this is in accordance with the law and there is no need to collect signatures.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	So far, Mr Sok, all the referendums have been in line with the law. Even those for whom signatures had to be collected. However, the fact that the replication will not be allowed in the new Rules of Procedure, and from these debates I have heard yesterday and today, I support with confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Horvath has the floor, which has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, as an introduction to the debate to those colleagues who mentioned the last referendum, I suggest that those who have not read the statement made by the US Ambassador in yesterday's Finances on the subject of this referendum. It's just, by the way. I must say, the arguments against this amendment have not convinced me. The fact that the five-fold increase in the number or threshold in relation to the current regulation is not a strong enough argument because this regulation has been abnormally low, and the stronger arguments that have also been cited in the debate to raise the threshold to 2,000. Let me add another one to that. I very much agree that this is a legitimate but highly responsible instrument of democracy, but it is not the only instrument of democracy or the only saving instrument of democracy. And when you refer to a civil initiative - I very much appreciate the civil initiative and I think that civil society needs to be given a greater role in this country, in this society, but it is not the only form to enforce its initiatives and interests through referendums. They must also be more enforced in direct communication with the government and, above all, through the National Assembly. If we thus facilitate the launch of the referendum, we are simply dissuading civil initiative or the organisation of civil society from coming to the National Assembly with a number of initiatives, which are well-founded. After all, "enthusiast" over referendums, however, shows generally poor participation in referendums. I think we need to take into account, in addition to our own bad experiences, experiences from abroad. See, the Swiss themselves, who probably have the most widespread referendums among all countries, have a very critical view of them and also of critical assessments, and the question is whether or not they will change the regime in the future; not to mention other countries that refuse to use referendums so often. It is no coincidence that in the last period, perhaps even because of the possibility of a referendum on the topic of pcps, also the senior officials - I will not mention names - have warned us about the excessive use of referendums, especially for matters that are not most suitable for decision-making at the referendums. And finally, after all, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take care of the price, because we know how expensive the referendums are, and if it is matters that are not necessarily necessary, or the content of such, that it is justified enough to go to the referendum, not to abuse this form and additionally burden taxpayers with the enormous costs of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. For a short time, I would have replicated to Mr Horvath in his work, saying that his participation in the referendums was very poor. I agree that it is really bad, but, with all due respect, I am ashamed, in fact, of watching this negative propaganda that this machine has triggered against this referendum. And that's absurd what you've done! That's absurd. I was ashamed every day when I listened constantly to all the reports, all the reporters were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Mr. Kelemina, I'm sorry, but this absolutely goes beyond the subject that we're dealing with. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	No wonder that's the result [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	I remind you that we are not discussing things that are not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	It's okay. Most of all, it is not surprising that such a result and such participation are good that it is at all. And you can only attribute this as your very, very negative assessment and the point of this propaganda you initiated for this referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. It seems to me that when we have to deal with numbers - and here are numbers - that we should have some proportion in these numbers and that we should be the first step, the second step and the third step in a certain proportion. It seems to me that this solution, which is in the old marriage, is in these changes and additions that that step is very low or too low. If you look at these steps now, and about a million and half voters, that's the whole mass. Here we have, this is the third step, in the second step we're dealing with 40,000 signatures, how much percentages are now 40,000 to one million, that's right at the moment of calculation, and if we follow that those 200 signatures were too small, then those thousand in the first step are about as much percent as 40,000 to one million and half voters. That's why I think if we were to use some proportion here, that, at least for my taste, I'm just apologizing, those 2,000 signatures are too much of a step. It seems to me that the proportion, however we take, is a thousand large enough to be available to all so that this thing can be sustained. That's just my personal opinion. I will not vote in favour of this proposed amendment to the amendment, because it seems to me that it is extremely proportionate. If we were to move forward, we would have to file 80,000 of those signatures at 2,000 signatures and then have some proportions. But nobody got into this. It seems to me that with the changes that the government has made, it has achieved the purpose that is needed to change this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 2, whose proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Mirano Potrce. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 24. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment contained in the review, namely the amendment to the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 27 to 27. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! 66 Members and Members are present. 60 votes against 3. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 2 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to raise one question with this article in view of Mr Kontic's previous debate. He boasted of 52,000 voters, and he is on this topic of this article, because he has, in fact, stood up to the possibility of accepting the counter-constitutional consequences at the referendum. That was the initiative. I wonder if this is negligently the position of the United List and in some ways the distrust of the minister who comes from his client, who is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Wait, this is a political right to ask. Absolutely!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	No, no, no. The right is limited by the fact that it is discussed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Exactly the unconstitutional consequences I am talking about, which are here in this article. Madam Vice President, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	No one challenges the right to a constitutional judgment. Mr Jerovšek, I am giving you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a reminder that you are exceeding the scope of the agenda that we have at the time of our consideration of Article 3 and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Madam Vice President! I'm talking about the rejection of the law could have counter-constitutional consequences. [[...]] This is a diction of Article 3, and if I cannot discuss this, then I wonder what else is allowed in this House. That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Don't talk about it. That's my grade.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	That's exactly what I'm talking about, whether it's inside here, and I'm very surprised you as a lawyer. [[...]] I am very surprised to you, Madam Vice-President, that you are trying to reject this possibility that such important things may be discussed by the Member. On the contrary, I must conclude that in the previous performance, there was a kind of lack of confidence in Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Mr. Jerovšek! Next time, I'll warn you. If you don't stop discussing these things, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	I protest that this is how you warn me. I want to know from Mr. Bohintz if he feels he's got a mistrust from his own client.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Mr. Jerovšek, I take your word. [[A voice from behind.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision, first of all on the government's amendment to Article 3. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 4 and the amendment of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the amendment to this article, of which the Government is proposing, the country's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and on the amendment to this article, of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 6 has been deleted. We return to the amendments tabled by the Group of Members, in conjunction with Article 7, to the debate and to the decision of Article 7 and the amendment to the amendment to Article 7, of which the proposed Group of Members is a group of Members, with the first-signed Merrant, and to the review under order number one of the Government's basic amendments, supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you, Madam President, for warning that this is an amendment to the amendment, we agree on the proposal. Second. I would ask, if the editorial correction should also be taken into account, that the first and second lines read: "if, on the basis of the request of the State Council, the National Assembly is the law", it must read "ob", not "o", "adopted". It's different about content. Before we received the position of the Secretariat on this article or on these issues, we considered that it would be useful to regulate the most urgent definitions of the last Constitutional Court decision concerning the deadlines for the submission of an initiative or request and then also the deadlines for the publication of the law by supplementing this law. It seems to us that this matter should be clear in the law for all the instigators, not always having to read the decision of the Constitutional Court, what and what rights they are given. However, there are significant changes here following a decision by the Constitutional Court. By a decision of the Constitutional Court, the initiators, in the event that a suspension veto has been put in place and that the law has been confirmed at the time of the re-voting, have seven days to collect now the proposed 1,000 signatures from the re-decision, not as we said before, from the first day or the adoption of the law itself. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the State Council shall have the same right within the time limit. We considered that it was right for this solution to be clearly stated in the law, that it would be known to all the initiators and that, even if it did happen, we would have to take it into account in the national assembly following a decision by the Constitutional Court. I myself agree with the secretariat's opinion that the Constitutional Court's decision raises another issue. However, I personally believe that, for the first time, it is not necessary to write it into the law now, because it is not the urgent information that we have to give to potential initiators; for the second, that some other issues can be resolved in the opposite, if it comes to them, and later, after we have settled the whole new law. However, in order to now put all the details and all the modalities that the Constitutional Court is distributing in its decision into law, I think it would not be appropriate. However, I would be grateful if, in this sense, the Secretary-General of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs would also express her opinion in this regard - I would say that, at least, I would explain it orally to her when I asked her about it. However, I propose that we adopt this amendment, because it really means clarifying the situation of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitencheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would just like to confirm that the secretariat intended to draw attention to those main issues which, following its understanding of the Constitutional Court's decision, are now emerging with regard in particular to possible initiators and initiatives to collect signatures for the submission of a request for a referendum. However, not all questions are, indeed, aimed at clarifying the situation of the initiators, but some are also intended to clarify the state of play on these initiatives in the National Assembly. In view of the fact that this is a national assembly, it may not really be necessary, I will say, an additional legal regulation, but I must point out that, in particular, the President of the National Assembly and with him all the services that we assess in the National Assembly the initiatives that have been put forward and the situation in which various initiatives are taking place, the requirements concerning, say, the same law, will be in a relatively irregular situation, in particular with regard to certain guidelines resulting from the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, not from the legal texts. In this case, it will be necessary to resolve matters with one interpretation following the purpose and understanding of both the Constitutional Court and the legislator's primary purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Ptræ. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of which the government is proposing. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 7 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 2 [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 9th Article, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is also the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 11 as well as a proposal for a government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 12 and on the Government's amendment to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate on the last, this is Article 13 and the Government's amendment to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We have discussed the amendments tabled and are moving on to the discussion on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Mr. Cuckoo, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	I did not notice that we would discuss and vote on the first amendment to Article 7 on page 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Perhaps the matter was somewhat unclear because we first moved on to a special sheet and voted on the amendment to Mr Potsch's amendment and then on the amendment of the government. However, we can ask them to check that this may not have happened to us, and I think we have done the vote in the article. Nevertheless, thank you very much for your warning. However, the article was not entirely necessary because it had changed. Anyone want to talk about the rest of the articles to which no amendments have been tabled? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments were adopted to the draft law at second reading and that qualified applicants can make amendments. If that's what they want, please do it. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	I would suggest procedurally that we proceed with the third reading after recess by looking at what has been adopted, what has not been adopted and whether we should decide whether or not to table amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Mr Janša, if I understand correctly on behalf of the Group of Members, you propose to suspend and vote on the law in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	No, no, third reading. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Third hearing in the afternoon. We therefore conclude the morning part of the meeting and continue at 2.30 p.m. with the third reading of the bill. And then in order of course, as we announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 7th session, 28.6.2001: Alojz Peterle for all day, Sonja Areh Lavrič for the afternoon part of the session, Franci Rokavec from 3 p.m. onwards, Miran Jerič for the afternoon part of the session, Branko Janc for all day and Jelko Kacin for the start of the afternoon part of the session. We're detecting a presence. I ask you politely to press the "quorum" button. There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. In this morning's work, we concluded a second reading of the proposal for a law on referendum and human initiative. We have moved on to the third hearing, where qualified applicants have had the opportunity to table amendments to the open article. We didn't get them on the bench. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the law in its entirety. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. In fact, I have a question for the Legislature, which is now likely to have already assessed this matter after the second reading at least in principle. I would like to know if what has been adopted is sufficient for the Constitutional Court to decide that Article 25 of the Law or that that part of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which does not set a time limit for the adoption of law after the referendum, does not comply with the Constitution. Did we now eliminate this discrepancy with this text or did we not? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tina Bitenc, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A well-respected choir. As I have already said with regard to the additional written opinion you received on the bench, in our view, the main issue - this is the issue of the deadline for the submission of initiatives to the electorate to collect signatures for the drafting of a request for a referendum - is now clearly settled because the amendment of the Group of Members has been adopted. At the same time, I said that in our opinion, however, certain issues remain open, but not so many questions are raised by voters or beneficiaries of initiatives as some of the subsequent issues that require some additional regulation and some, of course, additional interpretations. I just want to say that the main issue of the deadline has been met and that, in our understanding, it is also clearly settled. However, some questions, particularly with regard to previous initiatives, which, as explained in the Constitutional Court's decision, somehow become irrelevant if the proposed suspension veto is reached by the National Assembly and the deadline is considered from the re-admission or from the adoption of the law at the re-decision, and we believe that the President of the National Assembly, who first decides on the issue of these initiatives, may not be adequately regulated for our taste and interpretation will be necessary. I've just said that before. We also believe that the procedure carried out by the President in relation to these initiatives is not sufficiently transparent, although it has important legal consequences, which is not only in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision. This is a judgment you could have given at this point. So that the main issue of the deadline, according to our understanding of the matter, is solved by an adopted amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	It is not a matter of justification, but it is a judgment of the 1989 Constitutional Court, which states: "The Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not set a time limit within which the State Assembly, after the adoption of the proposal at the transitional referendum, must adopt a law to enforce the solution adopted at the referendum." This is the first amendment to the Referendum Act following this decision and it would be appropriate to abolish this non-compliance with the constitution found in the Constitutional Court's decision. So we've drafted an amendment and now we're putting it in. It sets out that the assembly in this case must adopt a law within one year. I appeal to the council to support this amendment. We are already late for the deadline set by the Constitutional Court. I think we should have fixed this two years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of the Interior if he wishes to be defined. I think the amendment, of course, will come on the bench. Here you go, Mr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Yeah, it's hard to get to the amendment because I haven't seen it. However, the fact is that this issue of the resolution of this Constitutional Court decision, which was cited by counterpart Janša, has not been implemented in the amendments tabled. The point of view of the section was that, although there was much debate about this and the expert group had devoted considerable attention to it, this novel, which is more interventional, which changes everything a little bit, would not have allowed this issue to be resolved, especially because a thorough revision of this law is being prepared. The working group on this audit is already in operation. In addition, there is a special subgroup for constitutional change in this area. At that time, the decision of the expert group adopted by the government was to settle all these issues, including in a thorough review of the law or perhaps even in the new referendum law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beatenchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President, for giving me your word. I would like to apologize to the assembly, and in particular to Mr Janša, because I did not understand which decision he was actually referring to. He was thinking about the decision, I'm going to say about the election issues, where there's another deadline on the question. I think the explanation was just given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	The explanation was given and is such that it corresponds to the actual state of affairs. However, it does not answer the question why a proposal had not been drawn up to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision. We are bound to respect these decisions. This is not about any substantive issue with regard to which there would be major political differences. The fact is, this is a flaw in the current law. And because of this flaw, there was a lot of time lost in this national convention when we argued about what that reasonable time frame was. I propose that after three years, however, we address this flaw. As we have said, we have prepared an amendment. It proposes that the deadline within which the State Assembly, after the referendum, must legislate the decision at the referendum should be one year. This can be discussed. It may be six months, it may be nine months, it may be one year and two months, but one deadline this National Assembly is obliged to set and thus comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court. And now the amendment is coming on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I think it's important to wait for the amendment to come on the bench. I've got him in front of me. This is the amendment to Article 9, which reads: "A new third paragraph of Article 25 shall be added, namely: The National Assembly shall adopt the law one year after the referendum has been carried out in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of this Article." By way of explanation: "The Constitutional Court is by decision UI 93/96, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 82/98 decided that the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative was inconsistent with the Constitution because it did not set a time limit within which the State Assembly, after the adoption of the proposal at the previous referendum, should adopt a law implementing the solution adopted at the referendum. The proposed amendment lays down a one-year period within which the National Assembly must adopt the law adopted at the previous referendum. In view of the fact that the National Assembly should eliminate this non-compliance within 6 months of its publication in the Official Journal, it is essential that the National Assembly eliminate this non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." Thus, the third reading amendment, in such a context, I am putting to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Don't mind me, but we need to see this amendment, too. We have to get it, and we have to have five minutes to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Mr Potč, by the rules of procedure, because it is a quick procedure, it is not necessary, but since you have proposed, I am suspending the session until we get an amendment to the bench for 10 minutes to define yourself to it and then we will proceed. We'll resume work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	And since the proposer has completed his amendment once again, we will wait a few more minutes to reproduce it and get it on the bench. Thank you very much. As the amendment is divided into blocks, allow me only to inform you that the Chairman of the Committee has informed me that paragraph 5 has been interrupted, this is a proposal for a road transport law, because the amendments are still being prepared, is not ready and after the end of this point we will move on to a halted 16th point, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act and then on a regular basis. Thank you very much. Because I think that the amendment is divided, we will first determine the presence. I ask you politely to press the "quorum" button to determine whether we are enough in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 54 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. So on the bench before us we have an amendment to Article 9, in a slightly different content than I had previously read. I am opening a debate on this amended amendment. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Yes, if you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a few comments on what is proposed. I have previously said that in the section preparing this legal novel, the position has prevailed that we do not propose this deadline at the time of the revised amendment, despite the fact that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that obliges us to remedy this constitutional situation. We are in the original version, ahead of these last amendments, when the proposed legalisation of the real legislative referendum and the abolition of the previous referendum was proposed, we have foreseen what the parliamentary group is proposing. In particular, the deadline within which the situation should be regulated after the legislative referendum has been decided. For the profession notes that it is necessary, i.e. the link between these two standards, the regulation of the legislative referendum and the time limit within which the law should be adopted on the basis of a decision at the legislative referendum. The section also notes as regards the previous referendum that this deadline calls for a constitutional change. In fact, why? In view of the fact that the imposition on the National Assembly of the imposition of a penalty of something which is defined only at the principle level by the electorate, something which calls for a preliminary constitutional change in the institution of the referendum. Therefore, by a large majority of the time, the section decided, unanimously, not to propose this because of the risk of interference with constitutionality or because of possible doubts about the constitutionality of such a decision before the constitutional changes of the institution of the referendum. In order to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, it is before the next weighing - on the one hand, while we do not really implement the decision of the Constitutional Court to which Mr Janša rightly refers, and on the other hand, that if we implement it or implement this decision, which would be our commitment or commitment to the National Assembly, the question of the constitutionality of such a decision would be raised in view of the current regulation of the referendum in the Constitution. In order to repeat this, the profession has decided not to propose this in this minimum audit. However, if the National Assembly decides to do so at the risk of the constitutional dispute of this amendment, it would suggest that the wording itself be reviewed. The formulation itself is somewhat inaccurate, including this modified one. In fact, there's a speech about one year after the referendum. In fact, a more precise formulation should be defined in a way: after a positive outcome at the referendum. Since the referendum is carried out and the proposal is rejected, this cannot create an obligation for the State assembly to take such a decision. In short, if the National Assembly were to decide on this arrangement, but there is an argument for it, it is definitely in the already mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court, but due to the simultaneous risk of constitutional dispute, this formulation will need to be slightly absorbed. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Tina Bitenc, then Mr Juri and then Mr Janša, took the floor. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I would also like to draw attention to the editorial inconsistencies of the text, as it does not, in fact, correspond to the purpose reflected in the explanation of the proposed solution, namely that it relates to the situation after the adoption of the proposal, obviously a legislative solution, in the previous referendum. It is necessary to know that the solution is contained in Article 25, which generally refers to the relationship of the national assembly to the outcome of the referendum, and that in the dictatorship in which the new third paragraph is proposed, even in some sense the conceptual doubling of the regulation referred to in paragraph 2 – paragraph 2 is now saying: "The national assembly must take into account the decision taken in the previous referendum" - and is more precise in this respect, as regards the type of referendum. However, this is also a matter, as has already been pointed out, of a constitutional and legal nature. The fact is that we have this decision by the Constitutional Court, which has already been said, but the dimensions of the relationship that the Constitution also provides for the national assembly to decide on the decision taken at the referendum have been regulated in a negative sense by the law in force. As far as the positive sense is concerned, it has obviously been assessed that the second paragraph, in paragraph 25, is in force, as far as possible, on the fact that it is necessary to realize that the National Assembly, in its decisions, is in fact sovereign and that on the other hand, is a sovereign people who, on the other hand, decides at the referendum, but the Constitution has not regulated more than the diction of tying. From this point of view, I will also draw attention to the fact that, in itself, setting a deadline does not necessarily contribute to enforcement, because if a national assembly is unable to adopt such a solution this year, there is no sanction, in fact, as has been pointed out several times before, certain responses to such a situation can actually be carried out by elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, you're giving up. Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Before we discussed the rules of procedure, there were several law students on the balcony who were monitoring it. Now I don't know if they're still here or not, but if we heard this debate, we'd be very doubtful about our legal order. Indeed, because on the one hand we have a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is clear, and the Constitutional Court in this country is the one that decides whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not; it is not the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly, nor is it an expert group in the government [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] - I will wait for the gentlemen to finish their reading badge there - not even some expert group with the government or the Ministry of the Interior. But to say that it is against respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, it is particularly "fat", isn't it, Mr. Bohinc? Yes, of course you said - the profession was against setting a deadline. The profession was not against this because there was no question about it, it was six, seven lawyers in this section of yours; what the debate was like, I don't know -- it was obviously the majority against the decision being respected, which is controversial. The Constitutional Court did not set a time limit nor imposed on the national assembly what period to set. It has only found that the law is inconsistent with the Constitution because it does not provide for that period. And it's up to the legislator to set that deadline. Why this Constitutional Court has adopted such a decision, but it is clear to all those who have been included in this debate on the referendum on the electoral system in the previous term. Because this fact and the lack of law caused a lot of problems, including for the legislator, because it was not clear within what time frame something needed to be done. And if this deadline is not set in this sense that it is real, then the right given in the constitution in some way is just a fiction, in some way there is no in practice. It is clear that there are no sanctions against the National Assembly, but that is not an argument against violating the deadline. If the time limit violates this deadline, of course, no one will punish him because in democracy it is assumed that those who adopt the laws also respect these laws, and in particular respect the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But that's not an argument. The fact that there are no sanctions does not preclude my being respected by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In all the laws we pass, hundreds of deadlines are laid down. Many of the deadlines that we set ourselves in the various decisions we make, including what kind of law we adopt in the first and second readings, may be such that it may sometimes be violated. But we still accept it. Although there are no sanctions for non-admission, I really suggest that we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or not, we are not discussing this because it is not appropriate in the rule of law, but that we are discussing what this deadline should be, because it is, of course, the legislators' competence at this stage of the procedure. And I also ask the President of the National Assembly, I think he's here somewhere, at least before that, whether he thinks from the point of view of his position as the first one in this legislative body, this debate is in place and how he sees these things, that we are here discussing whether we will respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or not, when the National Assembly has been two years late. Unfortunately, I must say, this is not the only case. He's not the only one. In the few ten laws that have been repealed, we are late to adopt constitutionally harmonised provisions in this law. And that's the problem. Finally, this is a problem that can be seen from Brussels. It's not as simple as anyone would have imagined. So, yes, I suggest we accept this amendment. If anyone has a different deadline, let him suggest it. However, I appeal to all of us not to discuss whether the decisions of the Constitutional Court are compulsory or not. I really don't. However, if there is any proposal for a better dictatorship - this is just fine, we know exactly what is proposed - we are also prepared to accept a better dictatorship of this amendment. There's no problem with that. Of course, it's content.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	There'll be no misunderstanding. Neither the profession nor the proposer ever felt that it was necessary to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court. The proof of this is that in the previous version of the law we also had this deadline, but in the alternative, when the legislative referendum was regulated in the way it was regulated in European legislation. What I reiterate is the majority belief in the expert group that, with the current or minimum correction, where the previous referendum remains, and where the legislative referendum is not regulated, it would be constitutionally questionable to regulate this deadline and thus change Parliament's position in the sense that it may be imposed on it to settle an issue. However, this is certainly an issue that will need to be addressed when the institutions of the referendum address ourselves thoroughly, professionally and in a manner consistent with European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Well, we've been working on these institutions for a long time. Very long time, effective and correct and complete. I don't know when this marriage will be on the agenda. It is likely that this section, which discusses this, will first prepare changes to the Constitution. And it will have to be adopted first - I strongly doubt that it will go just as easily - and then just prepare the law and at least a few years will go by before this happens. And in that time, we will be in some unconstitutional state, because we have not implemented a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, it is crucial that this decision was adopted at a time when the Constitution was in force, as is the case today, in this part, nothing has changed in the constitution concerning the referendum, and also in the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative applied at that time as it is today. There's been no systemic change here. It is said that you personally, and some of the lawyers in this section, think that if we set a time limit for it to be contrary to the Constitution, this may be your legitimate opinion, but this has nothing to do with the actual legal situation laid down here in the legal order in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is the one to be respected. And your legal opinion is not on this decision. These discussions are somewhere in very slippery terrain, indeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In preparing this law, we were initially expecting, I must say, that a preliminary legislative referendum could be proposed and an agreement could be reached that the legislative solution no longer exists. There were some professional questions about this, and I'm not going to say no, well-founded, but above all, it was the political will not to do so. As was the political will today to go into minimal changes, which is something that needs to be made possible. Here, the main issue of the referendum is not 40,000 signatures and this, but that we have 3 different candidates and at any given occasion, we can apply this right, which is constitutional. As a result, we had a section 9 in the group that prepared or was a consultant in the preparation of the proposal for a law in the Ministry, which was based on the question of the linkage to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the event that there is no previous legislative referendum. Therefore, if the draft law was adopted at the legislative referendum on human initiative, the national assembly would send it to the public. The National Assembly is bound by the decision of the electorate at the subsequent referendum, since there was no previous discussion at the time, so that one year after the holding of the subsequent referendum it is not possible to adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the outcome of the referendum, unless the changed circumstances so require. The proposal, as proposed, will not be formally drafted, is corrected. We have a constitutional court decision. Talking about whether we want to do it or not is one thing and another is an obligation. We accept what we accept as marriage, and I agree that it is a warning that this first law should be adopted not after six months, but after a long time. However, all the questions we have in relation to the previous referendum will remain open and all questions will be raised as to whether this provision is possible to resolve the dilemma we have in the previous referendum. For example, I agree that, on a very clear question, on which only a single answer is given, the commitment of the national assembly to the'referendum yes', this question is relatively simple. Many times it can be very complicated, and then we'll open up the old ones. That is why I do not want to allow myself to create the feeling that this is a solution to the problem of the previous referendum and the relationship between the decision taken at the referendum and the obligations and rights, both substantive and formal, of the national assembly. That's all I want to say, and I formally agree. It will be difficult to say because we are against the Constitutional Court's decision. But I'd just like to give you a little heads-up so it's not ambiguity. I think one part of the explanation is probably inconsistent with the content. Look. You say that, then, with the proposed one-year period within which the National Assembly must adopt the law adopted at the previous referendum. We probably know it's an imprecise formulation. If this were not to be mixed in any way now, it would probably be wise to know that it is necessary to adopt a law in accordance with the content of the decision in the previous referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	My colleague Janš asked me a question, I suppose, also because I have or have the President of the National Assembly under the position of some authority in this regard. First of all, in order to avoid misunderstandings, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be respected. I think that no one among us would object to the application of this decision by the Constitutional Court if it did not raise some professional questions. I suggest that we think twice about the matter rather than make a quick decision and perhaps even a mistake. Why? Because I think that if, in what matters, then questions relating to fundamental human rights, we have to come to such legal standards that are unequivocal, which do not give the President of the National Assembly or the State Assembly too much room for manoeuvre to interpret this political will. This is important to everyone. Therefore, in these matters, the legal norm must not be duplicated, and it must be clear. When people decide something, they need to know what their decision means. That's also the question. If it is necessary, according to different professional opinions, to take the time, let us take it rather than write it down on a fast - moving legal norm that will be difficult to enforce. Since people know their rights, exercise them, have the right to insist on their application, and it is up to us that these legal standards are clearly written down, and it is our interest that they are written in such a way that we do not give anyone else too much room for manoeuvre to interpret this political will. Let us take time, remove professional doubts and write things so that it will be good for the people who exercise rights, as well as for us who codify them with legal standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	There is a beautiful old Slovenian proverb to answer this discussion by the President of the National Assembly, which avoided the dilemma. But what Mr Ptræ said earlier is true, but nothing solves this issue either. With this amendment, we do not solve all the difficulties with regard to the previous legislative referendum, nor do we claim to solve all these difficulties. We're saving one of them. One of the issues that proved in practice in the event of a specific case was that the law did not set a time limit within which the decision or decision taken at the referendum would be implemented in terms of the adoption of the law in the national assembly. There was a lot of ink about that. And the Constitutional Court has clearly stated here: the National Assembly must not repeat such situations next time, set in the law a time limit within which constitutional rights are exercised - because the Constitution states that the State Assembly is bound by the outcome of the referendum, not by this law, but by the constitution. However, this binding is completely virtual, so unattainable if no deadline is set. If the deadline is not set, the National Assembly may wait a hundred years and do not violate anything formally, but in fact, of course, it violates constitutional law. Thus is the reasoned decision of the Constitutional Court, and this matter is clear. Within six months, the National Assembly should set that deadline. We are now in 2001 in June, we are amending this law and it will be very difficult for you to explain to the legal professions and the Slovenian public that there are some concerns that would make this decision impossible to explain. The President of the legislative body with such an answer as he had given earlier would not have come through a public hearing before the Constitutional Court. I'm sure you don't. These are fundamental issues of the division of power in a democratic rule of law. We can't act like these branches aren't here and there's no constitutional court at the top, because then we're in anarchy. And there is no professional dilemma in this regard, Mr Pahor, there is no such thing. When the Constitutional Court says that there is one thing that is inconsistent with the Constitution, then it is inconsistent with the Constitution. We may have a different opinion on this, but the Minister of the Interior may have a different opinion, but this opinion is not binding. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court is binding.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	I believe that the National Assembly must make such decisions as it can enforce them. Is that right? I have initially said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be respected. The fact that opinions have been shared has already been said. This Decision should be applied in such a way as to make it clear. If there are different suggestions on how to do this, then I suggest that we just think twice about it, first of all, making a decision that will prove to be perhaps ambiguous or wrong. And who will give it to someone who is not competent to interpret human will. To this end, I am striving to make public the powers of the various branches of government and those who, as individuals, have responsibilities in this matter, so that their conduct does not depend on their political will. And if the Minister has mentioned this, there are different professional views, I suggest that they be weighed twice before making such an important decision or article as you suggest, we write them down. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	I doubt that Mr Pahor has even been thoroughly involved in the matter, nor has it been possible at this time, so I am making a procedural proposal that we decide after this has happened. I suggest that we just stop the debate before deciding on this amendment, that those who are not clear on this matter will deepen in order to have a peaceful conscience when we decide on this. And that's what we decide on Wednesday. There is still a lot of agenda items that we can deal with now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Janša's procedural proposal to end this item on the agenda and continue with the consideration of the other items on the agenda, and proceed on Wednesday, in accordance with the rules of procedure. Since we have moved the decision to Wednesday, it is clear when we conclude our consideration of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Formally put this to the vote so that I can really only have a combination of this, then the mother's working body meets here if it can and can combine these two together.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Mr Janša, this was only a proposal from the representative of the Group of Members, which can be defined by a procedural proposal if you allow it to expand by defining the working body of the Member State, which is possible under the rules of procedure, otherwise we will vote on your basic procedural proposal. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	I agree that the mother's working body should also be defined to do so. I'm just wondering what my mother's working body will say whether or not it will say that the Constitutional Court's decision should not be implemented in this case. He can't say that. But if it says to be done, it's clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Actually, there's an option, according to the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	However, if it is the mother's working body that finds a better dictatorship of this amendment, or whether it is one year or a half a year, then, of course, this is a very welcome proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	This must have been the intention of the proposer. Then do you agree? Thank you very much. Procedural proposal to suspend the third reading of the proposal for a referendum and a human initiative law, to terminate and continue on Wednesday following the consideration of the Rules of Procedure and to define the labour force competent to the third reading amendment tabled. Such a procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal to suspend the treatment of this item of the agenda and to define the parent working body to the third reading amendment tabled has been adopted. That's why I'm putting an end to this point. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Second defense of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Protection Before Fire. As the debate on the representatives of the parliamentary groups has already been concluded, we are moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. The draft law has three articles in its basic text. The following amendments were tabled at Article 1: the amendment of the parent working body contained in the report of 8.6. 2001 on page 3; amendment to Article 1 to amend only the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of 28.6.2001 and the amendment of the same Member Club of 26.6.2001. I am therefore putting to debate and decision Article 1 and these amendments to this article by noting that we will first vote on the amendment to Article 1 for its complete amendment, and that, as I said, the proposed amendment is the LDS. With the possible adoption of this amendment, the remaining two amendments to Article 1 become irrelevant. It is said that I am opening a debate on Article 1 and on these amendments. Does Mr. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Richtaj, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good-bye. We have identified ourselves with regard to the amendment tabled by the LDS House on 26.6. and with regard to the amendment of 28.6. We only realize that we will have a certain duality. The annual plans, the protection against natural and other state-level disasters, will be adopted by the government, and an integral part of this plan will also be the consumption of 30 per cent of the fire fee, which will be accepted by a specific body. Second. Similar duality will occur in the congregations. The annual plan of protection against natural and other disasters will be adopted by the municipal council, while this part of the fire fee earmarked for co-financing will be accepted by this special body. The dimension of the problem: in 75 municipalities last year, the funds received from fire taxes were less than a million tolars. It was all about a dimension of about 250 and a little bit over the tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you. So on the Defence Committee we discussed this law, and the report was given when we broke up before we broke up. And, well, this is my personal opinion, not the chairman of the Defence Committee, but my personal opinion that the solutions proposed by the government were good. Mr. Richtaj has also now explained that duality would not occur. On the other hand, if we still have an additional body, this is an additional administration. But it is not such a terrible great resource to justify this body. However, if they have decided to do so in the largest group of Members and obviously, given the size they have, they will bring it through, even if it is necessary to head through the wall, this fact must be taken into account. Of course, I take it into account, I accept it, and if it doesn't work out differently, I will support it, because I see the matter going through. But I'd like to draw attention to the content. This is the fifth paragraph of this amendment, which states that the use of fire tax funds to co-finance fire protection tasks at national level is planned by a committee appointed by the Government under this Article. The Committee shall consist of two members from representatives of voluntary firefighters, two members from professional firefighters and so on. Here is a certain imbalance, I do not say why it has occurred that this is such a relationship and how it is now arranged, but it is necessary to take into account the fact that in Slovenia more than 100,000 professional firefighters are of such or different age and I do not know, 500 professional. In this body, however, there are two representatives from each. That's a little illogical. So if this goes through, then let's accept such an amendment, and in the third, we try to get it together with the proposaler - I hope that the proposer will agree to accept such an argument - to amend it, to correct it in this sense, to say 2:1, if they insist on doing so. But I think the original solution given by the government is better, more transparent, simpler, less administration, more efficient and I think it serves the intended. But if, of course, the largest parliamentary group insists on this, then I suggest, of course, if it is possible for someone to accept the solution I have given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Members of our parliamentary group, members of the Defence Committee, have already pointed out this issue on the Committee's agenda. We have warned and also stressed that we do not agree that the committees are deleted in Article 58 of the existing law, because we are convinced that this arrangement, as it has been before and that the amendment is being returned to law, was not so wrong. In fact, it has even influenced, both in the local community and at the country level, an interdisciplinary approach to dealing with the problem and not only in narrow professional circles. This is precisely why this amendment has been tabled, the state-level committee is being reinstated - for which representatives of the fire department, professional firefighters and, of course, representatives of education, economy, research and insurance services are expected to be also in the area of the municipality where committees have been operating under the auspices, of course, in some way also the mayor. We believe that such a solution should also remain. As for the dilemma, as to how many volunteer firefighters and how many professional firefighters participate, we are, of course, prepared to discuss this and to coordinate ourselves in the context of the third hearing. We therefore propose that this amendment should be fully adopted in Article 1. At the same time, I withdraw the amendment, which was tabled on 26.6. It turns out that this amendment, tabled today, replaces and replaces the amendment, has been tabled on 26.6. So much for that. If the amendment is adopted, we will also try to take into account the proposal, which has been subsequently formulated today, in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision, as I explained. We first decide on the amendment to Article 1 of which the drafter is the LDS Group of Members, of 28.6.2001, and amends the whole text of Article 1. We're voting. Because of the inconclusiveness - which, I do not think is due to the presence in the Chamber, I think we are here more - we decide on the second amendment to Article 1. I ask you politely to allow a vote by pressing one of the keys. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 1 has been amended in its entirety. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 of the basic bill, which is to delete the second paragraph of Article 59. Article 2 shall be put to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3, which regulates the period of validity of this law, that is, 1.1.2002. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank the Ministry of Defence very much for its cooperation, including representatives of the Secretariat. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Information and Communication Network. We expect a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much among us. Would you like a word on the bill? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members were present, 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 0.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Ministerial Declaration on Trade in Information Technology Products within the framework of the World Trade Organization. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if it is opposed by at least 1/3 of the Members present. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 19. On behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the draft law on the ratification of the Multiannual Agreement on the financing between the Commission of the European Communities in the name of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the discussion, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, conclude that the assembly will vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Such a proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the suppression of more serious criminal acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I propose that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. The draft decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the King of Norway on the Consolidation of the Longer Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I shall re-examine and decide on the proposal to the national assembly to decide, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 - not to repeat all the warnings. Does anyone want to discuss this decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. We didn't make it through the vote. I ask you politely to press one of the keys when we vote. I think we're good enough in the hall, so we're going to make a full decision on the proposal for a law. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the repayment of certain debts. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the assembly decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! Again, we did not succeed in the first vote on the bill as a whole, so I ask colleagues who are close to joining us. Once again, I respectfully ask that by pressing one of the keys we allow for a valid vote. This is the second time we have voted on the proposed law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on police cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, I propose that the assembly decide in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on cooperation against organised crime, illegal trafficking in children, psychotrophic substances and previous ingredients, terrorism and other serious criminal acts. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, I propose that the assembly decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the return and readmission of persons who do not fulfil the conditions for entry into or stay in the territory of another State. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph, decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 213 of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. At 4 p.m. this evening, after the meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy also has, on the agenda of the meeting, a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on vast traffic and cooperation of 26 It's a day's work. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the previous mandate, the Committee on International Relations considered this Agreement and positively identified it both at its 32nd and 50th meetings. However, the Committee on Foreign Policy has not yet decided on the ratification of this law in this mandate. He started the debate. He cut off the debate. We are still missing a final decision, so I propose that we postpone this point to the time when the mother's working body will be redefined by this agreement and formally endorse the conclusions adopted by the Committee on International Relations of the previous reference.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. So we move on to 27. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a code on classified information. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The National Assembly began its consideration of the draft law at its 6th session, first discussing the proposal by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members to reopen the draft law but did not adopt the proposal. Therefore, we continue with the second reading. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 45 are present, which means that we are not concluding and will vote on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the second time. We'll vote next time. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the latest review of the amendments you just received on the bench. This is a review of the amendments dated 28.6.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment to this article, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 42 of us present, or I think there are more of us in the hall, so I respectfully ask you to repeat the vote by pressing on any of the buttons. For the second time, we are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 3. Let's vote! I find that the State Assembly is in a position to hold a second vote, so I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll continue our work at 4:26 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	I ask the honourable Members and Members to take their seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 3. Please also do not have a Member there at the door to vote, please, on the amendment to Article 3. [[...]] There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members present, 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The article was adopted. We have a new Article 3a, a new Article 3a. Anybody want to talk? Excuse me? I'd like to ask the MP first. Mr. Jeroshvek!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Since the first one is not here at this time, I would only point out that among these signatories, the majority of the members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission are here and that we want to correct the inconsistencies of this article, which prescribes that the group, institution and individual and the official are allowed access to classified information without permission and that there is no such commission. However, if the Commission wishes to exercise this control over the work of security and intelligence services, it may only exercise it in such a way as to have access to classified information.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Do any other Members want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give my word to the minister, Dr. Bohintz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Only that would I point out that Article 3 governs which individuals may have such access without permission to access classified information. Article 3 does not refer to bodies or institutions. Thus, the whole concept of the law is not based on the fact that permission should be obtained by commissions, bodies, institutions - anyone. In short, it is not such an arrangement to allow authorities to require authorisation under this law. So it would be possible to add only one of the organs here, a little bit unusual, or throw it out of the concept. I repeat, none of the authorities need permission under this law. In addition, Members shall be exempt from the obligation to obtain such authorisation in the third indent of this Article. This also applies, of course, to members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, which means that Members, including members of that body as individuals, do not need permission. For this reason, it does not seem reasonable for us to accept this amendment, because, in fact, this would mean that we are extending the concept of the law to individual authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member of Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Members and Members of Parliament would like to ask for support for this amendment as a result of the fact that any Member may introduce a law and the Monitoring Commission cannot. And when we go to oversee the work of security and intelligence services, let us stop either at the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior or at the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency and bring it there, not this Member and this for supervision, but the monitoring commission. As a result, the Commission, which oversees the legality of the work of these services, which mainly deal with secret documents, should be the one that should be exempted and should have access to work, this committee of the National Supervisory Assembly, that is, all of us, to this data. And in this case, I think it is appropriate for us, Mr Minister, to make an exception and for this commission - that is, the Commission of the National Supervisory Chamber - to allow that, even if the act is signed - this and this Commission will come forward and this is required - to enable it, but not then to require, as every Member specifically, this right given by the law in Article 3. Therefore, honourable Members, I would ask you to have effective control so that it is not as it has been in the past to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you. Member Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Well, I understand the wishes of the signatories to this amendment. As a lawyer, I'm going to say, I disagree with him because he's inconsistent, which is what the Minister has already pointed out. But there's something else I'd like to say. We can write down what we want in here until the practice with us and the conjecture, so to speak, to the members of the Security and Intelligence Committee will change, until then no law, no norm can help us. So, no harm in writing this down, it's just going to be a little bit of pleonazem, and I don't think it's going to be necessary, and there's not going to be any change in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Please, Member Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	With the opinion of my colleague, Mr Lavrinc, I could not agree that this would be inconsistent. In fact, it is proposed that the articles be renumbered. We know that in Article 3, natural persons are, but in the view of the members of the Commission who are aware of the difficulties they face in their work, it is essential to do so. This is not the wish of any special rights or special powers of this Commission. This is something completely normal, which is why I feel even less that such an article would be a pleonazem, as my colleague Lavrinc thinks. I think it is wise to support such an article, especially because we are a national assembly; in fact, our reputation in this area also depends on whether we will be able to exercise this effective control. We know that this is extremely difficult because we are professionally fed in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	I would like to point out that this matter will not make the law unconstitutional, but it will only be for one where it should be self-evident that it has access to this information, that it is enshrined in the law and that these people can carry out their function as they must. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is no coincidence that we do not have a commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in Slovenia for another ten years, since, as in this case, these services have always been opposed to such solutions as would facilitate the work of control. And we're always empty space. This Commission shall act in accordance with what is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is appropriate to allow colleagues who are in or who will be in here in a few years' time to work effectively in this area. So I'd like to ask you to support this amendment. And if, because it's the second treatment, they think it's really something that would seriously undermine the consistency of the law - which I don't believe is such a thing - then at third reading, we could fix it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Replica Member Lavrinc, followed by Ambassador Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	I think we don't even listen here anymore. No one said it would seriously undermine the consistency of the law and so on. He will. Please read Article 3, read Article 4, what they mean. One, Article 3 states those who will have this right by taking office. Article 4 - these are all general provisions. It's written down what classified information is and so on. I am sure that if a similar norm were not similar, even more precise, or even an entire law, so if there was a will in the national assembly, gentlemen, we are also Members of the law we can propose. Where there is a will, there is a way. I therefore believe that a law should be adopted to regulate the status of this commission. I was a member of the previous term myself. I agree with all the objections and criticisms at the expense of impeachment, so to speak, it works. In the previous term, I hope to add this to my hope that we have been lucky enough to have not been excited about any more serious work in the President's National Assembly. Now they are - I will vote for this amendment myself, don't be afraid, I will vote to comfort you. But it doesn't belong here, which I'm sure of.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ambassador Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I let myself think a little bit of vocabulary about this amendment, which is likely to be voted or not, and came after as an integral part of the law. When I read this text: "access to classified information without permission, to access classified information" - it's like I'm repeating myself. Now I don't know how much we can fix. If we say "access to classified information without permission has, in the exercise of its role of control of the Commission" and beyond. When we repeated one part of this sentence and in this text, which is now, the matter becomes even a little incomprehensible. And I suggest that, if possible, we correct this text by drawing up "access to classified information". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to point out that an amendment to Article 3 has already been adopted, where the applicant has already slightly corrected the text of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	He reiterated his view that I do not object in any way to the content of the regulation as proposed in the amendment, and I fully understand the legitimate position of this Commission that it has access to classified information without authorisation. This seems perfectly normal and acceptable to me. However, I would like to point out once again that this law regulates the issue of obtaining licences on the basis of a preliminary security check for persons employed in a public administration. This is the subject of this law. And that all those who have access to or may be admitted to such work on the basis of a prior safety review of this permit have the right to be assigned to such a job. This is the starting point of this marriage, this is the idea of this marriage. Of course, some of these permits are exempt. These are the officials listed here: Members, ministers, presidents, the Court of Auditors and so on. This is the area of regulation of this law. It is not an area of regulation of this law to determine the rights, competences of various commissions, institutions, national councils, governments in this area. Since, according to the analogy, we should probably exclude the government from the authorisation requirement, and probably the Parliament, and the prosecutions, and so on. All the same arguments for this are likely for these other institutions. But this law does not regulate the rights of institutions in this area, but regulates the rights and obligations of persons after prior security checks, with the exception of those listed in Article 3. I'm just explaining that we understand how consistent this proposal is. However, I repeat, I absolutely agree that this Commission should have access, and I do not see any serious arguments against this, and I accept this by content. But I'm afraid that's not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see two. Replics, I'm sorry. Jerovšek, Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u160	I take note of the Minister's explanations, but I would point out some differences and also the logical consequences. In fact, I am afraid that if this article were not adopted, if the law on the control of secret services were to be adopted, there could be problems if there were no such clauses in this law, that law could also be, in some way, 'time to shoot aircraft', so that it would not be operational enough. In my opinion, this commission, of course, is not a collective body. Here every decision must be taken by a decision. Therefore, the essential difference between - for example, the Prime Minister or all others listed here - can then delegate the obligations created by knowing something through this access. The Commission, if it does not have this access, is very limited, in my opinion. Once again, I appeal to the Members that we accept such an article in the second reading and that - in my opinion, your lawyers and everyone will consider it until the third reading. But I don't think that, by any means, we're going to cause harm to this law and to all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u162	It seems to me that and would not, Mr. Secretary, you could understand that from your words. So, you said: I don't object to the content, the content is very good, but I think it's normal and acceptable that this commission, wherever it comes from, will give it to her. But I tell you that officials are "up here" even in such things, and that we have already had a lot of problems and references to the law, that we have come to certain things in the past history. Some of them are exploitative because the legal area was not well done - you remember that some commission, not just this one, but it was investigative, has also made a proposal for an appeal against a responsible member of the government because he did not want to give the data that should be received. It seems to me that at least, if you agree and you don't see any problems, you would now support this at this hearing, secondly, and drink until the third reading so that when the commission applies unannounced at a certain office or a certain intelligence service, it can then be surrendered, but not that there will be three or four hours sitting on a ministry or a service there, and then materials from which it appears to be possible to bring them in within five or ten minutes, but that time is raised by doubts in the members of the commission whether what it requested and received is indeed credible or not. I think that we need to adapt the legislation in such a way that the Commission, which oversees the National Assembly, will have all the power to prevent us from saying that we will not be speaking in the provinces about what happened to the arms theft in Postojna, what happened to the sale of arms to Croatia, what happened to the disappearance of the van, and that once a national assembly will also be able to obtain a report from a commission with sufficient powers to look at what was going on in the background of services beyond which there is no control.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new Article 3a. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, 37 for, against 10. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the amendment to the new Article 3a has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? He wants to discuss Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u164	I just want to say that our position is that this amendment is acceptable. And the same is true - that I will not advertise later - even for Article 14, because they are in a relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 30, for 15. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. 42 Members and Members are present. Since there are many more in the Chamber, we will repeat the vote. We are voting on Article 10 as a whole. We're voting, please. There's no such thing as a conclusion. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue at 5:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u166	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Once again, I ask Members and Members to take their seats. We are moving to a vote on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote, please, for the third time! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 40, 7 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that Article 10 has been adopted. We're dealing with Section 14. Would anyone please discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 14. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 17. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Please, please, please, please, please, We still vote on Article 14 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 11. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that Article 14 has been adopted. We have section 21 under consideration, two amendments that are being excluded. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is normal for these amendments to be excluded because this amendment is due to the fact that, in Article 42, we are proposing not to set up a special Office for the Control of Secret Data or, as the Government now proposes, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Office for the Protection of Secret Data. For we believe that the Ministry of the Interior has already been adequately equipped with its services to carry out what is supposed to be done by this office. And we're against the hypertrophy of different offices, agencies. We know that at the suggestion of the government and others, we have already established an enormous number of agencies, funds and offices. In this area, we believe that there is absolutely no need for action in order for a specific office to be established. There is also Article 22 in this connection, as I have already said, but this is set out in Article 42, and I think it is wise that we are rational and that we are not, in fact, extending it in some way, because that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u168	Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is with the minister, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to this amendment, I must reiterate the proposaler's position not to support it at this stage. However, let me just add that this was one of the issues on which there were a lot of professional discussions and also a lot of in-depth political opinions on the government itself. We have heard very different views on this at the consultation on this law. In particular, in the Member States of NATO, about half of 19 countries have organised special offices, and the other half organises this in one of the ministries. The political assessment in the government has led to the question of giving so much responsibility and competence to one ministry itself, namely the Ministry of the Interior, which would, on this basis, if we did not set up an office, have a security check on everyone, virtually all employees in the state administration, wherever they are already employed. She therefore experienced support for the idea that, however, a government office should be established, which - except for police and military personnel or both ministries - would carry out security checks for other employees. Such is the attitude that prevailed. From an expert point of view, one or the other view is possible. We, as it is said, have identified ourselves for the office to be established and propose that this solution be supported at this stage. It also refers to this article of the Government's amendment, where it is more about the Office being renamed the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Secret Data. The fact that a government amendment has also been tabled suggests that this debate can be resumed in the third reading or that we can finally make a decision then. For the time being, I would remain in the position of the government and suggest that you support the position of the government and not this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Yasha Naughty!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u171	Can I explain my vote now or is this against the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u172	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u173	Indeed, I fully understand the intentions of the Social Democratic Party, because the Ministry of the Interior has more weight than an office. But in practice, it's the other way around. If we refer to the Ministry of the Interior, this is some impenetrable maze where responsibility can be transferred from one to the other. I myself have had very poor experience on the basis of my former parliamentary experience. While this office, if it is responsible for this, will not be able to take responsibility for anyone: neither for the Ministry of the Interior nor for any other organisation. Therefore, I personally think that it is better to keep this Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of classified information rather than to address the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 11 for, against 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The amendment to Article 22 is therefore irrelevant. We are voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 40, one against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 45, one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 21 has been adopted. We're looking at paragraph 24. Anybody want to talk? He does, Ambassador Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. In order to add the fourth paragraph of Article 24, we propose that the volume of persons being screened should be reduced. In fact, Article 24 provides that persons who have access to data marked by the degree of confidentiality of "internal" are also subject to security checks. We don't think that's necessary, because costs will be reduced. You also know that in relation to this law we have also warned that a method of security verification may also be questionable from the point of view of personal data, personal data breaches, and it is of no importance that the group of persons who are being screened should be distributed needlessly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dr. Bohinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u177	We do not oppose this amendment, given that it is also a legal solution, one way or another. This is specifically regulated in Article 3 in the second paragraph, where it is explicit that all persons performing functions or working in the body have access to classified data to the level of "internal". It's an order from this law. The amendment is, in fact, only further explained, reinforced, so we do not oppose it. It may not be necessary at all, but as we say, we do not object.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u178	Ambassador Zląbec, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u179	I fully agree with the intentions of my colleague Jerovšek, I have only worked for seven years and more in the ministry where each other's document had a "confidential" stamp and none of us have been screened for safety. I would narrow it down even more to - because "classified" today is every paper at the Ministry of the Interior. Each secretary is dealing with classified documents that have lost all the weight of their confidentiality. That's why I'd take it seriously, but this confidentiality aside from the internal, would also simply be thrown out and left only "strictly secret" and "secret". Because this confidentiality - it is already such a tide of this confidentiality that, as I say, every other paper has the designation "confidential".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 24. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members present. Thirty-seven, six. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 24 as a whole. We're voting, please. 46 Members and Members present. For 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 24 was adopted. We move on to Article 29, two amendments. Does anyone want to discuss it, please? Please, Member Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u181	As you can see, we are proposing the deletion of this Article, because this article provides that the head of the body may, in exceptional cases, temporarily allow that person access to classified information before the completion of the security check. If we agree in this country that it is extremely important that people who have access to confidential or data marked by a level of "strict secret" then it is not wise to make exceptions, because exceptions are usually then extended and the law is instantaneous. I don't think there should be such an emergency.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. Bohinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u183	We would like this article to remain simple for the reasons that life creates from the outside. It is essentially a permit that the chairman may grant to a person already in the security clearance phase. This means that the chairman also has a questionnaire on the basis of which he may be familiar with all the circumstances relating to that person. This decision is temporary, that is, only until a security check has been definitively carried out and a decision has been taken on it. It is simply life-explanatory to suggest that such an exception would be, while NATO standards allow such an extremely premature possibility of granting an authorisation. In this way, I would suggest that we do not delete this Article and that the exception remains.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! If this amendment is adopted, the next amendment will be irrelevant. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote please! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 29 as a whole. Let's vote please! There are 47 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 29 has been adopted. We move on to the amendment to Article 32. Anybody want to talk? Minister Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u185	We support this amendment because it seems to us that it clearly defines the purpose of this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u186	I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, 1 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on Article 32 as a whole. Let's vote, please! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, 2 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 32 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 42 and to the two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. Please! There are 50 Members and Members present, 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, 40, 2 vs. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 42 as a whole. Let's vote, please. There are 46 Members and Members, 43, against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Article 42 was adopted. We move on to article 44, where there is an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Come on, please, calm down. There are 51 Members and Members present, 11 for, 36 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment was not accepted. We still vote on Article 44 as a whole. Let's vote, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 43, 2 vs. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Article 44 was adopted. We move on to Article 45, where there are two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Minister, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u187	With regard to the first amendment to Article 45, we do not oppose this amendment. The Minister of the Interior's consent is added. As for the second amendment, I think it is irrelevant after the decisions already made.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u188	I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the first amendment. Let's vote, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 44, against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Mr. Secretary, I take it you said the second amendment was irrelevant. Can you explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u189	The deletion of the third paragraph is proposed here, but given that the Office remains because a government proposal has been adopted, the deletion does not apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u190	Okay, thank you very much. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 9, 42 vs. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Article 45 as a whole. Let's vote, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 50, one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 45 was adopted. We are moving on to Article 47 and the amendment to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss it, please? Yes, Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u191	They would suggest that this amendment should not be accepted because it essentially contains a sanction in case we do not introduce a new classification of secrecy within a two-year period. In fact, sanctions are the cessation of this secrecy and the amendment advocates that there is no sanction. We believe that we should stay in order to actually enforce the law within two years in the manner that its standards dictate, so we propose not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 47. Let's vote, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 10 for, 36 for. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Article 47 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Looks like there hasn't been enough attention, so we're voting next time. Let's vote, please. Unfortunately, this vote did not work either. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue at 5:37.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u193	I call on the Members and Members to take their seats. Once again, I call on Members of Parliament and Members to come to the Chamber. This is the third time we have voted on Article 47. Let's vote, please! Article 47, let's vote for the third time. 50 Members and Members present. For 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 47 was adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and vote on the remaining articles. Let's vote, please. There are 50 Members and Members present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The remaining articles were adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. 52 Members and Members present. For 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The title of the law was adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I shall put the motion to the vote. Let's vote, please. 55 Members and Members present. For 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, that's a first-aid amnesty law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Miha Wohinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u194	Chairman, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for an amnesty law has been submitted by the government primarily because this year we are celebrating the 10-year anniversary of our country's independence, and this is because of this amnesty, which is part of the jubilee amnesty. In the last 10 years, there has been no amnesty law and, of course, it has not been granted to anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u195	I'm asking Members and Members of Parliament to calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u196	Otherwise, the aim of the amnesty is to act on the convicts involved in amnesty in the sense that they will not repeat crimes and thus also affect the prevention or reduction of crime in other convicts. Amnesty is partial. So it's only going to involve some convicts. It will not cover those who are written in Article 2 of the proposal, namely those who have committed the most dangerous crimes against society and for whom, of course, society at its best cannot have this good will to amnesty them. All others will be amnesty, as a rule, in principle for a quarter of the sentence imposed, except for certain categories which are to be amnesty for one fifth of the penalties imposed. These are special returnees, older convicts over 60 and those sentenced to juvenile imprisonment. There's very few of them, both old and juvenile. With this act, the amnesty finally proves its state, I would say legal stability, because it can offer a hand to those persons who have violated social standards for that reason or for that reason, but not to the extent that they could not be amnesty for at least part of the sentence. I wouldn't talk about numbers, because by the time the law is passed, if it's adopted, they're definitely going to change. However, in the current state of convicts or convicted persons who are serving sentences in our prisons, there were 766 of them on yesterday, who are estimated to be well half of them, taking into account those who are not yet on leave, and their punishment is already legal or legal, and those who are on probation. And also just an assessment, by acceptance, by implementing the amnesty law would be immediately released from 30 to 40 convicts. On behalf of the proposer, I propose to the National Assembly that the proposal be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Lavrinc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u198	The report before us is hard to add. All I can say is that we've been dealing mainly with two things, and these two of our concerns have actually turned into positions. I therefore propose that you support both decisions and, of course, both views when voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Nobody's signed up yet. [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one has signed up for writing and therefore I limit the debate to five minutes. Member Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I would like to ask a representative of the government about this bill or try to ask a question if he would answer me. Of course, in principle, I certainly agree with his presentation of the bill and also with the law itself as such, in principle I agree. However, I would ask whether there may be some reason to propose such a law and to enact such a law even in that we somehow lack space in prisons. Because we no longer have space and it is necessary to somehow reduce the number of prisoners, so that the city will be freed and we can get or we can put new prisoners back in these premises. That's one question. The second question is whether these new facilities, new prisons that are supposed to work somewhere in some super-locations, somewhere at sea, are not ready for those that will be condemned in the near future, which are said to be lords with ties that have run wildly owned, etc., or whether these gentlemen have not already prepared these luxury prisons at such super-locations. This may be a question if it can be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you. Do any other Members want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Miha Wohinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your word. I must say so to Mr Kelemini. As far as the first question is concerned, one would really expect that the overcrowding of our prisons, which we have been talking about a lot lately, could also be the reason. But I have to say, there's no reason for that. If there was a reason for this, then I could tell you that a month ago - I am also leading a committee for conditional layoffs, where institutions propose convicts for conditional leave, I have to say that there were so few positive suggestions in the Department of the Age that I was wondering how this is possible, given that they have a pre-standard pre-filled office. Thus we never had before us to empty the prisons in such a way; we would not gain many, nor would we gain them with amnesty. As for the second question, the issue of prison in Cyprus, which has been more recently, I would say the subject of interviews. In Cyprus we build new prisons for a very simple reason because the current prison in the Monastery of St. Ana, which is the cultural object of the first category, is denationalized and already returned to the Franciscan as owner. As a result, it was necessary to build a new prison. There have been several projects, especially with regard to capacity. We stopped somewhere at 120 to 150 beds. Regarding the object itself and its luxuries: if we build an object in an urban settlement, of course the architect’s word is decisive, what this object will be like to fit into this environment [[in Cyprus, this case]] . That's why we can't afford a barracks, so to speak. It is true, however, that the proposed facade from the Pohorian tonalite was because such an object would fit into this environment, but we said, we can only have this money. That's how the facade's gonna be. Then there were other questions as to whether they were one - and two - bedroom rooms. True, we would have done them everywhere if we had the chance - that is the European standard. The entire building was built on the basis of European standards, 9 square metres for a convict, what we are not actually achieving anywhere, except on Igu in a women's prison, where the castle has large halls and a small number of convictions. Well, then there was also talk about fitness, like a particular luxury, and I'll tell you the truth, fitness is the balm for convicts; in it, as I say, they consume the energy they still have. Our convicts are young, you know - before I said that there would be older convicts over 60 to receive amnesty, we have three in our prisons, which are over 60 years old, three convicts at this time. So everything else, their main lifespan, is the most creative, between the ages of 20 and 35, of course, requires some relaxation; this has long been established. If we look at modern prisons across Europe, not to mention Scandinavia in particular, these are central facilities, nicer, better equipped than many of our fitness, for which we pay dearly the rent if we go into it, it is not a particular luxury either. However, I fear that this prison in this trend, whatever it may be, in the trend of increasing convicts, will soon be full and full. Given the fact that we have a directive on placing convicts on probation, there is no reason, of course, for any of the convicts who are supposed to count in the category you mentioned not to have landed quite nicely at the Age, given the length of the sentence. Of course, later they move closer to home. But at least so far there has been no talk about it, at least a serious discussion about the fact that a particular category of convicts in this only yet new prison, which is in sight, in a year or two, will be built for this purpose. There's something else I have to say. Just by the way. If only we had convicts, then we could easily meet European standards as far as survival is concerned. But look, with 766 convicts, we also have 370 prisoners who are except for the Age in all other prisons, and we have 60 administrative prisoners. Thus this sums up over 1250, who must sleep, eat, work, and live each day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Replica by Ambassador Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much for a truly comprehensive answer to my question. But I'm afraid I have some concerns about such representations. Actually, I have to admit, I didn't go to jail much, and I don't know what these conditions are. But it is known that it has, say, America [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u205	Mr. Kelemina! I'm begging you! That's not the topic of the law that you're discussing right now. It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u206	Yes, it is. I can't just say with one word what I want. I have certain things to argue with. That's what this is about. I wanted to say, as I know, America has a lot of prisoners, given the population. According to the information I have or the idea I have about this, I see that those prisons are completely different from ours or, above all, this standard that we will now offer in this new complex. Then I also wonder, because in these circumstances life conditions are actually going to be significantly better than in normal life, if such a standard is guaranteed in advance, if it does not encourage people to make conflicts just to come into a better life than they actually have in reality today. To the Toggers. So I thought I'd ask if it wasn't possible that we might be putting a little too much into some high standard, although it's right that this standard is as high as possible, I'm afraid of the negative consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u208	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to express my disappointment at Mr Kelimino, whom I consider to be another very good Member, and he has not worked so hard to read the report. On the other hand, it's somewhere in the middle of the second paragraph that we discussed these things on the committee. I therefore propose that such discussions be brought to the labour market. There's a place for you to ask yourself something that goes by. At the same time, I must inform my fellow Members that the prisoners have repeatedly addressed the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee - this is me - because of the poor conditions in prisons, overcrowding and the like. As for the last one, someone commits a crime in order to spend the winter in prison, Mr Kelemina, these are pasta, old stories, as much as the old country, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you. Kelemina, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u210	Yes, thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would only say that to Mr Lavrinc, because he is right and I apologize if I may have said too much, but unfortunately I cannot follow everything, I am not a member of this committee, and in all this work I have simply failed to consult my colleagues, so I apologize. But I also have some kind of right maybe some things that I couldn't express through the parliamentary group and on the committee that I'm trying to get information here in the National Assembly. Otherwise, I agree with his opinion. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-28-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I am putting to the debate a decision, the first decision of the parent working body, which is: Amnesty law proposal, first of all, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude, we vote on this decision. Please, we're voting. 48 Members and Members present. 45 for, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The decision was adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Does anyone want to discuss these views? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on these positions. Please. I'm asking for some patience. While I hope they fix this equipment, I'd like to give you the next message. We will begin the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m. with agenda item 29 and then proceed with the 30th and orderly course. I ask that we once again vote on the positions. Please, we're voting. There are 50 present for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The views were adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank all the participants.
