ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Andrej Gerenčer, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Aurelio Juri, Bogomir Vnučec for the afternoon part of the session, Zmago Jelinčič, Majda Potrata, Valentin Pohorec from 12.00 p.m. onwards, France Tuckati for the afternoon part of the session. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards and press "quorum". Thank you very much. 39 we were supposed to be in the hall, but when I started the session, I counted us as 47, so we're going to redo the conclusion. Please, let's press the quorum. 51 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, and I welcome them very much. Today's session of the 9th session of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language; then we will move on to the 16th item - the proposal for a strategy for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006; and then, in order to move forward. Yesterday, we were 15. DISCONTINUED in the presentations of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Širca, Mr Brenčič, Mrs Simšič, Mr Drobnič and Mr Štemberger have also applied in the order in which these presentations are now being carried out. Mrs Shirca has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Thank you for your word. The law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language could be adopted without moral reservations by means of a rapid procedure, perhaps without legal reservations, since the Constitution obliges us to adopt it with all three commands on equal opportunities and non-discrimination, and we are also bound by the declaration on the rights of persons with disabilities, the resolution on sign language and other acts, and finally commits us to this everyday life. Why do we say in the LDS that we could adopt the bill quickly, or more precisely, why do we say that it would be very good if it were quickly adopted? First of all, the law is almost consensual. So it is aligned with both users and performers and with the competent ministry. Secondly, in LDS we believe that it is prepared sufficiently, because it means the implementation of the constitutional right to education, work and equal opportunities for deaf or deaf people who know sign language. Thirdly, the bill has found a compromise solution that is appropriate for our situation and is also appropriate for other countries, and in some cases even better. At least in case of payment arrangements for interpreters. Because in some countries, for example, they pay the costs of interpreters who are deaf or non-governmental organisations themselves; sometimes the costs of interpretation services are paid by the government, they can also be paid by local communities; elsewhere, the country settles only the costs of interpreters in employment, which is certainly discriminatory to other access to public information; somewhere they do not have a register of interpreters; again, interpreters are trained professionally; elsewhere, the agencies for interpreters remain; somewhere the interpreters have only obligations in court and on the police, in short, not everywhere. In short, solutions are very different. We believe that our proposal is a suitable choice of good foreign examples.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u3	Sorry to interrupt. But it's really indiscreet that at a time when a colleague represents a position, you talk on the phone, that's how you talk out loud. Please! Let's follow some rules of the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe we should use the Deaf Sign System. In short, we believe that the proposal is a suitable choice of good, foreign examples. In short, it does not take into account those who are not really appropriate, but it certainly would not be constitutional in our system. Above all, with regard to the right to a free interpreter in key places. At the same time, with the solutions provided by law, those who use and know how to use a sign system have the right to apply for an interpreter in public places. With this system, the applicant found another additional solution, which is quite correct. However, it is possible for them to have a right to an additional 10 hours free of charge, which can be used by each of the approximately 2,500 deaf people, as far as they are recorded around us. Which means that we are facing about 68 million, which we hope the competent ministry in the coming budgets has assured them that we would not face a similar situation as we did yesterday when we passed the library law, but we have not yet faced the proposed funds as a consequence of this law. However, the second reading could also be seen as additional adjustments in terms of the possibility of reconsidering or at least absorbing solutions on the roles of those key partners that perform the role of so-called translators, custodians and planners now and without law. It is mainly about the association of interpreters of sign language who do their work with surpluses - I can say. So they are not only concerned about education, interpretation, education and interpreters, but also planning and also - at least recently they have even taken care to unify the signs and issue of the Slovenian sign language, i.e. the dictionary. Furthermore, these very active societies or associations, including the association of deaf societies and also the social chamber, are involved in this triangle, which already exists, if I add the Ministry as a quadrilateral as the last page, the Slovenian language expert council enters this law, which they would not want to take away the credibility of the agencies so far. This is a true relationship, with the interpreters, the association and the chamber. At the same time, the second reading would also consider the possibility that deaf people with student status, perhaps a student or a student, would have the option of additional hours, in addition to these ten to use an interpreter. The fact is that the minority of those affected by education is extremely disadvantaged and consequently less educated. Of course, we should also open up the issue of education for interpreters, which may be somewhat circumvented or even bypassed by this law, as well as other ways to facilitate access to information for this segment of the population. In short, we support the LDS law and expect it to be translated into a second reading as soon as possible, within which we will probably have to repeat on the Committee an open debate and explain the rules of the game that this law brings, but at least some parties did not understand them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor, on behalf of the SLS+SKD. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. However, in the SLS+SKD Group, the Slovenian People's Party warmly welcomes the fact that the first disability protection law has been introduced into the procedure during this time. We expect that this law, the proposal, will be followed by several other proposals which are urgently needed for the normative, statusal and other purpose of the use or regulation of disability protection. In our opinion, the bill on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language is well prepared. Also because the scope of the sign language has been so far thanks to us, especially the associations of deaf and deaf Slovenia, within which the Slovenian interpreters' association works and also thanks to the Slovenian Social Chamber, has been quite well serviced and therefore a relatively good basis for the preparation of the law has been established. In addition, it is important to welcome the fact that, within the Ministry of Disability Care, there is more to this mandate, I would say, professional and other physical support for disability protection, so we hope that this area will continue to be played. That is why we also believe that it would be useful to include actively in the preparation of the law on second reading, by law as an actor in the implementation of the law - in addition to the newly established professional council - the association of interpreters of Slovenia and the social council of Slovenia; in particular, in the sense that what has already worked well and is also, I would say, the results are quite good, to upgrade, to complement and perhaps not to duplicate, and to delegate, some tasks to some new bodies that may need to be further qualified and also to define to matter itself. In the SLS Group, we expect the proposer to follow or take into account, when preparing the proposal for a second reading, or at least examine the arguments that have been put forward both on the Committee for Work, on Social Affairs, on the family, on the disabled and on the labour force as well as here in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law, of course, we support and expect that the draft law will be put into another reading procedure almost immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United Kingdom, Mrs Danica Simšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that, after being engrossed, there is almost no noticeable law, which has the title of the Proposal for a Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language, of great importance not to say the utmost importance for ensuring equal opportunities for deaf and deaf people in our country. In the fact that the need for communication, i.e. the need for communication, one fundamental human needs, as well as rights, constitutes the application of the constitutional principle laid down in Article 14 of our Constitution, which defines equality before the law and where it states that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation or any other personal situation. Deafness or deafness is certainly a personal circumstance, a personal circumstance that, at first glance, causes further problems for many people because of their invisibility or invisibility. However, the law, which covers only 31 articles, defines or legitimizes three fundamental elements that will ensure that deaf and deaf people are more equally integrated into the world of hearing. These are the three elements, which are also highlighted in the European Parliament's resolution. First, the recognition of sign language of the deaf, secondly: the right to use it, and thirdly: the recognition of the profession as a sign language. Without an official, that is, in the law of the established recognition of sign language, there may be a legitimate danger of the deaf being officially isolated. The official recognition of sign language is also important because sign language also has its characteristics. Like every language, it has its language structures and represents a living, complex system that is constantly changing and upgrading. It is therefore clear that the law must define not only a language, but also an appropriate professional body, which will monitor both the use and development of the language, monitor the education of interpreters and carry out a number of other tasks that are necessary if we really want the Slovenian sign language to be put aside by other languages; that is, our everyday Slovenian language, which in the country already has a diversified array of various professional institutions that care for the development and use of this language. Why does this seem so important to us in the United Nations Group? Simply because the sign language for a deaf child is the first language of communication to actually learn the Slovenian language, which means more equitable integration of the deaf into the world of sounds. So the law not only recognizes to the deaf the right to use language, but also the right to information in their adapted techniques, that is, by means of an interpreter. It is important that the law also defines and guarantees the right to use sign language of the deaf in all proceedings before public authorities, public authorities or public service providers. So in all these procedures. Not at the expense of the deaf, but at the expense of these operators, these state institutions or public institutions. And what was also important is that I think already mentioned by all the representatives - so far - of the groups of Members, that the deaf are also provided with an additional number of hours which they can redistribute during the year. Of course, it may be a question of whether these 10 hours are the right number or whether we can discuss this further. There is also a need to consider how to ensure, in particular for young people, an appropriate way of education. If this relatively good can be taken care of in the pre-school and compulsory school time with individualised programmes, it may be a little more difficult in both secondary and high levels. It is necessary to see whether this can be resolved in this or probably in another marriage. Maybe just a word or two about the interpreters' association. The fact is that in Slovenia we have an association of interpreters for sign language, which is very successful. Their work has so far been very successful and also recognized. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that both the legalisation of the language and its inclusion in the list of relevant professions will help to make the inclusion of deaf people more successful. Finally, it must be said that the law that we are dealing with today actually constitutes the legalisation of a good practice that may need to be upgraded in some things, and that it is not just a document that legitimizes culture or, if you want, a culture of communication, but I do not think that I am overreacting if I say that it is actually a civilisation law. We are pleased with the law in the UK Group of Members, we support it, we hope to adopt it as soon as possible, and at first reading we will unanimously support it with all the proposed positions of the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The positions of Nova Slovenije will be presented by mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u10	I very much welcome all fellow Members and fellow Members, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and other guests! In Novi Slovenija we are inclined to adopt this law. We feel that, in fact, this debt, our debt to those who have been in recent years, and even earlier, have sought to make things better for the deaf, more humanly. As my colleague has already mentioned before me, this civil society of the deaf, with the help of others who are affectionate and considerate and see these problems, has prepared a series of things in life, in practice, to facilitate the life and work of the deaf. This means, in fact, the legalisation of what has arisen is also a challenge and an opportunity to take a step forward. In view of the composition of the law in New Slovenia too, we believe that this law allows - so we are not just talking about constitutional rights, equality before the law and human rights defined by the Constitution; we must also talk about social rights, the social dimension of this law. This is something more that allows a higher level of equivalence or assistance to those who need it; thus, those needs are defined with specific problems, diseases or defects. In fact, for the first time, the law also establishes an official Slovenian sign language, thereby joining it to other sign languages and languages, if we say so, in the world. The importance of this area is also reflected in how many international organisations, whether the organization of the United Nations, the European Parliament, not to list others, to address this issue and to adopt certain resolutions or declarations - would not list them. The possibility of developing a Slovenian sign language for deaf people should be seen in this law. As the Slovenian language, word language, develops, so must sign language for the deaf, so that they can follow all this development in the technological field and others. Nevertheless, in our opinion in New Slovenia we believe that certain provisions need to be amended or upgraded. I'll be very specific. The Register of Interpreters - a double register of interpreters is actually introduced. I don't know, but this is necessary, and there may be some difficulties in registering this with the association and then with the Ministry of Disability. Then an association of interpreters, which should be given more clearly, may be in the form of a chamber, and thus also open up certain solutions regarding the issue of certificates, training, education of deaf people and training of interpreters. The use of sign language and the payment of services is somewhat questionable. On the one hand, they are very open, in principle opening up the use of language, and on the other hand, we know how to cover these needs with dignity, either with operators or with respect to financial obligations. I'm also fond of that third segment, so-called free use based on, I don't know, some clock account. Also a larger number of hours. However, it can be stuck to the principle level, but the implementation will create a problem: either that the state institutions do not provide these translators in a situation where they do not actually provide them. This can be a serious problem. There may also be more to say about the professional commission or the professional council, its composition, and its responsibilities, or tasks. As has already been said, in New Slovenia we will support the law and we will also prepare some amendments that would improve this text, the basic text, the law for the benefit of the deaf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger will speak on behalf of the Young People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. The law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language is certainly a necessary law, which should have been passed years ago, and will enable disabled people, who are said to be deaf and deaf, to live better lives among those who hear. In the field of disabled people, Slovenia is still far behind the most developed countries. There are opportunities for the deaf to exercise their rights anywhere and at any time without problems. For example, these countries offer to deaf and deaf people interpreters and recorders all the time their education and thus enable them to reach the desired profession and education. Such persons with disabilities are more likely to find a job and care for themselves after they have completed their education. For these reasons, Members of the Young Slovenia Party submitted a supplementary proposal to the proposed law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language, which would grant to deaf and deaf persons, students or students the right to additional hours of interpreters for sign language. The government, as a bill-maker, notes that there are very few deaf and deaf people who choose to study and study. This decision to study is certainly also affected by their disability, which is an additional problem in communicating with individual authorities and officials in colleges or schools. However, each study also entails additional costs for such a person. With this complementary proposal, we wish to make it easier for people with such a type of disability to have problems in their study. Certainly, the adoption of this proposal would allow the constitutional provisions governing equality among people, including in education, especially in persons with disabilities, to be met. The Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party will, of course, support and appeal to other Members to support our complementary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are no written submissions to the debate. The debate of other Members who have not applied in writing will therefore be limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have listened attentively to all of our representatives of these parliamentary groups yesterday and today. Everyone said more or less the same thing. I won't do it again, and I agree with them. I have to think about what the first speaker, Dr. Tuckati, is going to say: how will this law be in practice? In any case, we support it. But why am I saying that I listened well? Because no one here actually said what we would do with the Hungarian and Italian minorities. So, whether we remain deaf to the vis-a-vis them, although the title easily speaks of the Slovenian sign language. So it is understandable that this is only for the Slovenes, because it is not a specialty, deafness, only the Slovenes, but here and there also some Hungarians, such as the Italians may be deaf, ask the government or government representatives, what will we do with our minorities, say with deaf people belonging to the minority of Hungarian and Italian nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I also do not intend to repeat myself, given that something has already been said on behalf of our party's parliamentary group. I also wanted to ask myself at this point about the provision or exercise of rights by the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and I hope that the government will be able to answer this question. However, I would like to point out that little is needed in this country in order to help people who do not hear. For example, it has been the law since 1995 and 1996 when the Association of Interpreters started this initiative and was taken over by the then Ministry of Social Affairs in 1997 and started to form it. I think this arm was too long, but to not look back, I'd like to look ahead and say I'm surprised that these disabled people aren't helping in a simple way. When I'm abroad, in Strasbourg or Paris, I always watch French television, where all information shows are subtitled; not only are subtitles, but subtitles are even colored, so that the unheard can see which person is speaking [[red - first person, green - second and so on]] . And in view of this - I know that this is not a matter of this law, but of the television law - I wonder, given that most of the information shows on television are made in advance, which means that those who read reports read them with so-called "trotl-camera" or drums, and of course would be very welcome if these inscriptions or subtitles, which are written in such a way and so on, could also be played by non-hearing people in order to follow the daily-information broadcasts. And, of course, I hope that national television, and of course other commercial televisions, will follow these cases; in the West, this is the standard that no one goes past. Not to say, then, that we as political parties, with the exception of some who sometimes use this in different party conventions, are also forgetting the non-hearing and could also translate our performances or performances of politicians into them. Third thing I wanted to say. The interpreters’ association has been repeatedly told here today that their status should be further refined. Nevertheless, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, given that in the European Union such organisations are independent and are not within the organisations that are their users, I ask whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and this would be my wish - thinks in order for the Association of Interpreters to become an independent association; also as a legal person, who could then carry out his duties independently. In fact, I think this is absolutely necessary, not because of comparison with Europe or the developed world, but also because of the fact that it is an independent interpretation, because, of course, it is in some way bad that this organisation is within the organisation of those who are their users. I would, of course, also conclude my performance and, of course, I hope that the government will take note of the comments. I will also support those proposals that have been formulated both on the working body and on the additional proposal made by the youth party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I ask the representative of the Ministry - perhaps Mrs Tuttar is here? Undersecretary of State. Please, if you can get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much. A pleasant greeting, to all the Members, and to the Messengers, and to the guests. Perhaps I would first answer three questions from Members, taking into account the Italian and Hungarian ethnic minorities and their language. The law speaks of the Slovenian sign language. Another situation, which has led us to ignore different regulations for these minorities in the law, is that we do not have interpreters for Hungarian and for Italian in Slovenia, nor does anyone educate them and it would be very difficult to legislate something we do not have. With this regulation, which is proposed in the law, we legislate the Slovenian Sign Language, we legislate the right of interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language. In areas where the Italian and Hungarian nationalities live, however, the translator will be provided with these people, as is the case. We therefore believe that their constitutional rights are also guaranteed. About the subtitles on TV. We believe that we have also touched on this issue in this law, as the law also refers to the right to use other adapted techniques. This is also the use of high technology, computer technology in colleges, and there are also subtitles on television, and there are other techniques that enable us to integrate deaf people as equally as possible into everyday life. As regards the Association of Interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language, the Government also joins the opinion of the Member. In fact, the association must become a separate legal person in order to be able to carry out all these tasks which the law imposes on this association, and this is also a request from the government to an association that currently acts as a section in the society of deaf and deaf Slovenia. We do not have interpreters' associations for Slovenian sign language in Slovenia at the moment because we have a section in the society of deaf and deaf. However, the law provides for this association as a single legal person and an existing association to be transformed into this legal person. We expect that this will, of course, be until the second reading of the law. With regard to other comments, I would say that we will examine them until we have a second reading to prepare as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleagues for bringing us up to date on the issue of interpreters in minorities in our country. And I am pleased that the government will also study this in this regard. I understand the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State here, but I would like to add that, at the same time as we examine how this can be implemented, I think this would certainly be in the field of these agreements between countries; it is possible to examine this in this way. In this regard, I would like to propose that the Slovenian Government also examine how this new approach could enable me to be allowed by the Slovenians living outside our borders, especially in the ethnic area of our replacement. I think it is very positive that we also care for our citizens who are not our own kind who live in our territory. It is also important that we explore how such a service, which the government will now try to introduce for our citizens and citizens, can also be available to Slovenian foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not happy with that solution myself. Ms Simšičova quoted from the Constitution and, among other things, said that they had the right of all nationalities. And that's true, thank God you hold. I don't think that's the solution you're suggesting. I would have already changed the address, but it would only be a "sign language" without "Slovenian" because in Slovenia we live either way those who are Slovenians and those who are not. But before the constitution, we're all the same. I know there's trouble. I thank Dr. Bajuku, who said what he might say, but this solution is not good, not good. Personally and also with Mr Battelli and Mrs Possonchev, we may try to propose and arrange these things differently. But that shouldn't even happen. See, the first comment made by the secretariat was right on this, you have it written - how can a law, when it comes to the population of Slovenia, citizens of Slovenia, forget about two minorities, whether 300, 3,000 or 50,000, are here, are in the constitution, have rights, all of what we listened to yesterday, three or four times has been said, the constitutional rights that citizens of Slovenia have. And I don't think what you're suggesting is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u23	Who wants another word, please? [[No one else.]] Since no one wants to say another word, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law on the use of the Slovenian sign language, first reading, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law". Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to debate, I am closing this debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote, please! We're not concluding. Colleagues and colleagues who are near the hall, please join us so that they can vote. At the moment, there are 45 of us, as it appears. Please come to the hall. Next time we'll vote now, please. Let's vote, please! Of the 52 present, 52 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Of course, there is also a debate on the amendment to the complementary proposal, in fact, the position of the parent working body. So we're talking about two pieces. One is the position in the report and the other is the complementary proposal tabled by the Member, Mr Štemberger. These two are in the debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u24	There has obviously been one small mistake in this complementary proposal of mine, so I would just like to correct it. In fact, in the first line, I'd add two words at the end of the line: "Study the possibility." In fact, the supplementary proposal would then read as follows: "In preparing the text of the second reading law, the bill should examine the possibility of allowing a deaf or deaf person who has the status of a student or a student the possibility of additional hours of use of an interpreter for sign language for educational purposes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much for, what can I say, correcting your proposal. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Good. Then I conclude the debate on the proposed positions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions, first of all on the proposal that Mr Štemberger has just completed. So, I'm putting Mr Stemberger's proposal to the vote. Let's vote! Of the 55 present, 55 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that this position has been adopted. We will now vote on the Committee's views. Please, Mrs. Simšičeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u26	Mr Vice-President, I ask procedurally whether it is necessary because I would like to propose an additional decision to give it to you in writing, or whether I can orally propose it. In view of the debate that has taken place around here, I ask whether it is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u27	No, no, no. I'm asking you again not to have the same complication as it was yesterday. If you're so kind, take a look at the rules of procedure. Until the conclusion of the general debate, it is possible to put forward views, but once the general debate is concluded, there is nothing more to add. Please, if you're so kind, take that into account. So unfortunately, nothing can be added at this stage. We're in the voting phase. The general debate is closed. This is how we move to the vote on the positions of the parent working body. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 52 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 0.]] The Committee’s views are thus adopted and this point is concluded. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item three: Proposal for a strategy for the development of the labour market and employment for the year 2006. The draft strategy was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Labour who helped us get the previous point through. Thank you very much and at the same time I welcome representatives of the government, the ministry. And I'm asking you right now if you want the opening statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We have a third review of the strategic document for the development of the labour market by 2006. During the second and third reading, there were some more editorial corrections to the document itself and some elements of the document itself that followed the amendments submitted in the second reading. In particular, what I would like to point out is that during the summer months and in September we have prepared a document in such a form that it is appropriate, we estimate, for final reception and that we have entered into it all those comments that have been either amended or have been made somewhere through Parliament's own debates. And given that the need to draw up an action programme on this subject has already been highlighted in the previous debates of the Committee on Social Affairs, of course we would estimate that a document such as this would be suitable for today's reception, but that we have very key documents and work ahead of us to bring this document to life in the coming years. Which, of course, will require your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Stashi Baloh Plahutnik. The proposal for a strategy was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Mr Brenčič as rapporteur of the Committee and president. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. The draft law or strategy in the third reading was discussed by the working body at its 10th regular meeting on 9.10. On the basis of the initial opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and on the basis of the debate on the adoption of the agenda of the 9th regular meeting of the Committee, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia replaced the draft text of the strategy of 6.7.2001 with a new text, which included all those comments by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, and this replacement text was published in Rapporteur 76/2001, after which we also had a discussion on the working body. In the debate, members of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia raised a number of questions relating to the prioritisation of the implementation of the strategy, the shift of resources from passive to active employment policy, the provision of equal employment opportunities for women and men, the programmes and initiatives of local communities in the implementation of the strategy. On the basis of an extensive discussion, warnings and proposals by members of the Committee, the Committee rejected the amendments of the United Nations Group of Members to Chapter 2.3. Later, as you were informed with the material, this amendment withdrew. The Committee, on the basis of the debate and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, drafted and adopted the amendment to Chapter 2.4.2.1 and the amendment to the title of the act. After the discussion, the Committee also adopted the following conclusion: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a strategy for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006, thirdly, be adopted together with the amendments of the Committee." However, the mother labour body proposes to the national assembly for adoption an additional decision, but in the content as contained in the correction of the report of 24.10., this additional conclusion is: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, within three months, submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia an analysis of the effectiveness of the individual active employment policy measures covering the substantive and cost-effectiveness of the individual active employment policy measure." This correction is based on the established relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is determined by the revised report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to speak to the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I have one application here, Mr Štemberger, on behalf of the SMS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the fact that the strategy for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006 is being addressed, however, at this third reading. The content document, which sets out the key guidelines and measures in the area of labour market development and employment, will provide positive developments in the area of employment in our country prior to entry into the European Union under the condition of quality implementation. However, I repeat the condition of quality implementation. It is said that in the Young Slovenia Party, we again point out that we will not support dead letters on paper intended only for formal adaptation to European Union rules. We therefore expect the competent ministries to immediately approach the coordinated implementation of the content set out in this document if they do not yet. It should be borne in mind that, at the time of the global recession, which, according to recent data, is increasingly worrying in the European Union and, consequently, in the Slovenian economy, it is no longer possible to rely on the assumption that only the envisaged membership in the European Union will provide work, market and employment, but rather that an active role must be played by the country in the implementation of the relevant policy. The interdisciplinary approach to the implementation of this strategy should therefore in fact constitute a coordinated work between the competent ministries, the economy, state institutions, all the way to local communities and individual programme managers of this strategy. Analysis of the achievement of the objectives set should be carried out across the board and should form the basis for a simultaneous correction of the strategy and measures in order to avoid that projects that do not provide the intended objectives will not be supported indefinitely because some incorrect decisions will not be politically responsible. In addition to all the benefits of global globalisation, there is also unforgiving competition, which is certainly the most ruthless in the field of labour. It is therefore the task of the State to provide in advance for solutions and measures that will provide its citizens with competitive opportunities for work and creation. Here I am not only thinking of the growing pressure to exploit our economy in terms of providing cheap labour to more economically developed countries, but also of the increasingly pressing problem of casting out the most capable, educated, top-notch experts these countries have been able to acquire in their own kind in recent years. In the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia, we will also support the proposal for a strategy for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006 in third reading. However, we expect the government to make us aware of this and to take into account all the well-intentioned criticisms that we will certainly be referring to if we are not satisfied with the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! The strategy for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006 is practically nothing to be seen; it is development-oriented, European-oriented and has also survived the three governments or the old-new Drnovški government and the Bajuk government in a rather undisciplined form, of course, slightly adapted to the situation. That's right. This is also why we support this document in the Social Democratic Party. However, we are expressing certain concerns here, particularly in the direction of implementing this strategy. The year 2006 will be here soon. The strategy speaks of this time period. The Social Democratic Party would also expect the implementation strategy to be illustrated in the budget documents for 2002, 2003 and, of course, in the future. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the draft budget that we have received on the table, which we are also considering in these days. It is true that on the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Affairs, government representatives are explained that it is likely to be in this direction, that is, in this area, which is also addressed by this labour market strategy or in the field of employment, there will be significant changes in the revised budget. However, I would point out that the document we have on the table says this from the draft budget for 2002 and 2003 shows that we are witnessing a real fall in active forms of employment and a real increase in passive forms. This is contrary both to this strategy and to European trends and, of course, to some positive behaviour in this area. In particular, I would like to point out that the strategy follows the concept of increasing resources in particular in the employment of more difficult persons, such as persons with disabilities, older persons, uneducated persons and, of course, the abolition of regional structural unemployment. All these points are clearly exposed and the priority of action in these areas is clearly stated. Unfortunately, implementing documents, such as action programmes and, of course, budgets, which are essentially intended to ensure the implementation of this strategy, do not say so. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we warn and ask the Government to take this strategy seriously, with all our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrich will present the DeSUS position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u36	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, as we believe or believe in the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, this document, which we will decide today and hopefully also decide, is very important. This strategy is on the one hand what all citizens of the youngest to the oldest expect. Why did I mention the oldest? The oldest, even if retired or otherwise, spend their time, depend on what kind of employment, what their sons, daughters, grandchildren, and so on will be like. We therefore particularly welcome the fact that this document is on the agenda today, and we are particularly pleased that the Government has also taken into account the comments of the secretariat on many of the other readings that have been tabled in the form of amendments. We believe that the people's pronunciation is 'a transfer of everything', but we will closely monitor in the National Assembly not only how this strategy is being implemented, but above all what the conditions for its implementation are and if the conditions change, certain measures must also be changed. In particular, we consider this strategy to be the basis of the Employment and Insurance Act for the case of the unemployed. New technologies narrow down the labour market, this is said to be a lower demand for certain categories of labour. On the other hand, we welcome the special emphasis placed on raising the level of education in this strategy, which will provide more employment opportunities for modern technologies that require a higher level of expertise. On the one hand, economic growth is premature and on the other hand there is a reduction in the number of unemployed. This is the reason I have just worked on, more modern technology and too slow education for certain structures. If we look at the unemployment structure, we see that the most unemployed are in the categories of lower education. We are therefore saying that it is right that the strategy has clarified its proposal when it has developed certain areas. We believe that it is essential that we follow the results of these strategic orientations so that we can find out with satisfaction that the government will inform us in the opposite direction of the implementation of this strategy and in particular of its results. The strategy defines specific tasks, but I will not go into this because we have them in front of us. I conclude that our Group of Members will support the draft strategy tabled in this third reading in a vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Petty Officer has the floor on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u38	Hello again, everyone. I especially welcome representatives of the government. Partnership for accession or with this accession partnership, we have somehow committed ourselves to preparing a joint policy review in Slovenia and also to do something about policy coherence. In fact, we have succeeded in this document, and it is quite simple to say that we have followed very closely the European Union document, the Amsterdam Treaty, which was then somewhat corrected. The original European Union document therefore contains four pillars with 21 guidelines. Our document wasn't so binding, it wasn't so precise, and I don't think it's anything wrong. However, it may be wrong when it becomes more difficult to identify the implementation of this strategy. The document is well prepared, but it will certainly play a kind of conscience or mirror for any government that will be involved in the drafting of laws. At the same time, of course, there will also be some kind of mirror for all of us. If we support this strategy today, then it also means commitment to implementation, to adopting all those instruments that make this strategy real. This is already seen in the proposed legislation to move away. Some of my colleagues have already pointed to the budget. To touch just two, maybe three points, to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial thinking, what we're going to do here, what we're going to do about the anti-biocratic programme. I fear that the anti-biocratic programme will bring only new administrative jobs, perhaps another new law, and the caravan will go on joyfully. Someone was joking, I don't know exactly, saying that the best anti-biocratic program would be such or its implementation to simply delete some stupid laws, or maybe to abolish some state offices that actually just contributed to administrative complications in solving people's specific issues. If we're talking about entrepreneurship, then what's impossible is it's convincing because it's preventing people from seriously addressing economic issues. Equalisation of options, i.e. the fourth pillar and the last set of guidelines, which are somehow in this European document, also suggest that in Slovenia some more water will have to flow, that the government will draw up some appropriate instruments. The trend is quite the opposite if we look at items, definitions, or what is written in the fourth pillar, or now I do not know exactly which chapter, because I do not know exactly what chapter. We support and hope that the document will serve as a good guide for economic success in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič will speak on behalf of the SLS+SKD. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, once again, Mr Vice President. In our Group of Members, we would like to say the following on our journey to this document. The document is modified by a revised title, which is the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, namely, a national programme. That's good. He's a well-prepared, well-designed and accomplished act. However, this document can only be a good wish and intention if this document is not in the right sense a government document. It would be a mistake to address the implementation of this document excessively, only financial support within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, both in terms of active and passive policies and so on, to promote employment. This is a document which must, in particular, be feasible in the first paragraph of Chapter V, in which each department must be found with its own measures, for which it is not necessary, in particular or solely, to take financial measures. The whole range of possible solutions is just to mention the environment, in the area of spatial planning or the preparation of implementing acts that have a strong positive impact on the climate of employment and job creation. Our credibility in the implementation of this document will also be seen in the way we, as a country joining the European Union, take on the normative framework of all the four freedoms we receive as an equal partner of the European Union. If this normative framework deviates in particular from the framework already in force by the members of the European Union, then this document has a poor journey. If we do not proceed from this title to the decisions or proposals made by the Labour Act, as would follow from this document, this document is also proportionate to a poor traveller on the ground. I therefore stress that the national labour and employment market programme is an interdisciplinary project that will only be successful if this government project is in the right sense. The project of each source, which is coordinated as we would like with the first paragraph of Chapter V. Of course, we fully support this act and consider it a good document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Danica Simšičeva, on behalf of the united list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The United Nations Group of Social Democrats also supports the strategy or national programme for the development of the labour market and employment by 2006. She supported it at first and second readings, and she will do so at third reading. As this is a document defining the situation and trying to regulate them by 2006, we also expect the Group to meet its obligations, which has also been particularly exposed, to be thorough in the preparation of the Action Annual Plan and, of course, the annual review of developments in the labour market. It is important whether these measures, which we believe are well-written, can then be well achieved in life. This does not only require sufficient resources, but also requires adequate mechanisms to achieve these resources. In view of the fact that we join in assessing that the document is developmental and European-oriented, however, in this context, we would also like to draw attention to the desire or initiative, to the proposal, whatever you want, in this kind of Europeanism, to be for the labour market, to tackle unemployment issues and to active employment policies in our country in comparison with many other countries of the European Community. In our debates so far, we have also pointed out that passive forms of unemployment aid cannot, of course, ever dry up, as some groups of people will remain permanently unemployed. At the same time, we have pointed out that there is still a need to devote significantly more resources to active employment policies. Therefore, we are pleased that our warning and our concern, especially for those who are a little older, such as women over 50 and men over 55 years of age, but I think that many people know the data, but many do not know that the number of these people has doubled in the last few years, that today there are almost 30,000 of them, and that, as a percentage of the employment of thousands, women over 50 and men over 55, represent only two percent of the new jobs. Therefore, we are happy as active employment policy mechanisms of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs' plan to prepare a new programme for this type of employment, which will stimulate employers to employ these people and thus enable the share of passive forms to become active forms of employment. The other points are, in fact, difficult to point out, given that there have been a lot of views in previous discussions that we agree with in our Group of Members. In the end, I would say only that we support and once again stress that we are expecting a more detailed action plan and, above all, an annual review of the developments in the labour market itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. There are no written applications, so I limit all further discussions to five minutes. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. The draft strategy shall be accompanied by two amendments to the parent working body included in the report of the Committee. Please, if you can find this in the file. This is on page two of this report. We have two amendments, the first amendment to Chapter 2.4.2.1 and the second amendment to the title of the act. First, we will open the debate to Chapter 2.4.2.1. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate on the amendment and moving on to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 51 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment to Chapter 2.4.2.1 is adopted. The second amendment concerns the title of the proposed act, strategies. Who wants to talk about it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 54 members and Members voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted as well. We are now voting on the proposal for a strategy as a whole. I did not specifically ask earlier whether compliance under Article 198 was ensured. [[Yes, it ……]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full vote on the proposal for a strategy. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 55 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the strategy is fully adopted. And here we have another additional conclusion. This is the decision of the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. We have a decision in writing, including a correction of the conclusion. I ask if anyone wants to discuss this additional decision. [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on an additional decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 52 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the additional decision has been adopted and I conclude the 16th item of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's a third defensively proposed law on classified information. I welcome the Secretary of State, Mr Molan, and my colleagues. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. There are no written reports. Therefore, I will limit further discussion to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? This is now the case for Members and Members of Parliament. [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a discussion, a debate and, of course, a conclusion on the amendments. Here we will use the material, review the amendments to the draft law on classified data, third reading, of 24 October 2001. It's three articles. If you are so attentive, please see paragraphs 22, 25 and 43. So we'll start with Article 22. There's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and the article and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 22. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We have an amendment under Article 25. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to paragraph 43. We have two amendments here. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment to Article 43. Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 43. Let's vote please! Of the 47 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded this decision on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat about coordination. Is coordination ensured? Good. We now have a full vote on the proposal. We are voting on the proposal as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 45 members and Members voted in favour. Two of them were against it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We're at 18. Agenda items - First draft of the law on the registration of rights. I thank the representative of the government. We're on the motion for a law on registering electoral law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative of the government. I'm asking, does he want a word? Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The purpose of the law before you is double, namely to comply with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court and to comply with the legal order of the European Union. In order to comply with the legal order of the European Union, it is a matter of ensuring that electoral rights are recorded for non-nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, for persons who are foreigners from the perspective of the Republic of Slovenia, but citizens of the European Union and who, of course, will have, in accordance with European Union law, the right to vote in local elections after Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union, if they have permanent residence in Slovenia, and to exercise the right to vote in the European Parliament's elections in Slovenia. Consistency with the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerns the recording of the electoral rights of our citizens with permanent residence abroad, which I will be short-listed as expatriates. I would start at this point, which is the question of the exercise of the electoral rights of emigrants. The intention of the law is to establish a permanent register of electoral rights for emigrants, which has not yet existed, thus facilitating the recording of electoral rights and, consequently, the exercise of electoral rights. The purpose of the permanent register of electoral rights is, on the one hand, that our electoral authorities may, at the invitation of each election, inform about the call for elections and the possibilities for voting methods; and on the other hand, that a permanent register of electoral rights may be used to produce electoral directories on the basis of which electoral rights can be exercised at the diplomatic and consular offices of Slovenia abroad, of course. The exercise of electoral rights for our emigrants is regulated in electoral legislation - this is in the electoral law for the National Assembly. There are three options: the exercise of electoral rights at diplomatic and consular missions abroad, the exercise of electoral rights in voters in Slovenia and the exercise of electoral rights by post. The registration of electoral rights is regulated by allowing a citizen, that is, our emigrant, who wishes to exercise electoral rights either in the DKP or in Slovenia, even on the day of the vote, to register and vote with confirmation. I could thus say that the exercise of electoral rights in this segment is facilitated as much as possible. There are still certain obstacles to voting by post, but these obstacles are not in the electoral law, but they are obstacles that could be overcome by the amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly. What exactly am I thinking about? I am thinking of the issue of relatively short deadlines, of the issue of the need for that emigrant who wants to exercise electoral rights by post to send electoral material. The electoral material also includes a voicemail. However, it is only possible to send the ballots when the nominations are confirmed - which is no later than 15 days before the day of the vote. This short period of time can, of course, then, sometimes, especially in overseas countries, lead to the fact that emigrants do not get electoral material in time. Once again, however, these are obstacles that can be overcome by the amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly, by the introduction of the so-called "blank ballot" or empty ballots and, of course, by facilitating the way the electoral cards are confirmed, which is now linked to our diplomatic-consular representations or to notaries abroad. This could be facilitated. In practice, on the basis of the instructions of the Republican Electoral Commission, past elections have also facilitated the establishment by diplomatic and consular representatives of so-called trustees, who subsequently confirmed the electoral cards on behalf of the DKP. So, if I recap. The electoral law aims to facilitate, as far as possible, the recording of electoral rights for our emigrants and thus the exercise of electoral rights, since, of course, the proposer realizes that, for these persons, for our citizens around the world, the exercise of electoral rights is of great importance. From the point of view of elections as a whole and of electoral outcome, these votes may not mean much, but for each individual Slovenian citizen living abroad, of course, the exercise of electoral rights means an important connection with the motherland, that is to say with the country. With regard to registering electoral rights for EU citizens, just for a short time. Two permanent records shall be established. One is the permanent record of EU citizens who have permanent residence in Slovenia and "ipso facto", i.e. with the very fact that permanent residents have the right to vote in local elections, that they have permanent residence in Slovenia. The second is the register of electoral rights for elections to the European Parliament, where logic is slightly different. Here, however, an EU citizen has the right to exercise this electoral right in a country where he has permanent residence. Of course, the law on registering electoral rights makes it possible. Finally, all I would say is that the law on registering electoral law is in this segment, as far as elections to the European Parliament are concerned, an implementing law. In order to ensure this right, as well as the rights of EU citizens to vote in local elections, it is necessary to amend the system laws, i.e. the law on local elections or the adoption of the electoral law to the European Parliament, but we have drawn up this law so that it is technically compatible with any solution concerning the electoral system to the European Parliament. Thus, there is no problem that the implementing law here is somewhat premature. It is, in particular, premature because it has to be aligned with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and also because it is included in the national programme for the adaptation of Slovenian European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because the proposaler has practically drawn attention to all the dilemmas that have also occurred at the Committee's meeting. I would just like to say that the meeting of the committee was attended by representatives of the Republic Election Commission, representatives of the Slovenian Office in place of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a representative of the Commission for Relations with the Slovenians in exchange, who participated in the discussion on this law as an interested working body. It should be said that the members of the committee have found that the law must be adopted as soon as possible, on the one hand, in order to comply with the Constitutional Court decision, as well as for the reasons stated here by the representative of the applicant, Dr Virant. This is an election to the European Parliament and, at the same time, a solution to the issue of elections for emigrants. It should also be said that several times in the discussion it has been pointed out that the issue of deadlines, which is one of the key problems in such tasks, is that the issue of deadlines is linked mainly to the deadlines set out in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Therefore, it will, of course, be necessary to consider these necessary changes. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision, as reflected in the report. It notes that the law is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for second reading and proposes further views, that is to say the comments of the secretariat should be taken into account. There are also discussions or comments on deadlines. Let it examine and take due account of the opinion of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians around the world and use the dual form in the preparation of the second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. Representatives of the parliamentary groups are next. I only have one application here so far. Mr. Bernik on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Government representatives! Colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we welcome the proposal for a law on registering electoral law. I will talk in particular about a matter that is critical to Slovenian citizens around the world. This law, or this bill, came with a great deal of delay, twice. Firstly, from the beginning, the law on electoral rights of emigrants was unfair to Slovenian citizens abroad. This became increasingly clear with every election. Unfortunately, this delay or inequality between Slovenian citizens at home and abroad had to be determined only by a constitutional court, not, for example, an electoral commission or a policy. As with some other constitutional court orders requiring the law to be brought into line with the Constitution, there has also been a considerable delay here. What is the point of this proposal? After the current law, Slovenian citizens without permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia had to register in a special electoral directory before each election. This provision, according to the Constitutional Court, has placed Slovenian citizens abroad in an unequal position vis-à-vis citizens who have a permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal also begins to regulate the maintenance of the register of electoral rights of members of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia. This violation of our Constitution also had to be determined only by the Constitutional Court. It is hoped that, at least in this electoral area, we will theoretically approach the situation when some Slovenian citizens are not more equal than others. In the long run, we hope that this law will to some extent eliminate the existing inequality of citizens. But this will only happen in time. Slovenian citizens around the world will have to register once again under this law in the electoral directory, but this time at the competent diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia. The initial register of electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia shall be established on the basis of a directory prepared for the election of the President of the Republic in 1997 and the election of the National Assembly in 2000. This provision, of course, makes sense, but does not take into account the fact that many Slovenian citizens abroad for various reasons, for example, due to short periods of time, because of inequality or because of alleged and sometimes consistent speculation in the exercise of their constitutional electoral rights. Let me also mention that this law does not solve the problem of the deadlines now in force of the electoral law for the President of the State and for the National Assembly. They are totally inadequate for citizens around the world, or at least for the vast majority of them. In New Slovenia, we hope that the competent authorities will have sufficient political will to propose the necessary changes to the current electoral law. The technical obstacles to the current deadlines, if not amended, will, to an extent, eliminate the substantive improvements in this new law. Let me mention that, in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we have given the initiative to the President of the Election Commission and to the Secretary of State, Dr Virant, to prepare a table of deadlines for all of us. This will enable us to see problems with hands from the perspective of our citizens around the world. I hope that we can get this material in a short time so that we can prepare suitable amendments. Let me briefly draw attention to some other problems that the current proposal does not solve. One is the question of adequate information for Slovenian citizens around the world. These citizens are scattered across all continents; many live in countries where there is no Slovenian consular and diplomatic representation or are far from that. To date, a comprehensive list of Slovenian citizens living outside Slovenia and those Slovenians and Slovenes without Slovenian citizenship has not been completed. When we're talking about 500,000 Slovenes and Slovenians around the world, we're actually talking about. The Slovenian Consular Diplomatic Representations have only limited opportunities to prepare such records. As I have already mentioned, the initial registration will begin with the electoral directory for the 1997 and 2000 elections. We will also need to find a way to inform all previously undetected Slovenians and Slovenians around the world who have Slovenian citizenship. It will also be necessary to consider the place of voters. As I have already said, many of our citizens live far from the diplomatic representations of our country. Therefore, it would be useful to consider, by example, other typical immigration countries, how it would be appropriate to arrange the electorate also at the seat of Slovenian societies and religious communities. Although in the introduction to this bill, the government has not mentioned some typical immigration countries and their practice to its citizens around the world, such as Italy, Greece, Ireland, Poland, which would be much more suitable for comparison, I think this proposal is a good basis for second reading. Here, too, let me mention that in preparing for the second reading, it will also be necessary to consider the very important comments made by the secretariat for legislation. For the text of this proposal shows that the law in some matters was not well thought out. We will prepare some amendments in New Slovenia to correct some of these shortcomings to some extent. I therefore recommend that you vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to present its position? Yeah. On behalf of DeSUS, Mr. Kebrich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues. I will not particularly discuss individualities, because this is the first debate, but I allow myself, on behalf of the Group of Members, to ask the basic question. In the transitional provisions, it is well arranged for elections to the European Parliament when the Member State of Slovenia is a member of the European Union. In the other articles, it is not or is already a right if citizens of other Member States of the European Union have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, they can vote in municipal elections and for the President of the country with us. We believe that this is not clear, because if our citizens are resident in any European Union country, they will not have these rights there until Slovenia is a member of the European Union. I therefore believe that there is a lack of transitional provisions and I ask that we take the position that the Government should re-examine this and prepare for the second reading such appropriateness in the transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Because I do not see any other parliamentary groups wishing to present their views. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Pukšič has entered the floor in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The commission for Slovenians in place and around the world has also considered this proposal for a law on registering electoral rights as an interested working body. Even more so, as of 22 June 2001, we have informed the President of the National Assembly that the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court for the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution has expired. That was on July 14, 2001. Now this bill on registering electoral rights is before us. The Commission of the Slovenian National Assembly, both in place and around the world, has done so, which I think is particularly important to stress very broadly by involving civil society in this debate. We have therefore invited representatives of the World Slovenian Congress, representatives of the Slovenian Emigrant Mother, representatives of the society of Slovenia in the world and representative of Rafael's society, from civil society and from ministries all who are responsible for this. It seems a little strange to me that there is only a report of the Committee on Internal Policy at the point of the National Assembly, which is this 18th point. I am surprised, in fact, that it is not included in the report which our commission has submitted to the proposal for a law. It would be useful, although I would also like to thank the Internal Policy Committee, which has taken all our views and has written down in its report that the proposaler should examine and take due account of the opinion of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and in the world, it would be right if this opinion were also in this paper, because respected colleagues and fellow Members would also have read and read these views and opinions on the draft law before them. It is from this title that I would like to stress the importance of some of the opinions that we have drawn up after the debate. The discussion drew attention to the following facts: First time. The fact that the elections at the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad always require the consent of the host country should be taken into account. Another time. It is necessary to examine the reality of certain deadlines already pointed out by the secretariat for legislation. Specifically, Article 30 states: "The competent authorities shall carry out electoral directories no later than 20 days after the call for elections." The following conclusion was that an application for registration in the electoral register was still needed. It is necessary to ensure adequate information among Slovenian citizens with permanent residence abroad and to explore the possibility of including Slovenian societies and Catholic missions in addition to diplomatic and consular offices. This finding is related to article 31 of the bill, which states: "When the electoral registers of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia" or paragraph 2 reads: "The Ministry responsible for foreign affairs shall transmit the electoral directory to all diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia abroad in which the vote will take place." In the debate, it was clear from the very specific problems that it was simply impossible to participate in elections only at diplomatic and consular missions, but this would also be necessary to ensure the presence of Slovenian societies or Catholic missions, since, last but not least, these diplomatic and consular offices could be separated by thousands or even a few thousand kilometres. This is simply not possible, so this is one of the key and important views that the drafter should take into account when preparing the law for the second reading. And the last position we have drawn up was that it would be necessary to amend the electoral law as soon as possible into the National Assembly and the election of the President of the Republic in particular as regards deadlines and electoral cards. The debate has shown that the government as a candidate would do best to prepare this as a legislative package on amendments to the electoral record law, elections to the National Assembly and the election of the President of the State. Above all, it is imperative to hurry with these two, at least one law, because the second year is the presidential election. Today in this place we warn if we have serious and fair purposes for Slovenians around the world so that they can really use positive legislation to do so. Finally, I would like to say that the Commission has adopted a decision where the Home Working Body is invited by the Internal Policy Committee to support the draft law as a suitable basis for further consideration, which has also happened. However, I would certainly like to take into account the findings of the second reading, because, as I have already said, after quite a broad discussion, the ministries that participated in this debate, from the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Home Affairs and so on and, of course, also from the representatives of civil society after the debate. Finally, it seems important to me to emphasise that all the views and conclusions adopted by the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world were unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I limit the debate between Members and Members, who will report to the debate from now on to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the government representative in this general discussion two questions about these solutions that are before us. The fourth paragraph of Article 10 is replaced by the following: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u55	Excuse me. Dr. Virant, there are two specific questions now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u56	And perhaps Mr Kebrich has a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u57	Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u58	If I say it again for a second. I would like to ask two specific questions in the context of this general discussion. The fourth paragraph of Article 10 lists the documents to be attached by the applicant for registration in the register of voting rights when he submits the application. I don't understand whether he has to attach all these documents or just one of these documents. It would be logical that only one of these documents, not all those listed here, is listed here by the law. I want an answer here. If only one, then I am sure that this paragraph needs to be properly corrected so that it is not doubtful. Next question: in article 45, which speaks of the issue of an electoral card for those who wish to vote by post, there are no deadlines written here for the applicant to receive this electoral card in fact so that it does not happen in order to receive it only after the elections. So these are two questions. But I do have another initiative, or you'll probably answer my third question. We are saying that Slovenia should become an information society. I wonder whether it is not possible for such an important law as the law on keeping the register of electoral rights to include these principles of the information society and for matters such as post voting, to use these solutions and acquisitions of modern technology - perhaps you can tell me how they are resolved in other countries - and give our citizens the opportunity to vote through these internet solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Any other questions or discussions by Members and Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask the Secretary of State for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. There were quite a few specific questions, so I would also like to try to give a concrete answer. Dr Bernik pointed out an agreement to draw up a scheme that will clearly show the progress of the deadlines under the law on the registration of electoral law and the law on elections to the National Assembly. Of course, we committed ourselves to it, or we promised it. This scheme is already being developed in cooperation with the Republic Election Commission. When the law is submitted for second reading, of course we will also attach this scheme. If we're gonna make it sooner, we're gonna have to make it sooner. Alerted on the need for information. We are, of course, deeply in agreement with that. The law only provides a framework that facilitates the entry into the register of electoral rights makes it easier for our emigrant to require only one-time active conduct. Only once it has written down, requires entry, is entered in the record and from here on out nothing has to be done, unless its information changes. For example, a change of residence. More than that, of course, can't be done. Why this entry is needed at all, why it cannot be derived from the nationality record. Because data on the country of residence and residence are needed if we want this record to have this purpose, which I have previously explained, so that the directory is established on its basis and citizens are informed of the call for elections. The opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters will, of course, be examined and I can say now that it is actually a matter of minor technical comments and that all of them are worthy of consideration, as well as the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, on the transitional provision. In fact, there is a lack of transitional provisions and we will also take this into account. The question of the deadlines, which has been opened here several times, is, in my opinion, more relevant to the law on elections to the National Assembly than to this law. This is only about the hands when it is necessary to produce, send and open electoral directories. As far as these deadlines are concerned, there can be no dilemma at all whether or not they are taken into account by the State authorities. They're gonna have to pay attention, that's not the question at all. The deadlines are more important in the law on elections to the National Assembly. The consent of the Host State. This is, of course, an international legal practice that cannot be followed. But I can say that in practice there is never any problem. Always a country that organises voting abroad at its diplomatic and consular offices, under international law, asks the host country whether it has any reservations, any obstacles. In all cases, consensus has been easily obtained so far. The question of Article 10, paragraph 4, was, of course, clearly meant that any of these documents was of nationality. But more than that! Before the second reading, the proposer will consider deleting Article 10, paragraph 4, fully within the framework of a project relating to the acquisition of data from official records. In fact, we want to lay down the principle that citizens should not be required to attach to any administrative authority any evidence of data available from official records. This project, if I may say so, we're just splitting it up. And of course, how are the authorities going to get this data? Until the technical options are exposed, they will be obtained "walking", if you want, by mail or e-mail. However, when appropriate software and hardware solutions are established, of course by direct entry, if I may say so, into the second register Let's say, in the area of the central register of the population, at least for some of the most frequent users, this will be done by the end of March next year. So, the records, the certificates, and so on, are numbered days, and they're going to go to the history dump. From this point of view, of course, this Article 10(4) is also, in fact, questionable or unnecessary. Then it's a question of the election card and the deadlines. This deadline was laid down by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. At the latest 30 days before the day of the vote, the emigrant must also apply to the locals, i.e. those who are permanently registered in Slovenia, and on the day of the vote abroad, declare their wish, their request to vote by post. Even if this requirement comes later, it is taken into account in practice in a timely manner. However, the material can only go from Slovenia after the current arrangements when the nominations are confirmed. That's not until 15 days before the day of the vote. And this is where this problem arises when, of course, the Republic Election Commission or administrative units send this material, and then there is no way that we can affect the functioning of mail abroad. Here comes this problem, which, as I said earlier, can be improved by these technical improvements. So, for the first time - with the introduction of "blank ballot", empty ballots to send the material before the nominations are finally confirmed. And secondly, of course, even with consideration of the deadlines; the deadlines in the law on elections to the National Assembly. If we extend these hands a little bit, the applications could also be confirmed a lot earlier, so at least a few days earlier or a week earlier, and we could send this material first. But in elections it is always necessary to weigh on the one hand the need to ensure that this entire election operation is completed and completed within a reasonable time, and on the other hand the problems that arise primarily for our citizens around the world with these close hands. The principles of the information society are taken into account in this law - that is, not directly in this law, but they are taken into account, if you wish, in relation to other legislation, which means that an application for a permanent register of electoral rights can be sent electronically, provided that it is signed by electronic signature, certified by a qualified certificate. One day it will also be one of those so-called online applications that will slowly fill the home page of the e-government, which in particular means that a citizen will be able to enter the e-government portal, choose this service, fill out the form on the internet and send it directly from there. So I could say that two steps are: we already have the first step today, we can already communicate with the state authorities by email today, and the second step by the time the online role is available. But if you're talking about electronic elections, but this is a question that needs to be considered a little bit more, I'd say in the medium term. It is certainly one of the objectives of e-government, certainly one of the objectives, but not within the framework of short-term priorities. However, it is known that they have already done this in some parts of the world; Italy recently carried out a referendum in some electoral units by electronic means. I hope I answered all the questions. It will not be difficult for the proposer to prepare a law for second reading, because all comments, as assessed by the proposer, are, of course, reasonable, are mainly minor, technical comments and will also facilitate the drafting of a law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. Procedurally, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry we haven't prepared this position before, but it's being written and reproduced. Therefore, I propose that we end this point and this afternoon, when we have this position all Members and Members of Parliament on the table, let us conclude this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u63	I must once again reject this proposal because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, I have already said this once today - once yesterday, today another time - that such proposals can be put forward and so forward in time to the conclusion of the general debate. I have concluded the general debate, we have moved to a vote, we are in the voting phase and there is nothing more to be done. So we're moving on to a debate and a later vote that there will be no misunderstanding [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u64	I'm the one who predicted the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u65	But we haven't started this yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u66	And I've read it. But here you have the letter, you can read it, and we can vote on it either "yes" or "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u67	Is that split? Looks like we have different perspectives on time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u68	[[...]] [[It's not understandable. It's not included.]] You can read it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u69	So we are moving on to the debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The bill on registering electoral rights, first reading, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law." Who wants a word on the proposed decision? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote on the decision I just read. Let's vote, please. I note that there are 45 Members and Members present in the Chamber. We're re-voting. Second time, please. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. If no one objects, we will also include this proposal for an additional position announced by Mr Kebric in this debate. So, first of all, we are discussing the positions that have been drawn up by the mother's working body. Who wants a word? Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u70	Yes, this will not be an argument to reject the position, but perhaps a more linguistic comment to move forward. Little for a joke - the proposer will have a lot of problems with how to use both sexual forms, because there are no double-sex forms in the Slovenian language, are mostly singles in women and men's sex, there is no double-sex form.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Simsichova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. However, I would like to respond to that opinion, position, reaction, or comment that has just been given. However, I am not professionally highly qualified and qualified in the language field, but the proposal came from those who have master's degrees and also higher academic titles in this area, and it is used both sexually and professionally, individual expressions in both female and male sexual form. It is a completely adjusted professional term, as explained to me. Not single-sex, as some people misapply, double-sex is completely professionally correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I do not think that the problems in drafting the law in this sense, as it is designed and as it stands in the future rules of procedure, will not be the subject of a single amendment. This is only the use of one term: citizen and citizen. There are no other terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Well, then, given that we have a different opinion on timeliness, I would ask whether you are here to ask whether - or who objects to the proposal for an additional position on the bill on the register of electoral rights prepared by Mr Kebric on behalf of DeSUS - I will read it. It's about attitude. You didn't get it in writing. Does anyone object? [[Nobody.]] Then I'll read it. Exceptionally, I'll say it now. "The proposaler should complete paragraph 46 of the draft law on the register of voting rights by supplementing that provision also applies to provisions governing the rights of EU citizens with regard to participation in local elections. [[Article 26 provision.]] Explanation. Article 26 of the bill on registering electoral rights provides that the provisions of Chapter I [[General electoral directories]] are also applicable to EU citizens for local elections. With our additional position, we want to amend that provision in this direction so that that right or provision applies only when Slovenia is accepted as a full member of the EU." This is the text that Mr Kebric has announced and I have here. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] He's a representative of the government. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then would that be a debate, sir? [[...]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Given what you've read, Mr. Vice President, I think it's a very complicated matter and I'd like to have this paper on the table to study it. I can't decide what I just heard because I don't have a document on the table. Because it's more complicated than we thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u77	Yes, given that I asked you earlier, who opposes this and of course, because you did not know what and how before, I believe that after reading the matter, that for most Members, Members of Parliament, it can be disputed and, of course, I cannot put it into the position, because the timely material has not been transmitted. Until the conclusion of the general debate, it must be on the table, not at the time of the vote. This is a rule that must be strictly respected. I have tried, given the simplicity of the provision, from my point of view - I can be wrong - to put this into perspective. Given that one Member opposes and is of a substantive nature, it has the right to do so, the Rules of Procedure states, I will have to do as I have predicted. Mr. Skull, I don't know why you're raising your hand now. So, I've explained things the way I think it's right, and I don't see any reason to go on with this. We vote on the positions [[...]] So, procedurally, Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u78	I am only interested in one thing: on the basis of what you conclude that this is such a difficult additional conclusion that we do not understand it, if even Mr Kelemina said only that he would like to see it, but not that he does not understand it, and for this reason you are withdrawing it from the decision-making process. It is a very simple additional decision, which I believe would certainly be accepted that the government would not object to it, because it only explains that the provisions of this law concerning local elections should enter into force when we are members of the European Union if we are. Besides, I don't object to your procedural decision not to include it, but then you've already eaten the word because you've only listed it ten or five minutes ago. So you have to decide on your own whether you're strict or not, not that we're making fun of ourselves here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thanks for the lesson, Mr. Skull. However, I made it very clear: given the simplicity of the content from my point of view, given that it was announced, but it was not given in time, I allowed myself to move away from the rules of the game because the thing from my point of view is simple. Secondly, I asked if anyone was opposed to it - no one - but I asked before you even knew what it was about. When I read this, one Member insisted on wanting to have this in writing; this, of course, gave way to these procedural reliefs, which I have tried to introduce precisely because the matter is simple. However, that is how I have now decided as President and I have the right to do so. That is why I am now putting these views which the Committee has drawn up to the debate. Anybody else want to talk about positions? [[We already did, he doesn't.]] So, we're going to the vote. We vote on positions. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've adopted our views. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A REAL LEGISLATIVE. I thank the representative of the Government, and I welcome Mr Jenul, Secretary of State. At the same time, I'm asking, does he want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. I would like to make a few more observations on the proposal for a law that is widely explained. The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government and other proponents, adopts a number of laws which everyone, in their field, have the same formality. However, some laws are of particular importance, according to their content, according to the content of the area they regulate. One such area is the area of real estate, where, for example, it is already stipulated in the Constitution that the ownership of the property rights of foreigners is decided by this State Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote. This gives particular importance to the real law proposed for consideration. This is particularly important because it is the first regulation to govern real relations in the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety; secondly, because it is the first regulation to regulate this relationship after 1811 for the whole territory of the country; and thirdly, because it is part of the new civil law code that the Republic of Slovenia will gradually develop. This National Assembly has already adopted a bond code, with the adoption of a real law code, two of the five envisaged parts will be prepared, followed by family laws, a legacy code and a general part of civil law. This proposal, which you have received, is prepared with a great degree of professional coordination. It was done by professors of the real law of both universities, both universities, Supreme Court judges and the entire legal profession. Based on the classical real-law institutions, as we know from Roman law, built on the principles of Austrian ODR and BGV and taking into account modern real-law trends, as expressed by this and explained specifically by the Swiss and Dutch Code. In addition to the classical institutions of civil law, two important things have been added that we have not known so far - this is building rights and land debt. These institutions are significantly expanding the possibilities for regulating the legal relationship, in line with the requirements imposed by the market economy. The rates of the personality of transactions concerning real rights remain as they have been so far, in accordance with the Slovenian legal tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The proposal for a code was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. As can be seen, this is a case of legal supremacy, i.e. a code that is in some ways more a domain of experts, legal experts, not us politicians, and, of course, a committee debate was also appropriate. It should be said that, in addition to the proposed committee, they participated, and our secretariat for legislation, including representatives of the Faculty of Law, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Notary Chamber and the Chamber of Lawyers. Perhaps because, as usual, the secretariat does not mention its comments, it would remind colleagues and colleagues of their three essential principle comments. This is: the first set would be that the Secretariat notes that the proposal for a real law included provisions of real law, which are part of the general civil law, and therefore raises the question of the relationship between the proposed real law and the envisaged imposition of general civil law. Secondly, the secretariat considers that the applicant has substantially extended the provisions of the real law compared to the existing law and that the previous institutions have been modified and some new ones added. In doing so, it notes that it would be good for the applicant to further enrich the explanation, since this would, of course, be a relief to the courts or judges when they apply this law. In addition, I would like to point out that the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Notary Chambers and the Chambers of Lawyers have unitedly praised the qualitatively prepared proposal and have expressed their appreciation to the drafters of the text and, of course, have also been aware that they have already participated in the preliminary hearing. After I had said a brief discussion and after the proposal had clarified some of the questions raised on the Committee, the Committee adopted a decision, a simple conclusion that the Code was the appropriate basis for the drafting of the Code, i.e. the proposal to provide a suitable basis for the preparation of the second reading. It should, however, be prepared by the Government, i.e. with a view to examining and taking into account the comments of the Secretariat as appropriate. And, of course, the second position, which is now quite a form, should follow the principle of the use of double-sex forms. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't have any applications for Mrs. Zupanov, please. [[...]] New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! Members of New Slovenia support the proposed bill and we believe that it is a good basis for further consideration. We are convinced that it is the result of precise work and coordination between different groups, as ownership and other real rights are regulated in a comprehensive and new way, and this is based entirely on the concept of private property. The proposer has substantially extended the provisions of the Real Law compared to the existing Law on Fundamental Property Relations and has added a number of new institutions, the regulation of building rights and property, the area of flag rights, which has now been regulated in three laws. A new institution of land debt has been processed, which in addition to the mortgage represents a new option of the land flag. A real burden and a chapter of neighborly law has been reorganized. We can hope that the material collected is the basis and the assurance that disputes between natural and legal persons will not increase and that, even in certain places, an overly precise provision means a reduced possibility of different interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for presentations on the positions of the groups. That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written submissions to the debate. I will therefore limit the debate of the other Members to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'll try to be as short as I can, of course, because I've only got five minutes. First of all, I am going to say that there has been one embarrassment that on 22.10., a letter came to my address as Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee and the content of the letter is the initiative of the Slovenian paying agency. I'll try to explain briefly what this is all about. The Agency considers that it would be wise to amend Chapter IV, which is a chapter on non-obsessive flag rights on movable property, to give an initiative to establish a register of such rights and, therefore, to this end, to add, as it should be said, one expertise prepared by Dr Miha Juhart, on the possibility of establishing such a register. Of course, this is also related to notariat or corrections, probably, of this law, in short, and they also suggested how things should change. If you allow me, I would take this opportunity in particular to draw attention to this letter and to encourage you to adopt a complementary proposal to the position that the National Assembly is proposing, what you have received on the table, to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to examine the comments of the Slovenian paying agency relating to this and so on, and that these initiatives - here should be, yeah, and at the same time consider the possibility, as it is well written - that these initiatives are taken into account in the preparation of the second reading proposal. That would be for a while. However, if I have some time left to move where this is possible, these are movements that can be identified, such as vessels, outboard engines, cars and so on - what is registered and has an identification number - in order to establish a register as a public book for these moving things, the paying agency should be running. And in this way, of course, it allows those potential buyers, in this case for example - I don't know, I decide to buy a car and I can get information from this public book, whether this car is already a flag or not, and in this way, of course, my greater security is ensured. They also have some of their banks here, which are mostly credit-giving people, and they want to show up somewhere like this. However, the matter is not so simple that it can be debated by politicians in a broad and open manner. Therefore, the proposal for a decision that I have offered you is very kind; therefore, we ask the Government to consider this and, if it is considered necessary, take into account the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Nobody else? Maybe a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I stress that I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the real law, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading code." Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the proposed decision. We're voting, please. 43 Members and Members are present. I ask those of you who are near to join us to try to finish this point before noon break. So, we're voting next time, please. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We now have the Committee's views here, two points of view, and a complementary proposal for a bill of law, which Mr Lavrinc explained a little earlier. [[And you got it on the bench.]] So we have two pieces. The debate is therefore open on three points of view. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on positions. We first vote on the position submitted by Mr Lavrinc in writing. We therefore vote on Mr Lavrinc's complementary proposal. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. Here are the board's views. We can vote on both positions together. Let's vote, please! 45 present. If we could try the whole thing again maybe Mr. Horvat could hurry up a little bit. [[...]] Well, you don't have to run, but it's commendable, please. [[...]] So we repeat the vote - another time. Let's vote! Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 48 Members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it your views have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank Mr Jenul. I'm moving to 20. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government, Mr Končan, the Secretary of State with the co-workers. Do you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u88	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law which, on the one hand, complies with the decision adopted by the National Assembly in spring of this year with regard to the revision of this law, and in particular those provisions setting out the scope of application of the lower tax rate and tax exemptions, while also fulfilling the obligation adopted by the European Slovenia in its negotiations with the European Union with regard to the progressive adaptation of Slovenian tax legislation. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly adopted at its meeting in April this year, the Government has examined the possibilities for applying a lower tax rate and tax exemptions in accordance with the requirements of the European legal acts, for which our country has therefore committed itself to respect them or to gradually adapt to them and harmonise our legal system. The Government has also examined all proposals to amend the scope of application of the lower tax rate or tax exemptions it received this year from interested taxpayers or other interested associations, or either in previous legislative procedures relating to the value added tax law or in the context of the initiatives and proposals of those taxpayers themselves and their interest associations. In line with these starting points, the government has included in the draft law those changes in the scope of application of the lower tax rate and tax exemptions that were able to be taken into account without undermining the basic origins of the value added tax system and the already achieved compliance of our regulation with European value added tax rules. In order to better explain the starting points taken into account by the Government in the determination of the new text of these provisions, we have added to today's material for the meeting of the National Assembly even more extensive information on the possibilities of applying a lower tax rate and applying a tax exemption in the value added tax system, as well as on some of the consequences of such possible use of lower tax rates and exemptions for the operations of the debtors themselves. The second set of amendments proposed to the National Assembly for approval includes those provisions which further align the Slovenian system of value added tax with the provisions of the European Directive. This includes, in particular, provisions amending those taxed use of taxpayer's assets, provisions on the tax base, provisions on the enforcement of the deduction of entry tax and provisions on the calculation of value added tax under specific schemes, for example for tourist agencies, the resale of used goods, art and so on. The third set of proposed amendments consists of those changes that are necessary in order to remove in practice some of the dilemmas that arise in the conduct of the debtors and reflect some of the shortcomings of the original text. These include in particular amendments to the provisions on the definition of taxable persons, the right of taxable persons to return value added tax in Slovenia and similar provisions. The Government is proposing to the National Assembly to confirm the proposed law as a suitable basis for drafting the text of the draft law for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues and representatives of the government! The mother’s working body was addressed by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The broad debate focused on the following opinions or questions that I will try to give briefly. Firstly, the issue of the envisaged amendments introduced by the legal proposal for the transport of used goods, with particular emphasis on cars. Secondly, the preceding paragraph 32, point 2, as explained by the applicant, which was raised by Luka Koper. Third, reduced or zero rate for children's footwear, food and clothing. Fourthly, Article 9 of the legislative proposal, on the basis of which all business entities are liable for value added tax when treated equally, as there would be unfair competition in the reverse case. 5. Article 12, paragraph 12, states that, in addition to the estimated reduced tax burden on the supply of drinking water, there is no reference to clean-up, waste disposal or landfill maintenance services. 6. Consideration of the possibility of reducing that rate to sports, cultural, humanitarian and other organisations which are mainly financed by sponsorship. Seven. Voluntary collection of funds, given that the normal rate of taxation is burdened in subsequent procedures or investment applications. 8. A more detailed explanation of Article 26 paragraph 12 of the legislative proposal are services directly related to sport. 9. The envisaged solution in previous procedures when considering amendments to the value added tax law and several open questions regarding the introduction of lower taxation of basic assets and firefighting equipment of voluntary firefighters. Ten. The lower tax rate for bathing cards and the sense of this decision, in other cases where reductions cannot be introduced, especially since some discussers believe that this is not a sport facility but a municipal one. And 11 accompanying financial analyses on the basis of which individual conclusions could be drawn with regard to the expected financial effects, in particular from the point of view of the introduced reduced tax rates in the proposed amendment. Following a detailed explanation of the confusion or the replies given by the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance, the Committee adopted the following decision. In order to propose to the National Assembly that the first consideration is a suitable basis for drafting a second reading bill with two views: firstly, to take due account of the comments made by the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs. Secondly, it should examine the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the comments made at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Mag. A viscous, please. SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague. With the value added tax and the novelties to this law, we are now meeting many times this year, and it is the same. However, it is also right to clear up, explain to the end, and not to drag some things forward, I also see this consideration and this novel. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we believe that most of the provisions of the novelty are actually aimed at adapting the system to directives and guidelines of the European Union and, of course, there is also some kind of revision of the implementation of the existing system of value added tax. At the same time, we believe that this amendment is rather vague and leaves a number of questions in some of the provisions, and some of them have also been pointed out by the Committee on Finance in its report, and certainly in the Social Democratic Party we believe that there is a need for a clear answer to these questions until the second hearing. I also welcome the initiative and the annex to this paper by the Ministry of Finance, which discusses the different possibilities for introducing reduced tax rates and so on. At the same time, however, I miss the answers to the very clear questions raised from past examinations and analysis, as we all expected from this proposal, an analysis of all proposals to introduce both a reduced tax rate and a zero tax rate. This is not in the material, and I would therefore call on the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to do so until the second reading, to analyse all the initiatives that have come after the introduction of the reduced and zero tax rates; also to analyse all the initiatives that have been put forward in the past in the National Assembly and, of course, to answer clearly which of these initiatives are and which are not acceptable, both from the point of view of the 6th Directive and from the point of view of the system and the system of value added tax as introduced by us. We don't have those answers. We have only some suggestions that everyone can understand from the material, and this is very limited. This would leave the Social Democratic Party with a comment and an initiative and proposals on tax rates to the second reading, and for the time being they would merely attach to the objective and principle of amending this law that it is, I say, in these two directions, such as adaptation to European Community legislation and the revision of the implementation so far. However, concrete proposals are expected on the basis of material for second reading on the exemption and reduction of tax rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaca will speak on behalf of the SMS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law that we have before us today brings in particular the solutions contained in the 6th Council of Europe Directive, which need to be adopted before 31 December 2002. In addition to other amendments, the law will also add categories that are entitled to a lower VAT rate. The Republic of Slovenia, in its original negotiating points on accession to the EU, requested that the Republic of Slovenia be allowed a lower VAT rate for the preparation of food, wine, construction and maintenance of all housing facilities and special facilities for the living and life of persons with disabilities, as well as holders of words, images and sounds. The EU has accepted only a lower tax rate for the preparation of food and has rejected the others.In the subsequent additional negotiating points, Slovenia withdrew the requirements for a reduced rate, which were rejected, proposed a transitional period until 31.12.2009 for the construction, renovation and maintenance of housing facilities, as the current stage of the national housing programme is expected to be completed by that date. Of course, I agree that a lower VAT rate should be maintained for the construction and renovation of dwellings, but at the same time I would like to stress that a lower VAT rate should also be introduced for certain products, such as children's food, clothing and footwear, which now fall below 19% of the value added tax. In Annex H to the 6th Directive, which lists products and services for which a Member State may introduce lower VAT rates, it is excluded, meaning that a Member State does not have the possibility to impose other lower rates. However, children's clothing and footwear could be taxed at a lower rate at least until Slovenia's full membership in the EU, as in the case of recorded carriers with text, visual and audio recordings. These institutions must be taxed under the 6th Council of Europe Directive at the general level of VAT, but Slovenia will maintain a lower VAT rate for all carriers, i.e. those who should be taxed at a higher rate, at least until Slovenia's full membership in the EU. Following this principle, Slovenia could add to products that are taxed at a lower rate, including children's clothing and footwear, at least until Slovenia is included in the EU. Natality in Slovenia falls. Different cultural and social factors certainly contribute to this, and the poor social status of young families also contributes greatly. Families with a small child or even more, it is difficult to provide their children with everything they need and want. The cost is increased when children start attending kindergarten or school. The country should strive to keep the costs of clothing and footwear that the child urgently needs as low as possible, especially since children are growing rapidly and are changing it quickly. Many parents are now forced to buy clothes and shoes for their children abroad, including in the EU and other associated members, say Hungary, because it is much cheaper there. For this reason, I think that Slovenia should do so as a matter of urgency from the point of view of the national economy itself. However, I would like to draw attention to the third paragraph of the introduction that Mr State Secretary has already discussed before, namely the possibility of applying a lower tax rate and the imposition of a tax exemption in the value added tax system. In this third paragraph, the basis for this reduced tax rate for the matters I have referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. It's 1 p.m., so the morning part of the session is now closed. At 2.30 p.m. we continue with this agenda item and the first will have the word Mr Battelli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u96	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 9th session, on 25.10.2001: Feri Hrvat from 16.00 p.m. onwards, Anton Partljič for the whole day, Franc Onion for the whole day, Bojan Kontic for the start of the afternoon session and Anton Delak for the afternoon part of the session. We're picking up the presence, so please press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. 34 Members and Members are present. Presence will be determined the second time in accordance with the rules of procedure. We're detecting a presence. There are 37 of us present. The National Assembly is not concluded and cannot decide. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I interrupt the meeting for 15 minutes. We'll continue at 2.53 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u97	I would like to ask colleagues and colleagues who are in the National Assembly building, where we will be able to determine for the third time in a minute the presence of you to join us. This is the third time we've detected presence. 52 Members and Members are present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In the morning work we discussed the 20th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. We have listened to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Mr Roberto Battelli will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Nationalities. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry and representative of the Ministry of Finance! It's about [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u99	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Battelli represents the opinion of the Group of Members, so I ask you kindly to calm down so that we can hear each other. Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. It's a matter that's not new, which we've already dealt with several times. In fact, it is possible to exempt VAT payments for donations given by the home countries to the national communities. This is mainly the case, as you know, for books, for teaching aids, including computer equipment and other matters used by institutions established in the exercise of the rights of national communities and for national community organisations themselves. So far, for example, the following is happening: for certain donations, certain ministries will then also cover VAT costs. This means that, for bureaucratic reasons, these funds are somehow moving within the country; this is probably not the most rational. On the other hand, these donations represent essentially a relief for the Republic of Slovenia, for example, when it comes to teaching aids and books which the State should otherwise provide. Thus, in my view, there are enough reasons for these donations to be exempt from VAT payments. It is known that these things cannot be alienated and can not be used for any other purpose than those which contribute to the preservation of the linguistic and other identity of the national communities. I would therefore ask the Government to take this into account when drafting a proposal for a second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Does any other Member or Member wish to present the opinion of the Group? I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Only Bevk made a written statement. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. For representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I have a question to deal with in the fisheries context of Slovenia and individual fishing families in Slovenia. It is a matter of determining the rate of value added tax for the sale of daily and annual sports licences for the implementation of sport fishing. The Ministry interprets this activity as belonging to other recreational, cultural and sports activities as class number 92.72. The fact is that all fishing families in Slovenia are registered in the register of societies and classified by activity in the sub-class of aquaculture and fisheries services with code 05.020 and that the decisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food are of public interest. According to this logic, according to the rules on the implementation of value added tax, which deals specifically with exemptions in the public interest and in Article 53, on services related to sport and sports education, I quote: "Services related to sport and sports education, in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 26 of the value added tax law, are services offered by non-profit organisations to an individual such as the Sports Union, the Mountain Union of Slovenia and so on." This sport fishing activity could also be classified within the framework of Article 25, which defines the lower, an 8 - percent value added tax rate, which would still be more favourable than the general 19 - percent rate of taxation. However, I must stress in particular that the Ministry of Agriculture has not just classified a fishing family in Slovenia as a public interest company, as they carry out activities under the law on freshwater fisheries in the protection and management of fish, fisheries and fisheries for the protection of water as part of the natural environment. The same law also provides for the purpose of spending funds, which may only be used for fish farming and protection. Here, in particular, mention that in the area of Soča, Idrijca and other watercourses, a large-scale project of the repopulation of the Soča trout, which is a nationally accepted project, is being implemented and that revenues from the sale of sport fishing permits are being invested exclusively in these and similar projects, as I mentioned earlier. That is why I propose that the Ministry of Finance examine the problem before second reading and propose a lower tax rate or even an exemption from value added tax for sport fishing activities. To this end, I have also prepared a complementary proposal, which you have already received on the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The discussion of the others is now limited to five minutes. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My thinking will probably be quite different. Whoever monitors the income situation of the budget in 2001, both in the media and in other information, it is clear to him that the revenues planned for VAT are far behind. The budget is also based on some revenue projections in 2002 and 2003. I am particularly interested by the government's proponents or representatives in proposing such a change or an increase in the burden or payment of certain services, etc. at a reduced and zero level, this represents in a income sense. Given that some budget expenditure, both subsidies and grants, remains as planned in the basic projection. Grants or subsidies in this area, in this use or in these debtors, which we here forgive or forgive the obligation to pay. What is that resource that you need to have the proponents who are known to make up for this failure? How much reduction in VAT resources, such as income, projects in suspicion, brings this law and where do you replace the source that falls out here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Thus, the proposal itself of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, as we have read and as has been presented, is somehow conditioned by taking into account the acquis of the European Union or by directives which somehow define this legal order more precisely. Here I would like to draw some attention to the situation arising with regard to this proposal, including in the area covered by the so-called public hygiene activity covered by point 17 of the Annex to the Sixth Directive. I would say that the problems involved in coordinating Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation are also often conditioned by the relevant translations, and I think that some derogations have also occurred in this area, which are probably due to inadequate translations that have led to some confusion, in my opinion, in the field of waste management. In fact, the applicant only includes waste collection and disposal activities, waste and residues, but in fact we can understand the whole process of waste management in the concept of waste management. So this is definitely about collecting, transporting, sorting, depositing, incineration and other ways of removing solid waste or, in a broader sense, also recycling residues and waste. So, it's kind of possible that there's a little bit of a broad term that actually covers all of these activities. However, in this area, public hygiene in general has emerged, in fact, an area already taxed at a reduced tax rate under the current value added tax law. This includes sewerage and the operation of cleaning appliances, i.e. collection, separation and treatment of waste water. This has already been pointed out in the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent of the labour force. I would just like to add to this if, however, it is not a mistake or a flaw in all these translations and adjustments of terms, and I would like to point out the fact that in all these activities specific fees are imposed which are intended to actually invest them in the development and fulfilment of Slovenia's obligations to the tasks we have in the field of environmental protection. And if we introduced an additional tax rate or taxed additionally these areas, the price of these services would, at least in my opinion, be too expensive and, in many environments, in fact, difficult to implement. And since there is no other option than to pay the tax as it is, you should probably reduce the price in that part of the price that is designed to raise funds on purpose in these fees or to invest in all these areas later. I therefore propose that the proposer examine this issue in detail until the second reading. To this end, I will also support the views, the Committee's proposal, the working body, which speaks about the fact that the applicant actually examines the comments from the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where this issue, which I would like to present and draw attention to, today in particular, to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all in attendance! My colleague Weber just said almost everything I wanted to say. But in particular, in support of this proposal, I would like to mention the following. In fact, on Tuesday, I highlighted this issue at the point of the agenda. Indeed, in the coming years, the so-called municipal sector will be burdened with very large investments, which will mainly affect local communities. The same aspect was then the wrong answer by the State Secretary for Finance on Monday to my question that in some way private capital could be implemented as well as ISPA funds, which is not true. It is therefore necessary to make very careful changes in value added tax, if we do not give the opportunity to implement both funds, such as ISPA, and also to invest private capital in the construction of sewerage systems, cleaning facilities, then the entire system of collection and handling, recycling of waste and the like, that we will significantly burden the population and, in fact, very difficult at this time, which is foreseen by the State of Slovenia in its negotiations with the European Union, to make all the necessary investments in this area. That is why I actually support the proposal made by my colleague Vebra, because I think it would make sense for the applicant to examine this area thoroughly before the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Because no one wants Mr. Kebrich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. I have a better question for representatives of the Ministry of Finance. We hear voices about thinking about raising these tax rates, and I wonder whether it would not be useful to open this debate now in the first debate on this proposal to be included now, or whether the government will then come after a rapid process with a change in tax rates. Thank you very much. I recommend an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies, colleagues and colleagues! If this proposal concerns harmonisation with the European Union, of course, I agree. However, I am personally in the position that taxes should be reduced as much as possible, assuming, of course, that the government finds other solutions, such as increasing taxes in other areas - has not been seen so far. I would just like to ask, with regard to discrimination in the reduction of tax rates for taxis, examples of taxis. Here you say that practice has shown that in taxi drivers there is a possibility of misuse of vehicles for personal purposes, while it seems that this does not hold for school. I think they both apply the same degree of potential abuse. However, I agree that control is probably more difficult for taxi drivers, because there are many more than a school. However, I do not see any other difference, because if the country is well organised in tax control, it should be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Koncan, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. So in today's debate on the first reading of the amendment proposal and the addition of the value added tax law, several proposals were put forward, in particular the position given in writing, which was also transmitted on the bench by Mr Davorin Terčona. First of all, I would like to speak with you about this supplement. In fact, it is proposed that, of course, when preparing material for second reading, we take into account and complement all these provisions which provide for exemptions that are exempt from value added tax, with two sub-levels. In this regard, it should be said that first in order to, of course, exempt the movement of goods and services in customs zones, free tariff zones and so on. It should, of course, be stressed that if we persisted in such a proposal or such a bill, we would in fact put all domestic, all the equivalent services provided at home. In fact, if the services rendered on the customs goods were to be placed under a exempt activity, it would, of course, deprive me of all those services of the same kind at home, which are essentially carried out in domestic traffic or in normal business between taxable persons. We therefore consider that, of course, such a proposal by the government would not be possible as such to include it or to include it in additions and changes to the law. For the second part of this supplement or this proposal, I would like to say that, of course, two types of services or VAT payments need to be separated, i.e. when it comes to the handling of goods in these zones. As regards the transport of goods and services related to customs goods in these zones: At the time of their entry into our country, these imports are already exempt from VAT in the customs zone. However, it is a second phase when certain traffic is carried out between taxable persons, either between users or those who manufacture those who manipulate goods in customs zones, so that these services are therefore exempt. If we had done so, of course, we would have made a certain mistake, because of course we would have preferred the use of foreign repromaterials, which domestic legal persons, manufacturers or suppliers essentially use in their production. Of course, once again in terms of equality in economic business, such a solution would not be acceptable as such in terms of the national economy. Some other initiatives, which have been given both in terms of exploring the possibility of lower value added tax rates for the sale of fishing licences, will be explored. With regard to the written proposal to include dietary nutrition among products subject to a lower tax rate or a reduced tax rate, I find that this is already covered in one way or another, because diet and plain food, all of this is already, I would say, taxed at a reduced rate of 8%. In this context, we do not understand why this should be stated if food is food, whether it is dieting or otherwise. Regarding public hygiene services, I must say that, earlier today, in the introduction, I did not mention that we, in the preparation of the law or the addition and amendment of the value added tax law, have done a number of consultations, discussions, interviews with various interest associations, proponents, some of whom have also been involved, including with some of the parties to their proposals - and we have also studied certain things in the context of public hygiene services. We will re-examine this, in particular in the light of Mr Weber's warning about the possible interpretation of what belongs to public hygiene services such as the H Annex to the 6th Directive essentially covers in the original English text and allows for the possibility that, when properly interpreted, such a proposal could be accepted, since it was basically also meant, but perhaps there is little awkward diction, which could result in ambiguity in implementation. Regarding financial effects: So if you have read in detail the explanations and also the introductory explanation of why individual changes and additions are proposed, we are in no way extending any exemptions or services and goods transport at a reduced rate. Because I have to say, as regards the reduced rate, the application of the reduced rate, we are one of the few countries that has taken advantage of 100 percent of all possible indents and the possibilities under the H Annex to the 6th Directive to use a reduced rate for certain products, services. So, with the amendments to individual articles, we only further clarify the dictatorships, make more transparent, unequivocal application of the law in practice, by no means expanding the application of the reduced rate to certain new products or services. As far as the so-called true exemption or the zero degree is concerned. See, a real exemption or a zero rate, as you may be, who have carefully read the information that we have prepared for this law, to which I would refer again and again, just to clarify this rather complex issue. We say that, of course, the right exemption is intended and practically permitted only in the case of exports. It is precisely because we avoid this because the real exemption is that the goods or services are exempt, so that they are not taxed, but at the same time the person who does this service or the traffic of the goods can charge the entry tax. This principle is therefore in the system of value added tax in order not to result in so-called double taxation. For if we, for example, were to export from Slovenia to Austria, this exporter would be taxed with us, and of course an Austrian importer or buyer under Austrian law would, according to the system of value added tax, pay just as much at the time of import of VAT, so there would be double taxation. Therefore, this general value added tax system, taking into account the so-called destination principle, is to tax this final consumption where it is spent - that is, according to the destination principle. It therefore assumes that the right exemption or zero rate, with the possibility of refunding the entry tax, is essentially allowed only for export purposes. Indeed, it is only for information that they have been negotiating in the European Union for a long time, but because of the complexity of the changeover on the principle of 'origin', that is, where the origin of this added value is, because value added tax is basically a tax on something that is being created in a new way. But this is only created in a country or in a territory where this value is created, not where it is consumed. However, this requires long-term coordination processes between the Member States, and this is one of the biggest and also, I would say, the most turbulent discussions between the members of the European Union, due to the financial implications of the change in the fiscal systems of the Member States of the European Union in this area. Because those countries that generate a lot of added value are, of course, disadvantaged today because they are, of course, exporting to other countries that are net importers, and then this tax is collected in countries, net importers, instead of where the added value is created. In short, the right exemption, the zero rate is allowed and possible only in the case of exports, as long as this principle of destination applies. With regard to the proposal to propose simultaneously in these amendments to the law, I would also like to say that, at the same time, there may be a substantial increase in the general level of the budget, where, in principle, we anticipate the possibility of applying, as of course, in the coalition contract, as it is envisaged that, in the case of the income scheme, we would have the lowest burden on me, I would say, the taxpayers and that this loss would potentially be compensated by a slightly higher rate, for 1%, of value added tax. However, this is all still in the coordination phase of the calculations. As in 2003, it is not possible to do so, so we do not think that it is necessary to propose an increased rate, which could possibly be applied in 2003, in the light of the current amendment to this first revision. This is why we have not included this proposal so far, and it is not essentially the subject of an audit, this first revision, which was planned for 2001. However, since we have a second revision of the law, where we will primarily harmonise our system of value added tax, in particular from the point of view of intra-Community transport, real transport between Member States, the Member States of the European Union in the following year, and, of course, if, in the context of the budgetary debate and policy, a starting point is adopted for possible distortions to be replaced by an increased rate of value added tax, then, of course, we will prepare this in the following year. A partial response to potential discrimination with regard to taxi vehicles. We have foreseen that, of course, those who import or buy vehicles for taxi transport - and therefore the Member is right to say that such an explanation has been given. Because, according to material legislation, the schools have substantially regulated, made more transparent operations, i.e. with other additional material regulations, which is not available in the case of the operation of taxis. However, we must not forget at the same time that if they are somehow reduced here, such as importers, i.e. those who import and buy taxi service vehicles, they have a reduced tax rate in the provision of a taxi service, as is permitted by this Annex, and in this way they are slightly or essentially calculated, if I may say so, this, at this point, may be the difference between individual vehicle customers. Thus, in European practice, there are different arrangements for the purchase of vehicles for the purposes of taxi transport, for the school and for those companies that rent cars or vehicles. And I note that we have now allowed a refund of the entry tax for motor schools and for those who rent vehicles, while for taxi services not yet, because certain material legislation must, of course, be much more rigorous, transparent and that we will be able to follow this. At the same time, as I said, it is allowed for taxi services to charge 8 per cent of VAT, i.e. at a reduced rate. We, as was previously said in the introductory debate by the leader of the SDS Group, would have said that, irrespective of this information that we have prepared in order to be tax-oriented, to all the initiatives that have been taken so far in this assembly, this year, and also already proposed - which we have partly responded to or said that, when we propose a new VAT law, I can say by the Government that, of course, not only will we re-examine these options, we will indeed add to this information, as you wish, tax-listed things, even though in point 5 of this information, very systematically, clearly and visually say why all these specific initiatives are not acceptable. However, if that is the case, we will complete this information and then we will complement and expand this information for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Would you like to discuss it again? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. One question arises - I will not say that I have not been given certain explanations in relation to this significant zero rate. According to the data available to me, there is no reason that a zero rate would normally be linked only to those products that go into export and, of course, then solve problems, as the Secretary of State correctly said, but is a zero rate, so to speak, many also, let's say, politically motivated for a certain segment of things. And what is being asked as a question in Slovenia is whether or not certain programmes in the field of culture and science, where language and space restrictions are involved, can be stimulated in such a way as to produce a zero rate. Experience also shows that the British, who have the largest market, say, cause floods of these cultural goods, and if I limit myself to the book, including the flood of the press, at least this is how the annual reviews of these book fairs by Bologna, Frankfurt, London and beyond show a zero rate. Is there any chance that this exception, related to the British experience, will still be applied, or will we be given the answer that this is something that the British already have, and others who later entered the train can no longer apply it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Školč, for this additional question; otherwise, we have examined or answered it in part at the previous reading. I would like to say that you are right when you find that there is a zero rate in the UK for the book, but I will explain two reasons why we cannot bring the same thing in. In fact, the members of the European Union agreed between themselves in the 1990s that, during the transitional period that they had originally announced for 1996 and subsequently extended to a further one, they would allow the use of certain practices or certain solutions in national legislation, as at the time when they negotiated them, they would also have negotiated with each other in national systems. This is the first reason that Britain has essentially kept this so-called zero rate in the book. The second reason is this. Even if, let's say, just from these, I would say, noble goals and purposes that a Slovenian book or any other form of expression of Slovenian national identity would be taxed with nothing or to be forgiven, of course we would not be able to do any discrimination to any other imported book that would come from another area of speech, and would in fact come back to me in the same situation so that the book, whether in Slovenian language or the book is imported from other countries, would apply to such a book, let's say, to this proposal a zero rate. Thus, we would not put in any better economic position the Slovenian book in relation to the imported foreign book. So, if possible - of course, the third reason is that the 6th Directive does not allow this possibility and that for all those countries that are in negotiations for accession to the European Union, of course, these exceptions to the general rule are not allowed, and therefore, for this last reason, we cannot formally propose such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. So now I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law, the first reading, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 44 of us present. This is not the first time we have held a valid vote. Is this the second time we are voting on a proposal for a decision? We're voting. There are 40 of us in attendance. For the second time, we did not vote on the proposal for a decision in force. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 3:42 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u120	All those of you who are near the Chamber, please join us, because in a minute we will have a third vote on the motion for a decision. Your Honor! We're continuing the session. We therefore decide on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body with the following content: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law, the first reading, is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." We are voting on the proposed decision for the third time. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body - two points of view. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions of the parent working body. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the proposals are adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on complementary proposals to the position of the parent working body. First of all, I am putting to the debate a complementary proposal, which is proposed by Davorin Terčon. Anybody want to talk? Mr Končan has already presented the government's definition of complementary proposals in the course of the debate, a general debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal proposed by Davorin Terčon. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 27 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the complementary proposal proposed by Lydia Majnik. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are also moving on to a debate and decision on the complementary proposal, of which only Bevk is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Here you are, Mr. Christmas, I'm sorry, Mr. Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u121	It's true that Christmas and I are together, but Christmas is a hunter. I think that Mr Bevk himself should add here "even for the purposes of hunting", not only fishing, but, in fact, fishing, some kind of sporting activity, such or other, otherwise for his own enjoyment to the greatest extent, but if we reduce it for fishermen, we should also for the hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more and since it is no longer possible to make proposals for complementary positions at this stage, we are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal by Mr Sam Bevk. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 21. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has not been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and our secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual encouragement and protection of investment. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss the proposed decision? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There were 36 of us in attendance, or at least so many of us, who pressed one of the buttons. I'm afraid that's not enough. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues who are near us, we are in the stage of considering the ratification of agreements. A few votes will be required, so please join us so that we can make a valid decision. On the proposal for a decision, as I have presented it, that we will only vote on the bill in full, because no amendments have been tabled, we are voting for a second time. We're voting. Again, we have failed to hold a valid vote. I'm adjourning session in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 4:00. Once again, I ask you kindly, because we will make quite a few votes in the future, so that we can gather in the hall at 4: 00 a.m. so that we can do the quality work that is yet to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u123	We will have a third vote on the proposal for a decision and there are not enough Members and Members in the Chamber. Once again, I ask you to come to the hall so that we can make the vote. The third time, therefore, we will vote on the proposal for a decision to vote only on the draft law in its entirety, because amendments were not tabled before the proposal was discussed. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are therefore going to vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking with mothers, terrorism and other forms of criminality. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose once again to the assembly that, in accordance with Rule 213 of the Rules of Procedure, only vote on the draft law as a whole. We're voting. At the first vote, I find that there are only 43 of us present, I think there are more of us. May I have your attention, please? Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Czech Republic on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? He doesn't want to.) The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal of this Act before the opening of the hearing, I propose that the assembly decide, in accordance with Article 213, second paragraph, to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. We haven't been paying attention yet. I think there's more of us in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision. Once again, I ask you to press one of the keys. We'll vote next time. Unfortunately, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have no other option than to suspend the meeting in 10 minutes. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, this shows our attitude towards our profession. Continue work will be 16 hours and 16 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u124	Dear Members and honourable Members! Again [[third]] We will therefore vote on the proposal for a decision so that the National Assembly will vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. This is the third time we have decided on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of France. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the discussion, I propose that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 213, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 45 present; I think there are more of us in the hall, so I ask your attention. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On the occasion of the day-to-day review of the draft act on the succession of agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which remains in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The draft act was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft act was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft act by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, conclude that it will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed act is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on National Personal Instruments of Support - this is the Convention of the International Organization of the Work of Number 108. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Nobody wants to. Members and Members shall have the floor. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, decide that it will vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Employment and Working Conditions and Lives of Executives of Health Care - this is the Convention of the International Organization of Work No. 149. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] He also does not want a representative of the secretariat. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the assembly decide, in accordance with Rule 213, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, that it vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the European Agreement on the regulation of the movement of persons between the Member States of the Council of Europe. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, decide that it will vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. We have therefore held discussions and decisions on the proposals for ratification laws. I thank the representatives of the government and the representative of the secretariat very much for working with us. On the basis of the agenda, the National Assembly is scheduled to proceed to the 29th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Fees. I don't think the mother's working body has yet done the examination, nor has it done the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the police under order number 30, nor under order number 31, so I suggest we move on to 32. Period of the day - another defense proposal for the Amnesty Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u125	First, if you'll excuse me, Madam Vice President, I'd like to say a few words. "It is neither this point nor this point," it is necessary to know that today or at this meeting we have already addressed the eight points addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy and that the failure to say so is our secretariat for legislation and legal affairs as much as it can be done. And, of course, it cannot be expected if from just over 20 points of content, which are 12 points that should be dealt with by this committee, I have to conclude that without a truly voluntary approach by all the members and members of this committee who are attending, above all, extraordinary meetings of the committee, we simply cannot prepare as many points as there are now. With regard to the report itself on the proposal for an amnesty law, I say that no specific interpretation of the report is required. On the contrary, the opinion of the Committee is that, as drafted in the proposal for a decision, the Committee has adopted a decision, proposes to the National Assembly and adopt a second reading law together with amendments proposed or supported by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters in the future is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to considering and deciding on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a read decision. Let's vote! There are 45 of us present. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order not to interrupt our session again, everyone who is in the vicinity please join us, because we will be voting on the proposal for a decision next time. This is the second time we have voted on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Since we failed to hold a valid vote for the second time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for ten minutes. We continue our work at 4:41 p.m. when we vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, it is not right for the co-workers and co-workers who are in the Chamber to cause so much interruption in the work of the National Assembly with your absence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u127	Dear Members, honourable Members. We will re-decision, thirdly, on the proposal to decide that the assembly, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. This is the third time we have voted on this proposal. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments you received today on the bench, bearing the date 25.10.2001 - we have amendments to the four articles. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 1 of which the Committee on Internal Policy is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 2 and on the two amendments to Article 2; under order number one is the amendment of the parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and under order number two is the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The amendment to Article 2 which speaks of which acts are not subject to the amnesty that we are accepting today. Of course, we accept the law as such, it's acceptable, and it's almost too late, but nothing about it. We are amending that part that deals with the 297th Article of the Penal Code, these are the offences: the crime of criminal association. With us, in our party, we believe that these are crimes that should not be regarded as amnesty, as well as the whole set of crimes referred to in Article 2. We believe that this is an act that does not deserve amnesty, so of course we ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'll discuss the second amendment under order number two. The Liberal Democracy Group proposed to the Home Committee that Article 2 should be supplemented, specifying which amnesty convicts would not be subject to. We have proposed that the offences listed in Article 2 also include an offence of abuse of official status and of official rights, because we believe that this is a specific crime, both in terms of the degree of social danger and in particular from the perspective of the perpetrator. For such offences, it is only a person who has been granted an official position by the State by law and has been empowered to perform official duties. Infringement of the trust or service of such a crime is in the final stages of a poor light on both the State and its institutions, and therefore such a crime must be dealt with in our view with in extreme seriousness. In doing so, it does not matter how high the sentence was imposed on the convicted person. From the point of view of general prevention, it is therefore not appropriate to impose amnesty on such perpetrators, as we will thus prove and make it clear that there are no excuses for such crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. Obviously, we didn't pay enough attention. I politely ask for your attention. This is the second time we have decided on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article, whose proposer is the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. I just want to explain whether this amendment is now in line with the amendments we have adopted in Article 2. It is said that these indents - now I do not have all the material in front of me - also include those we have now added by adopting the first and second amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u134	Article 3 provides for an exception in this part to allow amnesty for serious offences to persons over 60 years of age. In the LDS Group, we have examined this Government proposal and assessed that the proposal is not good and that is why we have also drafted an amendment on the Home Committee. Its content is essentially that, according to our assessment, it would be unacceptable for persons over 60 years of age to reduce the punishment they have been sentenced to when serious crimes are committed. In particular, crimes against life and the body, then crimes against sexual inviolability, crimes related to trafficking in drugs and violent gain of property, such as various forms of eviction, as well as at the symbolic level of the crime of hijacking of aircraft, ships. We believe that in this way we give a clear sign to all those who think in any way of such crimes, that amnesty will not apply to them. We think this proposal is a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, we owe you an explanation. Mr Wohinz and the representative of the secretariat are on your question, I think that the amendments to Article 2 that we have adopted will be possible to make a recalculation with the editor, otherwise the matter is consistent. Thank you. If no one else wants to discuss Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 43 of us here, I think there are more of us, so I'm really asking for your attention. Another time. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 3. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 5 and the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Wohinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u136	Madam Vice President! If you allow me, I would suggest that, in accordance with Article 194, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a third hearing be carried out in this respect. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u137	As part of this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u138	Since the amendments are adopted within 7 days, Members will then receive them at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. So first of all, I am putting forward a proposal for a decision, which I have already said that the proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss this decision? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I also propose to the assembly that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With regard to the proposed proposal for a decision, who would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Undersecretary of State, Mr Bohinc, for his cooperation. Secretariat representatives, thank you very much. We're moving to 33. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A MATERIAL DUTY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? He does. Dr. Tomaž Time, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u140	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. On 25.4.2001, the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a law on substantive duty at first reading and instructed the Government to submit it for second reading, taking into account the comments made by the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly and the comments and opinions of the debate. In accordance with the opinion of the secretariat, the applicant used the descriptive term of the Ministry in all articles, and the term 'description funds' is also used consistently in the law. The second paragraph of Article 15 no longer mentions the "heavy position of the holder", but the call of the vehicle may be deferred if the vehicle is solely in the family and has children who have not yet reached the age of 16. The provisions of Article 19 in20 are also fulfilled. Articles, as regards the substitute. In Article 28, however, the text has been supplemented. In this way, all the proposals in the debate are taken into account. The proposer has thus taken into account all the requirements of the National Assembly and is also taking into account the opinion of the secretariat that three more editorial corrections should be made. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt the law in second reading and I propose that the third consideration of the law be carried out at the same meeting or in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since no amendments have been tabled and the opinion of the Secretariat is merely editorial corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Petan, I'm sorry, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence considered a proposal for a law on substantive duty submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the draft law and of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. Representatives of the government, the ministry, attended the meetings of the committee. In the introduction, the text of the proposal for a law on substantive duty for the second reading was presented by the representative of the applicant. In doing so, the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs found that the drafter had taken full account of the conclusions, comments and views of the State Assembly in his preliminary consideration when preparing the legislative text for the second reading. The secretariat had no comments on the text so prepared, not in terms of compliance with the Constitution and not from a systemic point of view. In doing so, the representative of the secretariat also stated that the secretariat had pointed out in its opinion some editorial shortcomings in the legislative proposal. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a law on substantive duty to debate on the Committee. The Defence Committee has not drafted its own amendments to the proposal for a law on substantive duty. Following the discussion, the Defence Committee took into account the opinion of the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters and adopted the following decision on a proposal from the representative of the Secretariat: "The Committee of the National Defence Council agrees that the secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly shall, in the light of the comments it has made, regulate the text of the legislative proposal in the final edition." The Committee of the National Defence Council proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of the second reading, to support the text of the proposal for a law on substantive duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. Given that no amendments were tabled in the second reading, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the fifth indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, it should hold a full debate and vote on the proposal. We are voting on this proposal. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are nearby, please join us so that we can make the vote. This Decision will not be adopted if one third of the Members oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 43 of us present. Since our colleagues are already joining us, we will secondly vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting for ten minutes. We will continue at 5:13 p.m. when we vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u144	Dear Members, honourable Members, who are near the Plenary Hall, I ask you to join us, because in 30 seconds we will have a third vote on the proposal for a decision. I have proposed to the assembly, given that no amendments have been tabled in the second reading, in accordance with the fifth indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a debate and to vote on the proposal in full or on all articles at once. On this proposal, which will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present, we vote for the third time. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That is why I am putting forward a proposal for a law in full debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on all the articles of the bill. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing all the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. Given that no amendments have been tabled in the second reading and on the basis of a proposal from the proposers, I propose that we move to the third reading of the draft law in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting this proposal to the national assembly for discussion and decision. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the draft law in the same text, which was submitted for second reading. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] As it is not possible to submit amendments to the bill, we are moving through the third reading to a full vote on the bill. Is the law consistent? [[Yeah.]] We are moving on to a decision in the context of the third debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, including the representatives of the secretariat. We're moving to 34. Agenda item - First draft of the law on testing and branding of handguns, ammunition, apparatus and devices. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Dr. Boštjan Antončič, State Secretary in the Ministry of Economy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on testing and branding of handguns, ammunition, appliances and devices at first reading. Let me tell you a little bit about the background of this marriage. In accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Slovenia has expressed its intention to accede to the Convention on the mutual recognition of trade marks for firearms. This is the CIP Convention. On the basis of the law of the Ministry of Economy, Decision No 214 1/01 IK of 29 May of this year established an authorised organisation for testing, branding of handguns, ammunition and apparatus. This is Elektroplastika d.o.o., which still needs to get the equipment, most likely under the Phare project. At its 33rd meeting, on 21.6., the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposal for a law on the testing and stamping of handguns, ammunition, appliances and devices and sent it to the National Assembly for first reading. In the short term, a new inter-ministerial commission will be set up to coordinate the work and activities in the area of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the CIP Convention, to prepare sub-legislative acts and to prepare systemic solutions for the operation, organisation or testing laboratory. At today's meeting, we propose the Ministry of Economy or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposal of the Committee of the National Economic Assembly, which proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of the decisions and opinions set out in the report of the Committee, an annex to the invitation to the 9th session. In doing so, the drafter shall ensure that the comments of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly, the comments of Elektroplastika Križevci at Ljutomer are duly taken into account and the comments made at the meeting of the Committee of the National Economic Assembly. In accordance with the decision of the Committee, the Government delivered the text of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Marks for Small Arms. The government will accelerate activities in the preparation of the proposal for a law on ratification of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Marks for Handguns. The test rules and other sub-legal acts will be drawn up in the second quarter of the following year. I therefore propose that you support the proposal for a law on the testing and branding of handguns, ammunition, appliances and devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. [[There's no rapporteur.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal of the law on the testing and branding of handguns, ammunition, appliances and devices, first reading, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second treatment law." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the two positions that have been drawn up by the mother's working body and are recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on two positions of the parent's working body. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the views have been fully adopted. The mother labour body also proposed two additional decisions, which it did not propose to be adopted by the national assembly, but addressed them to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, within the framework of its powers, is obliged to take them into account. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would also like to thank the representative of the secretariat for his cooperation. Thank you very much. We should move on to the 35th item of the agenda, this is the annual report on the work of the State Audit Commission in 2000. Unfortunately, since the National Assembly has moved extremely quickly to this point of the agenda, the services of the State Assembly at 3.30 p.m. to the representative of the candidates have failed to inform that this item will be on the agenda today, so if the National Assembly permits it, it would move on to the 36th item of the agenda, which is to consider the agreement to the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The representatives of the Court of Auditors are here, so I invite them to the Chamber. So we move on to 36. On the day-to-day basis, this is in favour of an agreement with the Member of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The Rules of Procedure were forwarded by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in agreement with the Assembly. Does the Court of Auditors want a word? President Dr. Antončič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u147	Your Honor! The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors shall lay down in detail the manner and procedure for the exercise of the audit powers of the Court of Auditors in accordance with the law and shall be adopted by the Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The Senate had to adopt and send it in agreement with the National Assembly within six months of the entry into force of the new law on the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber of the Court of Auditors adopted the Rules of Procedure, in particular the first text of the Rules of Procedure at its meeting on 20.7. The text of the Rules of Procedure was sent to the National Assembly. A procedure for obtaining consent has been initiated. The text of the Rules of Procedure has been allocated to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. A legal opinion was asked by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. The secretariat had a lot of comments on the first text of the Rules of Procedure. Fortunately, their comments were mostly of a nomotechnical nature. The wording of the Rules of Procedure was thoroughly nomotechnically falsified. Mr Bajuk, President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, also made a number of comments to the first text of the Rules of Procedure. The Court of Auditors has examined the observations and established a new text, the second text of the Rules of Procedure by which we replaced the first text. The second text was adopted on 14.9 this year. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has not raised any substantive legal concerns to the other text of the Rules of Procedure. However, Mr Bajuk, together with two other members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, still made a number of comments, the proposals for corrections, to the second text of the Rules of Procedure. The comments were discussed at a meeting of the Commission on 9.10. this year. After several months of discussion, the differences in positions were not significantly reduced. The members of the Senate of the Court of Auditors have ruled that we will not lay down a new text of the Rules of Procedure and that we are trying to obtain agreement on the second text of the Rules of Procedure which has been tabled in the National Consent Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure have treated the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances as the parent working body. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Dr. Andrey Bayuk, chairman of the commission, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. As has already been reported by Dr Antončič, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has twice addressed this Rules of Procedure and, after a long and extensive debate, I have proposed as chair that the Commission should not give its consent - I would not recommend that the National Assembly give its consent to this Rules of Procedure. This proposal was not adopted, i.e. "contrariu sensu". I have to report, and I am also doing so now that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has decided by a majority that the Rules of Procedure are appropriate for the agreement of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Dr Andrej Bajuk will present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. I now speak as the leader of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and I would like to convey to the National Assembly our opinion that we will not vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure, as presented by the Court of Auditors. These are the reasons that are widely presented in this report, which all respected colleagues have and do not want to go into all the details, although I think this is absolutely necessary. In particular, I would like to draw attention to Article 49. In the provisions providing for the protection of confidentiality, we have requested and still believe that provisions on the confidentiality of the work programme of the Court of Auditors should be deleted. We believe that it is necessary for the national assembly or its competent working body to provide an overview of the draft and draft audit report when the final audit reports are being considered. As you well know, when this law was passed, and in the first months of the functioning of this State Assembly in its current composition, we have also opposed this proposal, a bill which has also been brought before the Constitutional Court. On the basis of our powers, we have also presented our opinion to the Court of Auditors and this process is still under way. We were counting on the possibility that there would only be a consensus in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure in order to welcome some of the provisions that we consider to be negative for the future work of the Court of Auditors, but that has not happened. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to say that we will vote against this, we will not give our consent, and we also hope that our colleagues and colleagues will join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Zoran Gračner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u153	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and representatives of the Court of Auditors! The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors are due to the amended Law on the Court of Auditors, which was also adopted this year in this National Assembly. This Rules of Procedure were adopted by the Chamber of the Court of Auditors and also within the prescribed time limit, i.e. up to 6 months, 20 months. For the first time in agreement, he was sent to the National Assembly. Since the Secretariat had some comments which had been taken into account, the second text was adopted by the Senate on 14.9. However, on 9.10., the Commission adopted and endorsed the budget and other public finances in such a revised form, so that this was also a condition for reaching consensus in this national assembly. On behalf of the LDS Group, I am publishing or predicting that we will adopt this Rules of Procedure, as this is also a condition for the continued functioning of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Someone would like to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Ivan Kebric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since I am also a member of this Commission for the supervision of public finances, in this Commission we have discussed in depth the first draft of the Rules of Procedure, and now the new one, which, to put it this way, has been complemented by the Commission to some extent by the comments we had on the Supervisory Board. We believe that this Rules of Procedure are not only necessary, not only useful, but even necessary for the good work of this Court of Auditors. We therefore believe that the text is appropriate and that our Group of Members will vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have taken very seriously the rules of procedure of the Court of Auditors and we have also been very patient and also persistent, both in the first coordination and in the second. When I received this report on the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, I could, of course, find out from this minutes, that we are slightly altering the content of a report in this regard, and we also wanted to openly acknowledge that the Court of Auditors has accepted almost all the suggestions that have been made today by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. Therefore, I do not know why this report should be specifically highlighted and this second hearing, which was concluded on 9 October, was also guided and carried out as stated by the President of the Court. The result of the vote, there were six of us, was 3:3, and as such, of course, was then given as a conclusion as a positive opinion on this report. I think that all the legal provisions of the law itself have been taken into account, and we have also sought to see that the Rules of Procedure have been adopted, otherwise not adopted in September or October, which also provides a normal basis for the functioning of the Court of Auditors as defined by its function and position in the law itself. Therefore, the Members of the United List of Social Democrats will also confirm or give their consent to the said Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u159	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. We had a lot of comments on the law on the Court of Auditors, including a lot of comments on the Rules of Procedure itself. In view of what has already been said several times today that most of these comments have been taken into account by the Court of Auditors, and of those comments which have not been taken into account, we have given a satisfactory response in our Group of Members of this opinion that we will support this Rules of Procedure, as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. After I have listened to the views of the groups of Members, there will obviously not be enough votes not to give their consent to the Rules of Procedure. I am sure that this national assembly will very soon have major problems in this particular area, because the uncertainties that are still present will cause some problems and time will prove it. However, I am convinced that the Court of Auditors is one of the key institutions of our country, which we need to strengthen and support, that it will truly have broad credibility and also have an impact on everything that is happening in our area of public finances. We are confident that the confusion and some conclusions, such as those I specifically mentioned in Article 49, will cause a great deal of trouble for this national assembly to carry out its duties. I therefore continue to announce that we will vote against this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the decision: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. 3101-4/01-5 of 17.9.2001. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 17. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the President of the Court of Auditors, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and our secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 37. At the end of the day, that's the point of love and self-reliance. With regard to this item of the agenda, we will first consider the proposal for a decree establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, then the proposal for a decree amending the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia and under 3) the proposal for a decree appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals, together with the report, have been forwarded to the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission for its consideration. We are therefore moving first to a debate on an individual motion for a decree. We will first consider the proposal for a decree establishing a Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. Does the representative of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. To vote, I propose a decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 38. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Would you like a representative of the Elections and Appointments Commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. The meeting was scheduled to continue as agreed in the College on Tuesday 30 at 2 p.m., with the only item prepared, this is item 35, addressing the annual report on the work of the State Audit Commission in 2000. Since the agreement at the college was one that probably did not anticipate that we would be able to make it by Thursday, so to this day, to do work on so many items that were on the agenda, to inform colleagues and colleagues that you will receive a notice of the continuation of the meeting tomorrow. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u163	Procedural, if you'll excuse me. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances has decided to place the report of this audit committee on the agenda for one essential reason, which does not require members of this committee to be present today. If you allow me, we can do this because it is finally three decisions on the new Public Procurement Act, as proposed in this report, which we all agreed unanimously on in the Commission. It is only three decisions in which we impose on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit a new law on public procurement as soon as possible, taking into account not only what this audit committee has already learned from its own experience, but also on the basis of what the professional public in Slovenia has already warned in recent months. That is why I propose, if you are, colleagues and colleagues, that we do this now and this concludes the entire agenda of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'm judging the National Assembly. Normally, the National Assembly invited the proposer to present his opinion or, in this case, a report. It is not the applicant's fault that he has not been informed in time, so, honourable Members and Members, I ask you, on the basis of Dr Andre Bajuk's procedural proposal, to complete the 35th point without a proposal. I am putting this proposal to the decision of the National Assembly. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 6. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. So we move on to 35. It's a day's work. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Andrej Bajuk informed us that there is not much work left to do, so please, because we have consciously decided to do the 35th item until the end of today, so we are moving on to the consideration of the ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE STATE AUDIT COMMISSION IN THE YEAR 2000. The material was treated by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances as a parent labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, president, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. This report would really recommend that anyone interested in what is happening in our public finances read it thoroughly. It is a new institution, a new institution that has clearly drawn work in a very efficient way and which, in this report, brings us to the attention of certain problems and problems that we have adopted unanimously in the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, three conclusions which I would like to present here, with respect for my fellow Members and colleagues. The first is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the annual report on the work of the State Audit Commission in 2000 and notes that there are still many problems not addressed in the area of public finances, public procurement and the revision of public procurement procedures. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the State Audit Commission to revise the procedures for awarding public contracts to the Republic of Slovenia in order to produce an appropriate analysis and prepare the thesis to amend and supplement the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. In doing so, it should pay particular attention to those changes and additions that are necessary to effectively achieve the objectives and guide European procurement guidelines. Thirdly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and submit, as soon as possible, for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly, amendments to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures and amendments to the law on public procurement. In addition to the comments already made by contracting authorities, tenderers and other experts, it should also take into account the proposals of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures. I propose that the National Assembly adopt these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the conclusions of the parent working body. The home working body of the assembly proposes to adopt the conclusions set out in the supplementary report, which have just been fully presented by the president of the home working body. Anybody want a word? Procedural proposal, please, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u167	I ask for a 10-minute recess because in the Group of Liberal Democracy we would like to agree on a position on the proposals that are coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u168	Mr. Kavčič, a break before making a decision? If I understand correctly, we would like a 10-minute recess before deciding on the proposal for decisions submitted by the mother's working body. I'm closing the debate. In 10 minutes, we will vote on the proposal for conclusions. I think that in this way we will be able to achieve what Dr. Andrej Bayuk suggested. At 6 p.m., we will decide on a proposal for the decisions of the parent working body. This is not so much that we could not round up a rather successful part of the national assembly. At 18.04 we will vote on the proposal for conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u169	Dear Members and honourable Members! Before we move to a decision on the proposals for conclusions, we will be able to identify the conclusion. We're detecting a presence. There are 46 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I ask the representative of liberal democracy, would he like to explain his position before the decision? Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u170	We have reconsidered the proposal and I can say that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. We will vote on all three proposals for conclusions at once. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decisions are adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Allow me just a brief notice. Given that we have processed all the points that have been prepared - points 8, 9, 29, 30, 31 and 37 are still open, we will deal with them after the competent working bodies have prepared them for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. So my conclusion I made earlier to inform you when the 9th meeting will continue is true. You'll be informed tomorrow. I don't think that's gonna be Tuesday, because the working bodies of these points will certainly not be considering this until Tuesday. Thank you so much for your cooperation and good night.
