ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u1	Please insert your cards! Please insert your cards into the voting device! Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Bogomir Vnučec, Victory Jelinčič, Branko Janc, Franc Čebulj, Bojan Kontič for the morning part of the session, Jelko Kacin, Alojz Peterle, Villa Trofenik for the beginning of the session, Jože Ašič for the beginning of the session and Dr Slavko Gaber until 11.30 a.m. There are too few Members and Members in the Chamber right now to continue their work, so we will wait a few minutes. I would like to say that the session of the Elections and Appointments Commission lasted until - please turn off the phones - that it lasted until the beginning, so that the colleagues will soon be in the hall. I ask that colleagues and colleagues insert ballots into the voting apparatus. Once again, I ask all Members and Members who are not in the Chamber to report to the Chamber because a meeting of the National Assembly has started. If we don't make a decision soon, I'll suggest a 15-minute break. I ask colleagues and colleagues to insert a ballot into the device so that we can determine the presence in the Chamber. Colleagues and colleagues who have not yet come to the hall, please report to the Chamber because we will continue the second session of the National Assembly. We're continuing our session. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! [[48 Members and Members.]] The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting and welcome everyone. Today's follow-up to the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 22nd item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of injustices. Then the assembly will move on to the 23rd item, this is a proposal for a law on librarianism, and in order to proceed. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, that's the third defensively proposed bill on amendments to the guilt law. The draft law was prepared by Mr Leon Gostiš, a member of the previous reference for the third reading, and the proposed law was later taken over by Mr Rokavec. Does Mr. Rokavec, the proposer, want a word? [[He does.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! As early as 1998, in April, the law was amended by a former parliamentary colleague, Mr Gostiša. Indeed, in January 1998, the 18-month deadline for the submission of applications under the law on the correction of injustices, as well as for requests for review of proceedings, expired. More than 1,200 applications have been submitted in the past year, especially in the belief that applications will be taken into account in a timely and equivalent manner. In view of the delay in the adoption of the law, as well as in the light of the Constitutional Court decision in the case of victims of war violence of 12.12.2000, it was also necessary to extend the reasonable period now laid down in Articles 1 and 2 to submit applications for recognition under the law on the correction of wrongs and its revision until 31.12.2001. I also support the amendment of the parent working body, where it makes more clear the timing of the applications submitted before the amendment of the law and its equivalence in the treatment. A respected choir! In the light of the fact that in some way the majority of the victims are under the law on the correction of the wrongs of the elderly and that they live in isolation, as well as in the light of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of Slovenia as a social and legal state, I propose that you, together with the amendments tabled, support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[Neither do I.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. Anybody want a word? Yes, please, Comrade Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. In this debate, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, this proposal for a law should be supplemented by some new provisions, including those found by the Constitutional Court, that, in view of the specific situation to which this law applies, it is necessary to inform those persons as well. If a law has such short deadlines as to define or which are very strict or short, then it is necessary to inform all citizens in an appropriate manner. This suitability seemed extremely good to me in this case, when they now informed the exiles' society, so to speak, all the citizens of the rights arising from the new acquired rights regarding forced labour in the former countries that occupied our Slovenia. In such a way that I would expect that it would be appropriate, even in this law, to do so once again, that there would not be any additional requirements, that people were not properly informed, that this law should also be introduced, as far as possible now in second reading or in third reading - because I was not on the committee to be able to participate in this law - so that a provision should be laid down that the legislator or the appropriate authority should then be properly informed of all the participants in these rights arising from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Anyone else want a word? Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I support the bill. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice, which, as soon as possible, gave an answer to the question on the basis of which the decision of the home labour body was drawn, how the compensation under this law is based on the Commission's own decisions. I have received, for me, a satisfactory response that the Commission does not have the power to decide on compensation on its own basis until the law on the compensation fund is passed. The second is, of course, the question of judicial, out-of-court or judicial proceedings in progress, where settlement is then concluded. However, I would like to ask and point out in this law that it would be good if we had roughly the same criteria in the National Assembly in similar cases and on similar issues. For a meeting for which a previous reference is made, we have a bill on the compensation fund, and at least something is indirect or direct issues that are interlinked. One such issue is the issue of time. It will have to be understood and counted that the Constitutional Court's decision will provide a reasonable time limit, in short, allowing and allowing everyone to truly register, also taking into account the distance of the problem, and in particular the age of the interested parties, so that we will also take equal account of it in all these laws. The second question, which I know will be very merciless, is the issue of the obligations that arise for the country on this basis. Here it is, and I do not question it, I just note that, of course, the deadline has been extended so that thousands more and more potential beneficiaries will come forward and gain status in this account, and through the status also a certain material right, which means an additional burden for the country. In the same way, it would suggest having the burden criteria of the State in all similar cases. I will, if we don't have that then, point that out, so I'm warning you today. And a third. The question will be whether or not it will be possible and whether it will be right or wrong for very different categories to which we are correcting injustices in a different way, taking into account the same criteria for cumulation or non-cumulation of different grounds for compensation. I would like to point out that our views so far on this basis have not been uniform and the same for all cases. We sometimes feel that it is possible to accumulate rights, and this is the case for now, which gives this right under the law on the correction of injustices and, consequently, under the law, also the fund for the payment of war compensation, possibly linked to the withdrawal of criminal proceedings or the release of sentences. In some other cases, the position is different. I only point out that this is also a very topical issue that will need to be considered when we discuss solutions in other laws. But the time frame is right - too long to discuss - to open up and I think it is open for about 10 months and a half, which is probably a reasonable deadline, so I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to decision-making and debate, of course, on individual amendments. The draft law was tabled: the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 3 and the SLS + SKD Group of Members to Articles 1 and 2. To vote, I propose an amendment to Article 1 to replace the number "2000" in the text of Article with the number "2001" - the proposed SLS + SKD of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting! We're picking up the presence! [[63 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 2 proposes the same amendment group to replace the number "2000" in the text of Article with the number "2001". Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3, the proposer is an internal policy committee. The text of this Article should be amended to read as follows: "All the requirements of Articles 10 and 23 of the Law on the Correction of Unlaws, which have been brought before the entry into force of this Act, shall be deemed to be timely and shall be treated in the same way as those to be applied after its entry into force." Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adoption of the amendments violates mutual coherence. The Secretariat informs us that it is not, so we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting on the proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Excuse me? Procedurally, colleague of Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u8	I would ask if an additional decision could be taken, which I will say orally. If, of course, you want to accept it, then I will post it in writing with the following content: "The competent authority shall inform the beneficiaries of the rights arising from this law in a locally appropriate manner." I think it would be appropriate for this decision to be adopted and then there will be no further obstacles to the appeal of all beneficiaries before the Constitutional Court, which I now believe was the main reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u9	Before we continue to discuss your proposal for an additional decision, I would like to ask all my colleagues and colleagues for a little more peace in the Chamber, because this is disturbing. Please, you want a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u10	Who's going to find out what a "locally appropriate way" is to implement this decision? That's the first one. Secondly, we have an official sheet, we have public relations, and I am sure that tomorrow in the media that we have fixed this law will extend the deadline. That's the first one. Second. The official sheet is the one where the amendment is officially published, and I think it teaches people again what this marriage brings, but it's kind of, I'll say, funny. I can't support a decision like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Mr Kelemina's proposal for an additional decision? Just a minute. An explanation, Comrade Kelemina? Explanation. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you. Look, Mr. Lavrinc. I don't know if you've read the Constitutional Court ruling on this. The Court there expressly stated that, in view of the population affected by this law, it would be appropriate to directly inform themselves in some appropriate way of these rights arising from these laws. Now, how do you do this, probably by simply sending to these people a notice that some of the rights under this law are derived and that, in so far as they are affected or justified, they should make themselves known or otherwise exercise their right? Now, if this is not appropriate, I am putting this proposal to a vote mainly if it is voted if not. But you could also, of course, now that you have a better proposal, correct, maybe correct this proposal of my decision, I also agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. The Vizjak wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u15	I'll also ask the government for an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u16	Presidents. [[...]] I would only replicate Mr Lavrinc in the sense that the term 'in a local way' is not new and is also known by other laws, such as the Law on the regulation of settlements and interventions to a place where the administrative authority is obliged to inform about the adoption of certain construction plans and similar owners or all interested in a local way. It is said that this term is known in law and I think you know what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u18	I then suggest that we proceed with the decision a little further, that everything, individually from door to door, be informed that this law has been passed and that we do so. It is quite common in spatial acts, and this is what people expect, and in similar cases, that is what people expect, but not, therefore, do not expect in amending laws. Otherwise, I don't know how we're going to pass the laws that we're going to pass on and give some rights to people, in a local way, to those who are going through the rights of this law. That seems kind of funny to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I ask the Government whether it wishes to give its opinion on this proposal for a decision in the light of different views? Please! Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u20	I would say this, given that 1200 applications have already been submitted after the deadline and will be dealt with without having to be re-invested, I think that most of the beneficiaries have already submitted applications. We just assume this from the situation between those who were on time and those who were on time. The law states that those already invested after the original deadline are considered to be timely. The Commission has not rejected them, which means that when the law is passed, the Commission will decide on these requests when it is published. They will remain informed of the official document or media coverage. However, it would be very difficult for the Commission to impose 'in a local way', because the Commission is only one and is in Ljubljana and I do not know where this would be done, unless only in Ljubljana or perhaps with an ad in the daily newspaper. That might still work.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina, do you insist that we define ourselves until the proposal for a decision? Excuse me? You insist. Okay. Then, if no one wants another word, we will vote on your proposal for a decision. I ask that, given that the Members do not have him on the bench, you once again speak clearly and loudly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u22	I propose an additional decision, namely: The competent authority should inform the beneficiaries of the rights resulting from the amendment of this law in a locally appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. If there is no misunderstanding about the text, then I shall put it to the vote. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[70 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision by colleague Kelemina has not been adopted. I'm closing the agenda. And I'm moving on to a new one, that's 23. Period of the day, first of all, a defensive proposal for a bookstore law. on The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, Mr President of the National Assembly! Allow me first to apologize to Minister Andrea Richter. This is at the usual Thursday meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in dealing with a package of media legislation, this is what your assembly will naturally continue in its deliberations in very short time. Allow me to start by saying a sentence or two about what librarying in Slovenian means. Very many users of libraries know this, of course, each one from his own narrow point of view, but rarely anyone knows the whole. Librarianism is an extensive, important activity. Grave data: 60 general libraries with 300 rentals across Slovenia, 625 schools with 880 rental sites, 68 higher education centres, almost 150 special institutions, cultural institutions, including companies, with a common fund of over 22 million books and copies of other materials, an annual increase of almost one million books and copies of other materials; a total of around 2,400 employees, around 10 billion of this Slovenia costs, every year they give information services to 14 million people, that is, an average of seven times every Slovenian appears, from baby to centenarian, and so on. I would conclude this part, which is not the subject of debate, by removing all the other benefits that we, as human users, have in Slovenia, are extremely important infrastructure for the cultivation of the so-called human factor and thus for the development of Slovenia. Certain international documents, ladies and gentlemen, also attach such a role to libraries. For example, I mention only two, three: article 19 of the General Declaration on Human Rights and article 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms guarantee the right to information as a fundamental human right and therefore international recommendations, including UNESCO Manifesto on Libraries [[It's a pretty old document.]] They call on the public authorities, the state authorities of the whole world, to their involvement in the development of librarianism, to support the development of librarianism, which in the modern world is becoming a core network of information hubs - but I will now use the term that is also a domestic - information society in this assembly. The current librarianship is governed by the law currently in force in 1982, with some novelties in later years. There have been major changes during this time. The social system has changed, with municipalities worth, we have a new country, a technological information revolution has emerged, which has collapsed very deeply in librarianism and, above all, quantitatively and qualitatively, only Slovenian librarianism has developed in all respects, despite, of course, always tight public financial capabilities. In the history of Slovenia librarianism began with a national awakening role, as you know, but in the present era it is becoming the basic base of entry into modern information society. The amendments mentioned above are the reason for the proposal. The explicit purpose of the bill is to give Slovenian librarianism a modern and future, the needs of the current and future work a suitable legal framework that will ensure the integrity of the library system, the stable financing of this activity the integration of librarianism into life, a democratic approach to all types of public or groups of people towards the information wealth of Slovenia and the world, and, of course, also provide the basis for modernising this system. This basis, we are firmly convinced, gives you the present proposal for a law on librarianism. From it I give only three news, because everything else is well explained in the explanations you received in writing. Librarianism is treated here as a public service with a specific mode of organisation and financing. The relationship between the financing of this activity by municipalities or local communities and the state is clearly sought, but in the substantive context, of course, the modern information components of librarying are sought, despite the suggestion that the name library should be preserved. But under this name, of course, today we have available, we see, completely different, modern information content, working methodology, organisation and resources. The bill was long-standing, with the full participation of professional and interest circles in the dialogue of the three former ministries and with the assistance of the National and University Library in Ljubljana and other library professional circles, and we claim that it has matured a healthy compromise for the final decision in these areas before the National Assembly. This also indicated the report of your Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which was 11 January this year - I dare to quote - said that the bill was a suitable basis for the procedure. On behalf of the proposer of the marriage project, I can tell you that the opinion committee has in fact drawn attention to the issues that still need to be said and dealt with. I submit that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to take these comments into account when preparing for the second hearing without problems and deviations from the professional and life-sustainability of the law, of course, provided that the honourable assembly enforces this in its decision. At the same time, since April last year, when the government has tabled a bill into the procedure of the National Assembly, of course, the discussion has continued in the professional and interest circles so that there are also some new, very healthy concerns, and I would like to define myself on behalf of the proposer in the introduction very briefly, up to two, three times. We believe that the law offers an appropriate arrangement for the payment of public functions in the Slovenian library system. As so far, most of the costs in general libraries are expected to be borne by local communities and the state is expected to cover part of the purchase of books and information technology for them. In the case of special and school institutions, however, the country is in the framework of schools and other institutions, since the libraries are mainly part of the organisation. We agree, of course, with the warnings we have come across, that there is still a need to set up a guarantee system so that the municipalities actually meet their obligations. In doing so, we are aware that the municipalities have resource problems, but we firmly believe that they also know how to select their priorities so that they never really question the co-financing of the library network. The alternative is very simple. You'd hit one of the civil bases of modern, if you want, information society. And Slovenia is certainly one of such European societies with librarianism, its help. Next thing. The public service in this area is defined by the definitions in Article 2 of the Act, as you have seen, which lists the substantive part of the public service and Article 3 states that the scope of public service is determined by what is financed from these content from public sources. The law also, of course, introduces the possibility of granting concessions, but it is in the three major branches of libraries, schools, special and general, and therefore the legislator, I apologize, the proposal's proposal that only implementation, the operational implementation of the concession should be left to the competent ministries, because it would be difficult to survive in practical life through one form. The second paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture states that nationals in the field of culture are established by law. We believe that, in the case of the national, i.e. the National and University Library, which "stands" for the whole of Slovenia in Ljubljana, the proposer respects such a standard, as we have proposed that the law should determine the status, tasks, management authority, public financing, and only the operational implementation of the acts leave the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is a much more viable option. However, the legal provisions I have mentioned give us sufficient assurance, in our opinion, that it is not a powerful nationalist of this type and it is important to deal with this easily or to affect it in its operation. The proposal fully respects and will carefully examine the comments that we have already received from the Secretariat for the legislation of your National Assembly. We believe that a wide range of dictions will have to be rectified following their guidance, but we also believe that in certain cases it may be a matter of explaining more clearly what we thought and then proving that some comment may not be fully complete. With regard to the control chapter, the applicant adheres to the principle that administrative and related professional supervision, supervision of the purpose of the use of funds and financial control within the public service, and the public service in the whole law, shall be carried out by designated competent departments and by the Court of Auditors. We don't see the need for a special inspectorate. Firstly, the inspectorate should supervise third parties, no third parties in the public network. Whoever gets the concession is already in it. And a second time. In the current law, which is still in force, the inspectorate, we know the inspection, but since 1982, we have not recorded one single case in order for the inspector to do anything here. I'd say almost, practice, don't speak for such a solution for a deal. The applicant will, of course, listen to what the National Assembly will order, but would also say that in an article regulating the heritage of material from the point of view of cultural heritage, the proposer would gladly, to the extent that the National Assembly would give such an order, urge that the term of inheritance in the literature be somewhat narrowed down and extended for two reasons: to reduce the costs associated with the protection of such material and to avoid the fact that libraries are affected by the write-off of their stocks which, due to the outdated or altered interest of the applicants, no longer have a deduction. Finally, I should like to say that, in cooperation with the experts and other departments, we are already approaching the drafting of the implementing rules and I can claim that, as requested by Minister Andreja Richter, we will be able to provide you with basic solutions to these rules, so we will be able to provide you with basic solutions in the course of the legislative process. However, we certainly expect to have by June at the latest seven such regulations or eight ready for the final work phase. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr President, I may have been a little too long. It seemed important to me in this assembly and thus to draw the attention of the Slovenian public to the extremely important subsystem that we are considering today and that we want to modernise it with the help of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Once again, I would ask all colleagues and colleagues, if they are already exchanging views, to do so in a discreet manner, as well as those who have to read the daily news to do so in a discreet way so that they do not disturb the speaker. Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sports? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u26	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When the committee dealt with this law, it went to work as if it were to build a house and start building a house on the roof, especially because, legally and normatively, this law, which essentially regulates the financing and organization of libraries, does not have the "sport" in the laws necessary to do so and which would give it the basis. First of all, the law, which is supposed to be in addition to local communities, is that the municipalities, municipalities and states have also introduced either the provinces or any other intermediate institution by the State. This is a matter of building the constitutional rights of those libraries covering the region or covering the province. On the other hand, we also laid this law without foundation because there is no national programme of culture in the Republic of Slovenia. We have found, however, that the need is so urgent that this law must be adopted. The law was also carefully and beautifully written, and there was no great dilemma here in the law itself, except for the ones I highlighted. So when you look here, I would ask you to confirm the opinion of the Committee, or the position, because the following occurs in the organisation and financing. The first thing is that there is a very clear need to divide the institution's rights and then to finance public libraries by what this law entails and by what is enshrined in other laws, including the law on the financing of local self-government, and that there will certainly be problems where the library is set up not by one but by several municipalities. For this reason, the Committee proposes in its position that, until the second reading, more thorough consideration should be given to those articles which specifically relate to the financing of several libraries covering a larger area. On the other hand, it seems to me that since there is no national programme, the library that each nation must have for its existence must be defined more clearly. Here is another hybrid, so we have a national and university library so far, and by this law, at least in the opinion of members of the committee, we are also establishing a national library at the same time, and not only that, but in this law we also define that the treaty is linked to the national library, the national library of Slovenia and the university library in Ljubljana. The Committee was of this opinion that the proposaler could somehow define this dilemma to the second reading. In particular, it did not seem appropriate to us that if we have our own language, that now the National and University Library, which is somehow defined, should be renamed the National Library of Slovenia or similar, because, if you look at it, we, what I know, are "National Assembly" or "Nationalrat", we are the National Assembly, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so also in this name, which is only beautiful in nature, the proposer will have to resolve this dilemma until the second reading. I would ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support this position, which was adopted at first reading by the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much, chairman of the board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy, Mrs Majnik. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The LDS Group supports the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, that the Law on Librarianism should be dealt with on a regular basis and that the text submitted is an appropriate basis for the preparation of the Second Treatment Act. In the introduction of the law, the applicant also referred to the law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture and the transitional provisions of this law, which go towards the adoption of a national cultural programme, which should also define minimum standards and a network of institutions, including libraries. Since the amendment to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is considered as a statutory law to regulate and define, inter alia, funding has been postponed and since the national cultural programme has not been adopted in the form announced, all the dilemmas of the proposed law on librarianism need to be thoroughly reviewed and resolved until the second reading. But the dilemma and the open questions are quite something. One of the biggest dilemmas is, of course, the way to finance. The types of libraries listed in Article 7 of the bill have very different financiers. School and higher education libraries are funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which also appears as a financier in some special libraries. The Special Libraries have very different financiers, from economic organisations to religious communities, the National Library is funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Culture and the Public Libraries of the local community, namely municipalities, and partly by the Ministry of Culture in that part which touches on the purchase of materials and investment investments and on the computer equipment of libraries. The biggest problems are in public libraries, and these problems are now not resolved by Article 18. The general educational library has so far found its place both in the law on local self-government, where one of the conditions for the establishment of the municipality is also the provision of general educational activities, as in the law on the financing of municipalities. After its establishment, however, a number of congregations have forgotten this condition and replaced it with a school library. Even more problems have been caused by the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. As long as the calculation of the public expenditure was in place and the operation was financed by the headquarters of the municipality, the problems were not so severe, as most libraries managed after two years of efforts to achieve that the municipalities outside the library headquarters had directed them to purchase materials by the State. Of course, there have also been exceptions, congregations that have not contributed to purchases since their establishment. Only their supervisory committees could report them for purposeless budgeting, which is, of course, unlikely. However, there have been major difficulties in changing the law and moving to an appropriate consumption calculation. The situation in Slovenia is really very different. Some of the municipalities have agreed to finance the activities of libraries and the purchase of materials, each municipality going on smoothly, according to the number of people in the municipality. At least the headquarters municipality, such as Ptuj, temporarily took over the financing of the activity. However, it also happened that the headquarters congregation covered only its share, so that the libraries had a significant outflow of funds for the activity. The same is true of providing funds for the purchase of materials. Most municipalities receive compensation from the state budget; it is also part of the purchases that libraries do not get, as the municipalities use it mainly for closing infrastructure investments in the integrated budget. All of this calls for a very precise definition and a distinction between powers and funding between the local community and the country. It is also necessary to set a deadline for the intervention of the State where the municipality fails to fulfil its obligations and who may initiate such a request. The dilemma is also the name of libraries. The National Library is ingrained, national in Slovenia, because it already carries this in its name, the National and University Library, the "national" is only used in jargon. In addition, general educational libraries are more public libraries than general libraries, since the title is more about how readers are able to access the library than about what materials they store and rent. The name public library also follows the English term "public", the library which is open to all. The next dilemma is also in Article 9, which speaks of basic, free services. For users, library services so far are mostly free, although most of these services cause additional costs to libraries. For example, the additional costs include all exhibitions, fairy tales and Biblereading hours, literary evenings and meetings with creators. So far, all of this has been part of the basic regular activity of libraries. It is also not appropriate to provide for the deletion of basic data on readers as this data does not affect the protection of personal data of readers. In addition, libraries have so-called active and passive members and only rare libraries in Slovenia record readers again every year. Article 25, which speaks of the central district library, will also need to be supplemented. Whether new criteria will be developed for this, or whether it will be automatic after the current category of libraries from the first to the fifth categories. Following the current dictatorship, there is a contract between the public library and the Ministry and the consent of the founder. The problem is that all libraries still do not have a well - known founder or founder, since the congregations were still unable to reach an agreement. They should consider whether the state would not take over the financing, at least temporarily, of these central regional libraries until we establish regions or landscapes. Because of all these dilemmas and all the others that are still emerging, it makes sense for us to examine the law thoroughly and prepare for a second treatment. The existing law is almost 20 years old. And the new librarians are almost ten years old. Let this, when adopted, be written in an exact manner and that individual articles do not allow for different interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much for your performance, Mrs Majnik, on behalf of the LDS delegation. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Montenegro, Ms Maria Possonec and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! The explosion of information, the need for rapid and, in particular, effective access to relevant information and the development of information technology, are an essential feature of today's time in which knowledge development and its application are a key element in innovation processes. This was highlighted years ago by our colleague, unfortunately the late director of the National and University Library Popovic. The result of general information is greater openness and there are also major social and political changes, all of which are positive and unfortunately also negative, which affect almost all areas of human life. Global and local communication networks, "on line" access to global databases, electronic conferences, e-mails, CD-ROM products, CD-ROMs and so on reduce human time, spatial and other dependencies. Personal computers, interactive information systems, tailored to the specific needs of an individual and software packages with many already built-in functions, contribute to increasing individualisation. At the same time as the timely and spatial liberation of society and the individual, to whom the Internet has also contributed, processes of increasing dependence, standardisation, extreme regulation, which condition a great degree of loss of this same identity, resulting in the strength of social and political processes that trigger a series of dilemmas, polytheisms, questions about future trends in socio-economic development and the debate on the development strategy and approaches in general. These debates were particularly awakened by discussions on the drafting of the law on librarianism and on the positioning of this law within all the sectoral ministries that it covers. Unfortunately, it also triggered a lot of black thinking about the role and position of libraries, our professions in the new world. Some even claimed that the profession was losing, some of them were winning, but I think we're getting more and more involved. Sociological, political, economic and information society studies are interesting for librarianism from this point of view, and I hope that the exemplary and patient debate will help further define and regulate this area. In view of the fact that this area is characterised by an extremely dynamic development, which is in the domain of several government departments, different and large conceptual dilemmas and serious differences have changed over the past five years in the face of those extreme radicals, that we will not need the books in the future or that they will not at all be needed, until they are left to their course. However, civilisation requires additional standardisation and I believe that the present law that we have here is an objective basis for starting the debate. The area is very heterogeneous and changes it rapidly to a rapidly evolving activity that requires extremely universal legal provisions because of this fact. Therefore, I also propose that, in those segments where these universal legal provisions are not provided for, the government's proposal also corrects them slightly. The law is characterized by the fact that some libraries have been given a lot of attention, in particular to the national library and public or general, to others much less, or just one article, such as the school libraries. Specials are very modestly defined. It is weak to see the uniformity of professional principles, principles and legality in all libraries, regardless of their nature. Surveillance, both professional and administrative, is not sufficiently clearly defined. What functions and responsibilities, to whom and in what way, the relationship of the Ministry of Culture and State Home Office within the NUK. This law does not define it clearly enough. The issue of how to finance, the network of regional libraries and the network of central regional libraries remains an open question. Some of the solutions, which are very good, were directed by my colleague Lydia Majnikov. The way in which local communities are established and responsible for the development of finance and investment in staff and other investment activities is also, unfortunately, not sufficiently clearly defined in this law. I believe that the debate will also trigger a controversial tone of some mayors, and I therefore expect a great deal of tolerance in the debate on this. The law places very little space on the institution's rights and the possibility of all instruments being implemented in the event that they are not met. The law barely provides for a method of appointing directors, their powers or public institutions, of course, their powers, discharges. The law does not emphasise the autonomy of the profession sufficiently, even in relation to universities and schools, i.e. in relation to the founder of libraries. The law regulates the functioning of public libraries, i.e. libraries financed from public funds, but how and in what way and in what circumstances it is not clear and specifically stated. Public service is defined, but not entirely. If it is intended to resolve the sub-law, I propose that this be defined precisely in the law itself or at least in the transitional provisions. It is a pity that the status of private libraries which are open to the public under certain conditions or which they intend to do so is not defined. These libraries include private schools, private school libraries, special libraries at companies, shareholders, church libraries, libraries of some monasteries, libraries of humanitarian organizations, parishes and banks. I propose that the law enforces the state library exam by defining one part of the exam in a uniform manner, the same for all candidates from all kinds of libraries. The other specifications should be defined in the second part by the competent minister by the type of library and the founder. The implementation of the State examination would significantly change the importance and have a positive impact on the enforcement of librarianism in society, enhance the reputation of the profession itself and, consequently, also on the resolution of outstanding status issues of librarian workers in all types of Slovenian libraries. I propose that the previous provisions define those acts which necessarily monitor the adoption of the law by hand, which I consider to be the most important standards and norms for individual types of libraries. I know that standards and standards for general educational or public libraries are already in place: a decree on the protection of the network of central libraries and central district libraries, such as the provisions on the protection of schools, educational institutions, museums, archives, etc.; a regulation on the acquisition of professional titles in the library profession and on progress; a law on compulsory copy; and other sub-laws. With regard to the association of general education libraries, I propose that the law simply does not define the status and leave the status open. So they themselves find the most optimal solution, following the example of the association of music schools, the association of Slovenian development and education institutions, the connection of the homes of pensioners, the association of working universities, the association of music schools and so on. I also propose proposals from the University Library of Maribor and the National University Library of Ljubljana, as well as proposals from the State Home Office and the Society of Libraries and the Union of General Education Libraries. I hope that these proposals will participate actively or will be taken into account in intergovernmental coordination and that today's debate will be as concrete and creative as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much to my colleague Montenegro, who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. On behalf of the representatives of the Hungarian National Community, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, followed by her colleague Jože Tanko, the Socialists' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Librarians and librarians are areas of great importance to nationalities. The books are the bearers of the written word in the mother tongue, helping to preserve the mother tongue, national culture, and national consciousness. Libraries in the national field have been successful in carrying out this mission until now. However, we had a lot of confusion in our previous marriage, for example, who pays the Hungarians — the country refused and the congregations did not have money. This problem is now a satisfactory solution to the bill and ensures the influence of the national community in the area of bilingual libraries. We are pleased with these solutions, but I point out that the envisaged central district library is not in the ethnic area, so it is not where nationality lives, and it is not where the law on national public libraries applies. Therefore, the desire and need of our community to keep the organisation of work the way it has been before; therefore, for the members of the nationalities living in Goričkem to continue to worry about the public library in Murski Sobota. The tasks of the central area bilingual library - I emphasise the central area bilingual library - should be carried out by the public bilingual library in Lendava, which is in bilingual territory and also has all the qualities to perform this task successfully. I would also like to draw attention to the wording in article 23 of the Act, which reads: "These libraries allow members of these communities to communicate in their language as well." There is a problem with the word "ado", so without the word "ado", only to "enable communication in their language". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. Mr Tanko will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, after which he will be given the floor by his colleague Vojko Celigoj to present the views of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I welcome everyone. The Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of a new library law because, in almost 20 years of the existing law governing this area, there have been radical changes and development in all areas, and in particular in the field of information technology. This requires the definition of new content and working methods, including monitoring of the works of libraries, and ultimately the provision of the mission of libraries. Given that these are truly important changes and solutions, we support the proposal that this law is dealt with on a regular and not expeditious basis, as it is necessary to give more opportunity to the profession, the interested public and the local environment to prepare, in due time, additions to the solutions presented to the law. These will also serve as a good basis for a high-quality political decision in the National Assembly. Since we are confident that the profession will pay sufficient attention to those areas covering the school, higher education and national level, we would like to draw particular attention to the problems which often accompany the local level. This is very important for the development of a reading culture and also for the development of an attitude towards culture in general. We estimate that it is necessary to incorporate into the law such solutions that will bring precise, permanent standards or conditions for public libraries. The proposed solution in Article 19 is not, in our view, good and does not give a clear picture of what is the objective or what is, after all, the norm. I think that the proposed solution overburdens the budgets of local communities without an adequate financial basis or compensation for appropriate consumption. The competent minister shall prescribe regulations and conditions every three years, but only for public libraries, while all other standards are not required. It would also be good for the state to set itself a goal or task and to lay down regulations for NUK or university and other libraries. We also believe that the law should allow different cultural activities to be carried out within the same legal person, as decided by the founder or founders. There are some environments in place that have already been successful in various activities within one public cultural institution, such as librarying, museum and gallery activities. Such an exclusive solution as provided for in Articles 16 and 17 will almost certainly result in the suspension or death of other activities, since in all local communities, even in those who have it, it is not possible to establish expensive and exclusively administrative infrastructure. The law should therefore allow for the implementation of the common cultural programme in weaker environments, in line with the development, opportunities and interests of further development and, of course, transparent use of resources. It would also be necessary to recalculate the necessary financial resources of local communities needed to achieve the standard and assess the period within which local communities are even able to reach them and may also provide for additional state resources to ensure this standard, which will also be set. It is an extremely sharp provision authorising the Ministry of State to provide standards in the event that they are not provided by local communities. I think that the competent ministry could implement this only in cases where local communities do not provide or provide compulsory public services or physical activities under appropriate spending means or do not fulfil the founding or co-founding obligations. In other cases, I think this is too much of an intervention in the funds that municipalities have for investment activities and also for general other obligations. We support the views of the parent committee, and at the same time we have proposed and tabled a proposal for accompanying and complementary proposals to the proposal for a law on librarianism. Mrs Veliščkova warned me that the criteria for the form, as proposed, met only the first and fourth proposals, while for the second and third and fifth proposals this should be transformed into a complementary decision. And we also suggest that, in this form, I will not give any particular reason, as this is written, to support also the views proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. And we also expect that these views and proposals will then also be adequately addressed and taken into account in future solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. I give the floor to my colleague Gojk Čeligo, and he will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members and will be followed by a colleague, Marija Ana Kisovec, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members. In the DeSUS Group, we support the need for such legislation and agree with the views and opinions of the home committee. Local libraries are the only permanent professional cultural institution in many municipalities that is abundantly attainable to the standards of older people, as well as young people who are separated from culturally richer centres. That is why we believe that the law must ensure that the role of people, these most accessible libraries, as local, school and others say, in order to make their status more specific on the one hand, on the other hand, so that they do not fall into funding problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. A colleague, Ana Marija Tisović, has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Then I no longer have any proposals to present the views of the groups of Members, nor do I have colleagues and colleagues for an unlimited debate. She'll be one, mate Bevek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr President, and all other colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I say that we support the proposed law on librarianism. We also support the regular procedure of this law. Although the law is urgently needed, the librarianship law of 1982 has already survived. I believe that the law still needs to be further processed, especially in the area of financing. The problem of funding is particularly emerging at local level, and I think we will somehow complete this by second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. There are no applications from the parliamentary groups to present their views, so I give the floor to my colleague Sam Bevk, because he has applied at a time which is possible under the rules of procedure and has the right to have an unlimited discussion. I limit everything else to five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! My intervention will be very short. On the basis of the Secretary of State's comments, I have drawn up a proposal for a complementary position on the bill that we are currently considering. In particular, I propose that the proposer examine the possibility in Article 6 of this article to refer to cultural heritage and cultural monuments in the sense that he leaves the profession to determine which material has the characteristics of the monument, as is the case with the museum and archival material in these public institutions. This change would allow this, namely, the basic proposal very broadly defines the library cultural heritage. This amendment to Article 6 would, however, allow for a more rational operation of libraries as well as a reduction in costs that would be borne by a very broad concept of cultural heritage. Of course, many of the problems that libraries would have in writing out library material, which continues to be more extensive from year to year, would also be eliminated. Nevertheless, the cultural monuments or heritage would, of course, be all archival copies of all publications that have the character of the Slovenes or are laid down as such by the regulations of the compulsory copy and, of course, notable monuments such as codes, documents and other manuscripts, as well as the book - cartographic, notable material that was produced before 1800. You have received a proposal for a complementary position on the table and I suggest you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. Anyone else want a word? Let's go in line, first of all, Comrade Viceroy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! I was kind of optimistic about the debate of all the parliamentary groups, because almost all of you, without exception, touched on the way in which the library activity was financed, and we all find that there is still a lot to be done in this area; of course, I absolutely agree with that. Colleagues and colleagues from the previous term, let us remember how much commitment we have already imposed on local communities. If I just mention, I don't know, the Children with Special Needs Act, if I mention the law - there are many of these, I don't remember all of them in a row right now. [[...]] However, we have already imposed many of these obligations on local communities, but we have not provided them with a source. Then the mayors are faced with a very difficult problem that the legal obligations must be met - the law on asylum for animals, the shelter for animals, is, for example, one of these - and then we find that there is no such means in the municipal budget. So much more difficult would be here, for example, in the area from which I come, where the six smaller municipalities were established by this national assembly; one, for example, two years ago with 500 inhabitants. And how can this small congregation of 500 people now co-finance a library some 30 miles [30 km] or even more, providing money for the salaries of librarians or librarians. The provision in the last paragraph of Article 18 is, as some of you have already identified before me, very serious. He says, "if the municipality does not provide library information activities for its inhabitants, the state will do so at its expense". I mean, show me a hero who'll be able to do this in the country - first find out that this is the case, then someone who's going to say it authoritatively, and now it's going to go from the municipal budget for library activity. Where are you gonna get it? Are you going to take an animal shelter? Are you going to take in children with limited needs? These are also obligations that we have already imposed here. So it seems to me very, very much, I would say, some unfortunate attempt at intimidation, so to speak, of local self-government, because if we do so, then we can determine exactly what the congregation must finance and if it does not do so, the state will do so. Okay, then we don't need congregations. In addition, I would say that the imposition of financial obligations is a matter of concern to me that, at the budgetary gap, which is quite large in the state budget, someone will remember and say, "other highways should make from their own resources, but if they do not, we will start building them into their own account." So I think we'll all agree that this is not the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. The word was wanted by Comrade Sušnik, followed by his colleague Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u44	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect. Most of the debaters have touched on funding, namely local community funding. I have to say from this place that there is too much doubt or any thought that - I will say - those more distant local communities need libraries. We ourselves realize that we still need them. Not just libraries, we need libraries as information centers, as the new law does. But unfortunately, I have to tell you that we can only dream about it. Our libraries, I'm talking about the environment I come from, we're still operating on those long boxes where the cards are stacked, and I'm going to add to this that these cards are simply not going to get any more and that we still want information centres. I believe, however, that the original sin of disagreement between local communities regarding the financing of public libraries is Article 20a of the Law on Local Self-Government. This congregation has passed three categories of municipalities, with two thirds remaining a bad third on that well-known 0.7 index at 0.74 and 0.78. In practice, this means from a few ten to a few hundred million more money to privileged congregations, and I will now hope to express myself. I would draw attention to the position of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which was forwarded to this assembly on 17.6.1998, where it literally states: "The sum of all coefficients is 1.00 However, as a result of an additional increase in one category of municipalities, it increases to 1.04 or 1.08. The proposed increase in the coefficients should be given to municipalities based in places where municipalities were established before the establishment of municipalities and their areas and municipalities - now please listen carefully - allowing for the smooth financing of additional public spending costs [[Headquarters of libraries, sports establishments]] . "I think that the 49th article of the Librarians Act, mentioned so often today, which deals with the obligations of municipalities, has been set out in Article 20th, where it explicitly states that for co-financing the public library, which is established somewhere - I suppose - in the seat of a municipality which existed before 1.1.1995, this funding of this library is covered by all the municipalities of the beneficiaries of the telecommunications activity according to the number of the population, without taking into account Article 20a, and requires the municipalities to fully finance the departments of these libraries by the municipalities. Until this gap is resolved, believe me, there will be no agreement in this Slovenia on the financing of the library network. I am convinced that Article 49 of the Law must be corrected in accordance with Article 20a of the Law on the Financing of Communities. Then we could probably also expect some information center in the environments that I came from, which I was talking about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Comrade Sushinik. I give my word to my colleague Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Well, it's a law that, because of the work I've been doing, I've been doing a lot of work and I'm glad that we actually have it here today and that the board's conclusions allow it to go to another reading and that a lot of the things that were open in the proposal that will open up today in the normal process are somehow cleared up. It seems reasonable to me, however, to say that it is not the whole purpose of this law to redistribute the burdens of financing library and information activities, which I fear in some way will happen in the National Assembly with this transfer of funding, such as "regional libraries" to the countries of these former home libraries, to municipalities with headquarters, branches to municipalities. This system needs to be considered as a whole and also the costs of operating redistributed according to the whole; because only as a whole it makes sense, works and provides the services that we have in Slovenia today, and which the Secretary of State described with some notable figures that would be proud of in fact in all European countries, including Scandinavian, which are a model for librarians when they set standards. I'm talking about the need to look at this system as a whole, informationally connected. Wherever in Slovenia you can borrow any material in these places, and this will be significantly easier if everyone who uses it, including this system, is financially and otherwise serviced. That's why I think this debate about large and small congregations, about - as it was said here - let me quote - "great ambiguities", in fact, a lot of evasiveness earlier. When the congregations were formed, it was one of the conditions for them to provide the services of library activity. And everyone, including the smallest ones, said that there would be no problem here and that they would finance it or that it was done. I assure you, I also participated in those discussions. When the accounts were coming, of course the experience in Slovenia is different, and I would like to point out that more than half of the municipalities and libraries that do not face such drastic problems as the bird library or municipality in the former municipality of Ptuj can be found. Therefore, it seems to me that in this case, with regard to the number of people who are, according to this network of 60 libraries covering even Slovenia, there will be a need to redistribute their burdens to the congregations on the one hand and to the country on the other. It won't work otherwise. The establishment of a new library will be significantly more expensive for everyone than the redistribution of burdens. That's my opinion. It could prove to be something else. Of course, there are dangerous discussions that all libraries must operate in the same standard and in the same way. I had naively imagined this and at first we bumped into the fact that it was a terrible reflection of the school system, where, in fact, in small schools, people with shared working hours were doing this activity. So it's worth thinking about and then making up your mind. It would be great if these libraries were connected to this system and that they would have, as suggested here, something similar to a state exam, but I would suggest that you do not always succumb to high-standard librarians, as it were; but that means that in other areas things can be complicated or impossible to realize in a very short period of time, it sounds very reasonable. She was here. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Excuse me, just one sentence, if I'm allowed. The only thing we're supposed to let go of is this inspection. I'll tell you that in any case, financial supervision has to be and works, regardless of whether it's in here. Inspection, which librarians resist, also means looking into the purchase of materials, the write-off of materials, in opening times, the availability of materials. Because my personal, laziness is that it cannot happen slowly that, say to these selected works or collected parts of Slovenian poets and writers of a particular library do not buy. It's not written anywhere, but I'm really wondering what's going on, what kind of professional choice it is, that there's not at least one copy in these 60 libraries. Next time, I'll sign up in writing, and I'll talk more about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. In addition, of course, a Member or a Member has the opportunity to find itself in a subordination which then extends its last sentence. I say we all stick to the limits that have to be applied to everything equally. A fellow Rokavec asked for a word, followed by his colleague Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. In the short term, I would like to draw attention mainly to the provisions of Article 17 of the Law on Librarianism. In fact, I come from an area where the library operates in the framework of the Education and Culture Institute and which also performs other tasks, music school and general cultural activities. I think he's doing a very good job of doing that. Therefore, I do not think it would be good for the law to explicitly stipulate that a library of more than 10,000 inhabitants should be a separate legal person, where in some way good organisation in those areas where it already works, even as part of additional activities, could in some way prevent effective and flexible activities. Therefore, I think it would make sense that, in the preparation of the law for second reading, the possibility of "may" should be given, on the basis of which the local community should decide in what form of organisation librarian activities will be the most effective way to carry out its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Comrade Partich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u50	Something I meant to say, I think my friend Joseph Školč said more familiarly - I hope it's just a coincidence that we're sitting together. Although also the case just mentioned by Mr Rokavec, I must say that I was warned in the congregation of Šmarje near Jelšah, for example. They have a cultural institution Šmarje pri Jelšah, which is in the global library and they are only P then they do not know with what is tied - some other activity, let's say ethnographic and so on - where to tie it, because only the independent has no conditions. [[...]] I am glad, for the first time, that we have remained relatively rich in the National Assembly when we speak of this law. At one early age of parliamentaryism, which I had also put through, the general public assembly was a quarter empty when we talked about cultural things. It is not surprising that this time it is a close link with funding and with the law on the financing of municipalities. And I think that the discussion in further procedures - which is why it seems good to me that the National Assembly has decided on such a procedure as this - we are clearing up these things and perhaps biscenating the financing of culture and the law on the financing of municipalities has at all been shown to be dealt with in a particular segment, not only through the field of librarianism. Slovenian librarianism is on a relatively, modest level, and we can count this activity where we talk about our national identity. You know that when the first Slovenian societies were established after 1848, these were mainly Slovenian readers. Also because it could be read there were Slovenian books and so on. That's why this kind of emotional attitude of ours is, I think, good. I certainly visit about 100 school libraries a year, if not more, because I think we have a very envious standard, but it is also true that some are very specific and that what my colleague Školč was talking about will be a matter of discussion. This is, of course, the Law on Public Libraries, not School Libraries. Part of the discussion that I have heard today, I think they would be very unfair and could also list some very positive cases where the congregations themselves are very careful about their libraries. I know that I was invited on Monday to open a new reading room in Rogaška Slatino, where I was five years ago at the opening of a new library actually built by the congregation itself. So these cases are also common, so I don't want a "one block" of who you accidentally hurt. Of course, I also have to say from my own experience in Maribor, where I was once vice-president for social activities with Rudy Mohet, where it is often part of the money that was devoted to culture and social activities, through strange channels and rebalancings, I poured into completely other, mostly communal things. I know that the money for culture in many congregations was poured out even later. From here, at least we think - we want to achieve the decentralisation of Slovenian culture and also of libraries; but we imagine mainly: there is no decentralisation if money comes from the government. Then you're depending on it, which I think is centralization. And some municipalities must nevertheless - not the way they end up as some colleagues have said the right things here; I also know that Mr Zamernik is very concerned about the cultural development of his municipality. However, those small congregations around here also had a condition for the cultural development of citizens among the conditions that they had promised to fulfill. And now all of a sudden, money would be for the laws that deal with animals, for the laws that deal with everything, and for the cultural image of the Slovenian man, they would just turn into a bureaucracy in Ljubljana. So I think that this discussion will have to be clarified - I agree with the School that a lot of burden-bearing is also a lot, not a "one block", not a "one block". I don't know if this helps, but I think it's lucky that we have some professional librarians and even those who run libraries, but I can see that they get to know each other the same way. And so, for the first time, I propose that I confirm the law that it is suitable for further discussion, and then we do not rush with it. However, if we fall for the fact that the financing of municipalities is at all a problem of balancing and covering culture, another discussion will be needed, in my opinion, and this may also mean a change to the law I am talking about. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Excuse me, I'll say one more sentence. [[...]] In the case of Maribor, I can tell you: for the first time that, of course, the municipalities that have fallen apart, only one has agreed to finance joint cultural activities; this is the first, and the second is that it is my impression that we city councilors are mainly concerned with culture in Ljubljana and the Institute in Ljubljana, rather than dealing with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Comrade Partich. I give the floor to my colleague Jerovšk, who asked him to speak with his colleague Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Now that I am listening to these debates, which are addressing the problem of financing librarianism in demographically more threatened areas, in such municipalities where they have funding problems, I have had one thought. Indeed, the fact is that you have all mentioned this several times today that today the library no longer has just that classic role in the transmission of books and the dissemination of reading culture, but that it plays an extremely important role in the dissemination of new technologies, as an information centre, as intermediaries of modern information technologies. And now, for this area, we have set up the Ministry of Information Society with a large pump and a large hall. And so I ask myself, if we are even addressing this area in the right field, it is not just an area of culture - I think that culture is in a broader sense, and the information society is also, as defined. And maybe it would be good there, but in the field of this information society and this ministry, it will be in short money as a furnace, because Telekom will be privatising and that is why he has to go from the Ministry of Transport to the special ministry. In this coalition agreement, however, you have written that the shares that people have invested in these demographically endangered areas in building a telecommunications network will not be returned to people. People might, now that is the law that is in the coalition contract, it is nailed down, but maybe people would be prepared - that is how many Slovenians are prepared for the lofty goals - to transfer these shares to the ownership shares of libraries and to provide a permanent source of funding for libraries and the dissemination of this information society, which you say is the primary objective of this coalition. And one such solution would be, we would have a permanent source of funding, and in these areas, where this funding is most at risk, the majority of these shares that could be transferred to another useful institution in order to provide a sustainable source of funding for this company. I think this is where our colleagues who work with librarianism don't mind that libraries get some kind of permanent source; because there's gonna be enough money there at that source all the time, in Telekom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. My friend, Mr. Gaspari, has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I am not a specialist in this area myself, but I have some experience in the area of financing, where all good ideas are always stopped when they need to be realized. I don't think I have any other comments about the law. The only one that is is the same as the Committee's point of view that it would be wise to drive it on a regular basis. This is not some legislation that should be adopted within a few days. What I think will remain a problem and cannot be solved by this law is a systemic basis for funding. The Law on Librarianism cannot solve a problem that is not solved in the Law on Communities and Their Financing and in the non-existent law - unfortunately still - which would be called the Law on Public Institutions. Our law on institutions is already so outside, I would say, "mode" and "useability" that it impedes normal development in the field of those public services that are not economic, but, of course, have a public character by name, meaning. Probably the same is true of institutions called libraries or what goes with the library. Therefore, an attempt in this law to find a solution to this problem, I think it will end up as it did in some other areas. I think that the Constitutional Court's decision, as adopted, is also an unfortunate attempt to regulate this area. In fact, it made things more complicated than it did because it referred to something that is not, I think it is essential in this segment; that is, whether the congregations were asked to enter into something voluntarily. It has forgotten, however, that the same Constitutional Court that no system law - or so far, has regulated the Sisak transition from the then Sisak method of funding to funding by the State. This was also done without a specific law -, I will say - with a de facto decision at some point in the conquest of the Slovenian state. I think that what I am about to say and what I think is important is, of course, to resolve the issue of relations between the State and the municipalities. What is missing is that even now, if the relationship is relatively poorly formulated by the 1994 law, the relationship between the congregations is largely lacking. Some countries in Europe, which have a similar geographical and population structure to Slovenia, are said to be large municipalities; geographically small, with a large population; small municipalities, geographically large: say, with few inhabitants - they have found, say Sweden, that there is a very interesting literature that needs to be set up at the third level between the country and those municipalities. This is a level between the municipalities themselves that offset the differences that inevitably arise in such, I will say, a situation such as - say - Sweden; and Slovenia - I must say - in this case is very similar, because of the way the new local self-government was created. Without, as they are called, urban and other municipalities creating a context of reallocation within certain segments of activity, I do not think that this problem is solved only at the central state level and purely local self-government in Slovenia. However, I think that what my colleague Školč said earlier is the essence - I will end with this - that the basic thesis that should apply in Slovenia is the decentralisation of those functions that power without major problems seriously decentralize, and those that are actually intended for an individual. This area is one so very evident, one way - and that the state creates a minimum standard, of course a standard that is appropriate to it at its level of development, so as not to enter into some Swedish standards with perkadra income, which is twice as low as Swedish. So some logic of comparability must exist. These things seem to be missing, and I'm sorry about this law, but it's not the law that's supposed to solve this. Therefore, I think that, at least with the conclusions of the National Assembly, it would be good to invite the government to finally come with a law on public institutions, where this discussion can be made very clear and I think that before we have to change the law on the financing of municipalities, otherwise we will be given a few months first solutions, then constitutional complaints and then constitutional decisions, and we will be as simple as we are now with this law on the financing of municipalities so far as it becomes gradually untransparent and in practice difficult to implement. Therefore, I think it would be important that a slightly more substantive discussion develops around funding if it is not possible to correct it by amending the articles of the law, at least by means of decisions binding on the government, that certain other legal projects which are pre-conditional for this law can be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible, namely, the Law on Public Institutions and the Law on Community Financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much, colleague Gaspari. Two other panellists applied for the floor. First a colleague of Montenegro, a colleague of Gerencher's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the actual debate has turned in such a very constructive direction. I would just like to say to my colleagues that, in fact, in all these past periods, we have had a number of constructive proposals, which we have also submitted to various institutions and ministries, but no real changes have been made. I welcome Mr Gaspari's discussion, because in fact the issue in the law on public institutions and also on the law on the financing of municipalities is an essential issue. And these are two laws that you're going to have to undergo some changes as a result. Just because we were all aware and you are also aware in the section that this article 18 will in one way be broken and the most critical and controversial. I propose to the National Assembly a proposal for a complementary position on the proposal for a law on librarianism on the position on the report of the home working body. I propose the following complementary position: The proposer should re-examine the solution of Article 18 in view of the extent of the problem of financing the functioning of public libraries, which goes beyond the sole competence of local communities, and assess the possibility of a solution such that the Minister responsible for culture should issue instructions on the conditions and modalities for the implementation of that Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Comrade Gerencher, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleague Maria Possoncheva has very, I would like to say, made it difficult for the thesis that the material for the Hungarian minority should be moved from Saturday to Lendava, but I would like to remind you of some of the things that occurred in 2000, especially the views of Dr. Silva Novjan, who is talking about this important issue. In fact, who are the providers of general education activities for minorities? It is clear that these general educational libraries, which may be in Lendava, can also be on Saturday, but the main responsibility and policy must be driven by the provincial study library. Last but not least, this library has successfully collaborated with a similar library in the Iron County of Hungary for many years - this was a very good cooperation - and it has a very rich collection of hungarianism. It is certainly good that this basic library for bilinguality is being developed in Lendava, but it would certainly not be good for all of these materials - you imagine that we are moving them to primary educational libraries - but to stay in the provincial study library. Last but not least: Hungarians live in the municipality of Lendava, the former municipality of Lendava, as well as part of the former municipality of Paradova. And those who are from the congregation will certainly want to have their general educational library in Murska Sobota. In addition, on Saturday, we are building a modern study library that will be able to continue with the work started in a quality approach so that the minority can get all that belongs to it and what is going on with it. Last but not least, an important question to which. Novaljanova also warns, is a human resources problem. The staff must be provided by the provincial study library, that is, by professional staff, and in this sense we have and there is no reason to give the impression that now the issue of material in the study library is somehow reaching out to another congregation or to move. Finally, our goal must be to have these materials in several places, but it is central to the provincial study library. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much, colleague Gerencher. My friend Skull has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u60	All I wanted to do was make a note or a replica of Mrs. Montenegro's proposal. I am afraid that this decision actually applies to all 60 libraries, and therefore it does not make sense to know that these 60 libraries used to operate in the same number of congregations. As far as I am aware, virtually all municipalities have undergone territorial changes and such a formulated proposal means that mother libraries always cover themselves with something broader than the local community. That is why it seems to me that with such a decision, especially the bill-maker, this is the government and the Ministry of Culture, we will not benefit, but we will put things on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. Anyone else want a word? I find that no, and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Librarianship Act, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law." I ask that no one disturbs the National Assembly while we vote. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I propose the conclusion that the proposal for a law on librarianism at first reading is a suitable basis for preparing a draft law for second reading, for a vote. We're voting. Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] We have adopted a proposal for a decision. In order to discuss and decide, I propose a second reading of the draft law to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The position was addressed by the mother's working body. We have complementary proposals, they are not on one list, but I believe that the National Assembly can decide on them even if no one objects. I will lead the debate and the decision-making process in such a way that we will always know very clearly which decisions we will make. Does anyone want to discuss these proposals? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why we're going to decide them in order. We will first decide on the complementary proposal, which says: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second reading of the bill, that it also lays down standards for all other types of libraries, not only for public libraries." Mr Tanko is the proposer of this proposal, complementary. We're voting on him. Presence! [[65 present.]] Please, for peace in the hall, we vote. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 10.]] Mr Tank's proposal was adopted. We are voting on Mr Tank's proposal, which is on the other side of the same document, which says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia amend the first paragraph of Article 19 of the bill by providing for specific rules." We're voting. Presence! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 25 MPs.]] The proposal received support. We are voting on the proposal of colleague Sam Bevk, which reads: "In preparing the law for the second reading, the bill should examine the solution in Article 6, which deals with cultural heritage and cultural monuments in the sense that it leaves the profession to determine which of its materials has the characteristics of the monument, as is the case with museum and archive materials in public museums and archives." We vote on these proposals. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] The proposal was adopted. We are voting on the proposal for a complementary position proposed by a colleague of Montenegro, which reads: "The proposal should re-examine the solution in Article 18, given the scope of the problem of financing and functioning of public libraries, which goes beyond the competences of local communities, and assesses the possibility of a solution so that the Minister responsible for culture can issue instructions on the conditions and modalities of implementation of the said article." I'm putting the motion to a vote. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 12.]] The proposal was adopted. We will now vote on the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in preparing a proposal for a second reading law in accordance with the following points of view, also prepare this law. You have them in the committee report. Is it clear enough about which positions are taken in this vote or do I have to read them fully? This is a seven-proposed position. Can we vote without giving them a specific indication? Yes, you can. Then we vote on the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a draft law for second reading in accordance with these following seven positions. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[67 present.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have proposals for additional conclusions. Mr Tanko proposes that we first adopt an additional decision, which reads: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to re-evaluate the necessary resources for the second reading of the law in order to achieve the required standard with a table by local communities." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will then vote on this proposal. Please! Presence! [[67 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The proposal by my colleague Tank is accepted. Also, colleague Tanko proposes an additional decision, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a second reading of the bill to determine and assess the necessary dynamics or time in which individual local communities have to reach the prescribed standard." Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting on the proposal. Presence! [[67 present.]] [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 25.]] The proposal was adopted. We have another proposal from our colleague Tank, which reads: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to allow more exclusively cultural activities within one legal person or institution." Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we vote on the proposal. Presence! [[67 present.]] [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on matters relating to the law on librarianism. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the development bank of the world of Europe - rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The bill was discussed by Hipek, I ask again, does the government's representative want a word on it? [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur or the president of the working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word on the bill of representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed blind person will not be accepted if at least one third of the Members present oppose him. I shall put the motion to the vote. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[64 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. The mother's working body proposes an amendment to Article 4, in the first paragraph, to add the text 'in business with the bank' for the word 'Slovenia'. Does the reporter of the mother's working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Anybody else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will decide on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting on him. We're picking up the presence! [[63 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We will now decide on the full text of Article 4 as well. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[64 Members and Members.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The Article is adopted in the text. We have therefore held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[64 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a vote. I'm putting the title of the law to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Would qualified candidates like to table an amendment? I guess not. Does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? [[She doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on coherence. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether compliance has been violated? It is not broken, so we can go to a full vote on the law. I fully put the bill to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the promotion of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations arising from credit which have been leased by the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of implementing programmes for the recovery and development of the Slovenian State in the framework of the Council of Europe for social development, and for the implementation of programmes for the recovery and promotion of the development of the institution, the Rapid Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I ask the government, does the bill want a word in this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Perhaps the Members and Members would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and on the amendments tabled. The Group of Members with the first-signed colleague of the Kavčič National Assembly proposes the text of the amendment to Article 2 of the Act. Does the proposer want a word? Would anyone else like a word from your colleagues? Mrs. Bitenc, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u62	Mr President, I would just like to draw the attention of the assembly to some editorial errors or imperfections in this amendment. First, it is essential that we be aware that the forecasting sentence needs to be properly understood, namely that this article should be amended to read but not complete. As for the text itself, we would only point out that in part of the text, which is reinforced, in our view, there is in fact a lack of the course of someone who is approved or credited in the Tolar equivalent of so much and so. We also believe that the text for the comma in a given meaningful link is superfluous, that is to say, which changes during the duration of the loan, so some editorial changes to the amendment may need to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you so much for those warnings, Mrs. Bitenc. I ask Mr Kavčič and the other proposers whether they agree with the proposal to amend the text. Does anyone object to the proposed editorial corrections of the secretariat? Please, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u64	I think the first correction is logical, instead of complementing it, it changes. However, as regards the exchange rate per day, it logically stems from the contract, the contract provides for a course, so I do not think that this second intervention is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u65	The applicant therefore accepts the first proposal for editing, not the second. He insists on another. Here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u67	Does the Secretariat have an opinion? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking the others if they want to discuss this. Please, my friend Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u68	I'm sorry, just one more time for everyone to read carefully, or it's exactly written, and I don't have it in front of me right now, so I'm asking. There will be no misunderstandings in the future, as we had before in this House. The conversion into tolars can be only for the amounts per day recorded in the contract, but not for any future period that we do not yet know about the future course. So that we don't have TRP and anything like it before the time we almost doctored it, what's right and what's wrong. It can only be what is expressed by contract at a certain point in foreign currency and converted at a known rate into a tolar equivalent. Any conversion into tolars of future amounts, for which we do not yet know the course, would be bad because we should go back to Parliament and have to fix the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u69	Comrade Kavčič, does this comment have any effect on the content of the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Is it necessary for me to read the amendment or do we all have it in front of us? [[That won't be necessary.]] So, do we know the text of the amendment, as proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Mr. Kavčič? [[Yeah.]] We vote on the proposed amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the other members. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I put the remaining articles to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the title of the law to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Anybody want a word or an amendment? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. I am putting to the vote a full bill. Let's find out who's here! [[67 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Action Act, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Zmaža Jelinčič. Wants a colleague, Jelinčič [[which is not in the hall]] Or is anyone else offering a word? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u70	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u71	Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u72	In view of the need for further research, this is a simple question, but it is not so simple, how will the membership of individual health professionals be regulated. Now in this area, we have only a doctor's room, which is mandatory. I am aware that it was not at the time when the law was introduced - it was introduced by a rapid procedure - and therefore, during the first and second readings and, of course, a third could be further examined and further proposed to this law. I propose that the applicants and the interested parties, together with the government, look at these issues and then at one of the future meetings we are considering this law. So I propose a procedural postponement of this point to one of the future meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u73	We will vote on this procedural proposal. I am asking the Group of Members for their views. Please, buddy Rokavec. My friend Brenčič, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Fellow Members, fellow Members. Here's the thing. When this law was included in the foreword of the current session, of course, he had a traveller, that it was high time to satisfy the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which it was necessary for the legislator to resolve the legal void in the basic law on health care, and, therefore, as Chairman of the Committee, he also felt that it was necessary that this law should somehow be brought into the procedure as soon as possible. I also agreed on this need in some way on the position and progress of dealing with this law with the Ministry of Health. The common opinion was that, irrespective of who the applicant was, it was necessary to resolve the dilemma or void imposed by the Constitutional Court’s decision on the national assembly. I don't think there's any special dilemma here. In the SLS+SKD Group, we believe that the law, as such with the amendments of the government, is entirely in the nature of the traceability imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision and it is also reasonable to resolve or adopt it as soon as possible. However, it is necessary to prepare, in due course, comprehensive changes and additions and to resolve some of the dilemmas at the time, for the basic law on health activities to be clearly flawed. The assembly system, as established in health care, is likely to require strong consideration by the Ministry and change. However, it is important that the assembly system, as may be desired from specific areas of health care, does not undermine the coherence of the healthcare system as a whole. The trends that may also be due to the transfer of this law are probably leading in this direction. I am also in favour of, after all, moving the proceedings of this law to the next meeting, but at the latest to the next, if disagreements or things are at stake. This law must be taken into account - at least that is how our parliamentary group understands - into procedure. This mandate is somehow due and all the parliamentary parties' parliamentary groups are obliged to follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court more consistently than we did in the previous term. We do not want the law or procedure for dealing with this law to be translated into one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič, for your position on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Is there any other group that would like to take a position on the proposal of colleague Anderlic to move this item to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll talk about a proposal from colleague Anderlich Yes? Please, you have the floor. You want to do it on behalf of the delegation because you can't?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u76	Don't you? Don't I have that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u77	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u78	Okay, I'll be on behalf of the delegation. Given that the candidate is our party's champion, Mr Victory Jelinčič, let me say that, despite the fact that the majority of the amendments he has tabled do not have support, I predict that I will oppose Mr Anderlič's proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u79	In this debate, the government has the right to speak if it so wishes. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u80	Dear Members and Members! The proposal of this law has, of course, caught me on a new duty and it is not difficult for me to admit that I had to take a deep look at the subject. So I can say, on my behalf, that I agree with the motion for postponement, not to withdraw this law from the parliamentary procedure. It is not simply a simple fact that it is relatively possible to meet the constitutional court's requirement that the law actually define the procedures for how to get to the new healthcare chambers, but it is some of the more important issues. The point is that this law will make it possible for us to adopt the amendments, some of which clearly aim in the right direction, in order to adopt a great precedent, to put the whole society ahead of the fact that we will put them in chambers, in mandatory chambers, in membership, in the Presidency, in synergies and in general in corporateism. This is an area that goes far beyond the Department of Health. As I have been informed, this House Act in its draft was once at a certain stage of the procedure and only after we have answered to what extent this society needs to be organised, compulsory, with membership fees, will it be very easy to respond to the extent to which we need the Chambers in health care. In principle, I would say that what we have achieved so far, including with your help, says that the European Union has chambers for those professional, professional areas where, in addition to the interest of the market, the private, the individual, they have a strong predominance or the interests of a society that wishes to regulate or direct the entire professional sphere. That's why regular clinics are for doctors, for pharmacists, for notaries, for lawyers, and so on. All we've got. Of course, the question is whether the Chambers are strictly necessary for each segment of the professions. I'd like to take this opportunity and use this performance to question you. You will decide to what extent this company will be organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u81	Mr Minister, we are not discussing the content of procedural proposals. Let us refer to the proposal in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, whether the National Assembly will transfer this point to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Since no one wants to discuss any further, I am proposing to my colleague Anderlich, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, that this point, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act, be put into consideration at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 18.]] Mr Anderlich's proposal has been adopted. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the Rail Traffic Act, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since we are in a great hurry to receive, perhaps more than the government expected, we will wait for a moment or a government representative will enter the hall. In this case, we'll ask him to have a word. There's a government representative here. I welcome him. Mr Secretary of State, you want a word with this law. Yes, you do. You have the floor and I invite you to the speaker stage. Please. But I ask everyone else for peace in the hall. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u82	Good-bye! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say for a moment why this necessary amendment of the Rail Transport Act has taken place. In the previous reference, in the last quarter of last year, the National Assembly adopted a guarantee to rent a loan of 6.2 billion to complete a new railway connection to Hungary. The Rail Transport Act sets out all the obligations of the State which owns the public railway infrastructure in respect of loans for modernisation and new construction in this area in the past period. It is precisely for this property that it is necessary to add to the list of obligations already undertaken by the State under the Rail Transport Act an obligation which the Slovenian Railways have carried out and will be used to complete this railway connection or have already spent it. In fact, this additional obligation of 6.2 billion is added only in the article of the law which mentions these obligations. This is a supplement that we have been forced to propose under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the chairman want a word? [[He does.]] Chairman of the committee, Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee considered a proposal to amend the railway law and adopted a decision to support it following a reduced procedure. The Committee also adopted the text of the Government's amendments to the review [[We've accepted three amendments.]] . On this basis, we propose to adopt legislation with amendments proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want a word.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. On behalf of the delegation? Please, Mr Yuri Malovra, on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The SLS + SKD Group will support the above-mentioned law or supplement, as the Railway Act, which was adopted in this National Assembly in 1999, has also transferred all the infrastructure to the State of Slovenia. In view of the fact that he has transferred all the infrastructure, the obligations set out in this Title have also been transferred to the State of Slovenia. In implementing the law or the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Railways, the Republic of Slovenia was then engaged as a marriage and therefore there are no valid reasons why the government as owner of the infrastructure would not now accept the obligations set out in this Title. Mr State Secretary has already said that this is primarily a road in the direction of Puconci-Hodoš, which I hope will, this month, at least attempt to take up commitments. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that this law also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Any other parliamentary groups would like to present their views? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask if this is what Members and Members want? [[Yeah.]] My fellow Vice President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, this law is virtually impossible to oppose. Thus, in the past, this area was somehow neglected, and for this reason it is certainly necessary to uphold the law. Of course, with a very bitter taste of corruption, which we have now witnessed in recent times, I am afraid that corruption hunters have spread to unfathomable dimensions in this area. When you ask for information, of course you don't get the data. We discussed this a lot in the previous term. That the basic contract of 12 billion has now grown to 18 billion tolars, the official argument is the landslide and the introduction of VAT. For slips of land I would still accept, though a little so, very difficult, because the matter is still being built in Prekmurje. It's not the Upper Savina Valley with the Macesnik beach or the Log under the Mangart. There may be designers there, but if they're good designers, I believe you've got good designers, predicting what the landslides will be. However, an excuse, an official excuse to introduce VAT No, I think it's SCT. [[...]] The SCT didn't get Trojan and, of course, this difference has to be covered. And where it'll be easier to cover than where there's a lot of money, where a billion doesn't mean much. I'm afraid so. Thank you very much. Of course, it's hard to be against, as I said before, Mr. Gaber. I'm up for this, but with the bitter taste that it's not about VAT, it's about SCT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Yes, please. Mr. Secretary of State. Please, you have the floor. Sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to call back, but I have to answer what was said. We put in this proposal of the guarantee law, the government has put in the State Assembly in its previous composition, in the previous reference, indeed complete material, concerning the reason for the increase in previously assessed and investment programmes of certain values for the construction of this railway connection. If you feel that anything is wrong here, I would suggest that this is, in fact, in accordance with the options the National Assembly has for this matter to be clarified in detail. For the sake of clarification, however, I would say that the actual contract was concluded in March 1998 with the really most favourable SCT provider, Gradis and Primorje. We have actually introduced value added tax with 1 July of this year. It is also true that this tax was not included in the contract. You are well aware that under the current legislation, the tax is the difference between the previous tax and the current 19 % tax. A specific methodology for calculating value added tax has been developed. This value added tax is charged equally in the framework of projects carried out on Slovenian railways, as well as of course projects implemented by Dars in the field of motorways. So here there are methodological and professional grounds why this VAT is the same as it is, about 14 percent if we subtract what was already included in the contract. The actual initial investment value was 18 billion tolars. In this interim period, however, as is explained in all the papers - and I would like to ask, I would not like to repeat here, because it would take too long for you - it was precisely explained how much of the funds have been contributed from the budget, 13 billion have been credited and it all came together - after memory - I am saying something in 16 billion. When it was also proven again, in previous research, geological research, however, at the beginning of particularly the entrances to the tunnel and then the galleries that had previously been to the slip of the ground were again required by the most prominent experts in this country of research and data, what, why and how it happened. Such data shall be documented by the responsible institutions. From this title came about 3 billion additional costs. Furthermore, there is an additional cost as part of the purchase of some land, which is also documented and contractually verified and, of course, this VAT, which amounts to two billion 700. In global terms, it's 6.2 billion. Given the 16 billion funds that have been provided, both from the loan 13.5 billion plus the contribution of the regular budgets over the last two, three years, this difference was 6.2 billion and so we applied for a guarantee. All documentation is available both here in the National Assembly and, of course, with the investor, who are Slovenian Railways in this case. If there is any doubt here, I would ask that we not only speak in general but also that the State Assembly, which has jurisdiction, examine this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Zamernik wants a word. If you can turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u92	Well, I thank Mr. Hangel and the President for his word. But I'd like to ask you if the matter is really that clean, if you can tell me here that with someone who's a little bit more familiar with this than I am, I'll come and look at all the documentation that's in this connection. This includes, of course, the basic contract, the situations that have been paid or will be paid, including all, indeed all the documentation available in this regard. I'm afraid I have a very bitter experience with your colleagues, like Dars. That's where I could get those beautiful documents that were sent to Parliament. But when I demanded even the accounting situations, which were the basis for the payment and the basic contract with the contractor, it was said, but you can't see that, because that's the contractor's business secret. If you can tell me that I can see all the documentation, including these last two, to look at it with people who just get to know it, of course I will gladly accept your offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary of State? Yes, you do. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I assure you that you and anyone who wants to come with you can look at the complete documentation on Slovenian Railways and if there is a need for more, if there is anything else. So there's no reason that we don't have everything you want and everything that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u95	Mr. Secretary of State picked up the glove. Mr. Viceroy, would you like another word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Diaci? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Possonec wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I cannot help but mention that there have been no subcontractors from these strong resources. They've been working since May 1999, investing their mechanisms, buying their own fuel, and so on, now they owe them 13 million. In fact, the families were destroyed, and this money is nowhere to be found. That's what I had to say before the National Assembly, because people need to be protected. They were working, and they came into this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Possonec. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is true, as the lady says, but the investor has fulfilled all the obligations. However, we have agreed, and I think, that this is how Mr President, Mr President, has also answered the question that the Slovenian Railways from the funds they still owe to the main contractor, namely the SCT, when submitting documentation to these carriers within the company, I mean, asphalt, will settle these obligations because this has not happened after the original agreement and the promise that this will be done by the main operator of the SCT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the debate the first article and the three amendments we have received. The mother's working body proposes the three amendments you received in the bench exam. First of all, I suggest we discuss, if anyone wants, all three together. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll decide each one individually. The mother's working body proposes to Article 1 that the text of Article 1 be replaced by the following: 'In the third paragraph of Article 34 of the Rail Transport Act, the words 'and the sixth' shall be added after 'and the previous'. I shall put that amendment to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The mother's working body proposes in the second amendment that the words "and sixth" be added after the words "mentioned in the first" in the fourth paragraph of Article 34. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The mother labour body also proposes in the third amendment that a new sixth paragraph be added after the fifth paragraph of Article 34, which reads as follows: "The State will assume in 2001 the debts of the public undertaking Slovenske železnice, d.d., from loans leased under the law supplementing the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian railways, d.d., from loans hired to finance the construction of the railway in the direction of Puconci-Hodos-State border." I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 1 in its entirety. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the text of Article 1 is set. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We then decide on Article 2 by vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The text of Article 2 is set. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We move to a vote on the title of the law. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] That's how the title of the law was adopted. I ask qualified candidates if they wish to table an amendment in the third reading. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then voted on the whole law. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[65 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I suggest that we close the work in this place for the morning part of the session. I propose that the State Assembly meet again and continue the meeting at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. KVIAZ was in session at 10 a.m. Since this item is expected to be on the agenda this afternoon, please, if this is not already done, make the necessary decisions for the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u100	Those of you in your rooms who are not present at the hall, I invite you to join us. I would like to say that the display shows that there are 25 Members present in the Chamber, which, of course, unfortunately, is not the case. Please gather in the hall and let those of us who are in the hall put our cards in the voting apparatus. As always, we will also begin the continuation of this meeting exactly. I invite Members who are not present and have their voting cards in the voting facilities to avoid misunderstandings or criticisms by colleagues, to come to the hall or to remove the card or, what is even more exciting, to occupy their seats. There are 60 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. Whether we are so kind, first of all, that we are not wrong about the debate between the sitting that is taking place, and secondly, if we can make such a collegiate and a bit of fun on the next bench, or if all our colleagues, after leaving the meeting at one, may have taken the cards, because otherwise I do not see whether this presence is from this place. Good. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. They are further excused for the continuation of today's meeting: Leopold Grošelj, Janko Weber and Villa Trofenik. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Defence of Proposals for Decisions on the Establishment of Working Bodies of the National Assembly. I note that we have prepared three proposals for resolutions, namely the establishment of a commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions, a decree establishing the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee and a motion for a decree amending the decision establishing a commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. I propose that the National Assembly discuss the proposals of all three decisions and we vote on each. I ask the rapporteur of the home working body, Mr. Skolcz, does he want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has no comments. They want the word of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do Members and Members wish to speak? Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. It is not related to the 28th point, that is, to the debate on the proposed decisions we are currently meeting with, but I would like to say that the members of the Slovenian National Party disagree with the way in which the Commission works. [[Cuaza]] and the way this national council works. The National Assembly met at one of its first meetings - I think that the 2nd continuation of the 1st session - also met with the proposal to establish two more working bodies, which probably do not tange you all because they are not politically oriented. This is the Commission on Local Self-Government and the Commission on Disability Issues or Issues. On the one hand, on the other hand, I would like to ask that the National Assembly, as a representative body of all the people, also meet these two working bodies, which the same National Assembly has already given them a passport to deal with on the labour force, i.e. in Kviaz. However, so far, under the chairmanship of the previous President, this has not happened; it is on the agenda, but with a view to playing or ignoring these two important issues in our society, you do not want to and do not want to meet. So once again I appeal to all of you, let's try and form these two working bodies as soon as possible. I would also ask if I could have your opinion on these two working bodies, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u102	Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'd like to make an explanation on behalf of the commission. These were two proposals that did not have all the elements prepared for decision-making. At the Kwiaz meeting we agreed - at least that's what I understood - with Mr Pecett, we agreed to include this in the first session of the Commission. The first next meeting may be held as soon as this meeting is concluded. Therefore, his protest concerning this working body, which so far has not stalled with any matter that has come to a decision at the time of my presidency, will only come to a decision. That's why I don't think the protest, at least in this part, is in place. However, if this is related to the fact that there was no agreement at the beginning on these working bodies, I do not think that this concerns the committee that I am leading and in which Members of all parliamentary groups are properly involved, but touching those who have been preparing an agreement that the working bodies do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much, colleague Scholch, president of Quiaza. I have nothing to add to President Kviaz's opinion and position, given your request for my personal position. I have nothing to add, given the explanation just given by President Quiaz. My friend Patche wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u105	I'm afraid we got the wrong idea, Mr. Skull. I tried to be very precise in my speech and also said that the matter was adopted in this national assembly, that is, at the beginning of our work, and certainly not at the moment you took office as chairman of the Commission of Kviaz. However, I would also like to point out, in these two working bodies, that the local self-government commission, which we have stated several times today in our consideration, that it is essential, or matters of local importance, that they should be dealt with in their own committee and that the disability committee, which is also important, is that we also deal with these commissions and not only postpone them from the meeting to the meeting. So far, history or our work in Kwiaz and in this National Assembly has shown us to put these two questions on the sidelines and to put ahead of us those things that are politically and not life - related to life and work in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I'm guessing not and please, Comrade Barovic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u107	Just a question or to resolve ambiguity. Mr President, you just said that we have three decrees under point 28. As far as I can see in the material we received, we have two decrees, and the third one you mentioned carries point 31. But if I'm wrong, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you. By accident. It explained that it was wrong under point 31. I am wrong, Mr Barovic, point 31, should be point 28. I propose that we decide on each proposal for a decision individually. First, on the proposal for a decree establishing a commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. Presence! [[77 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The decree has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree establishing the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee. We're voting. Presence! [[77 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The motion for a decision shall be adopted. We decide on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] The decree has been adopted. I interrupt this item until it meets again in the session of Kviaz. We are moving on to the continuation of the agenda items, namely the decision on election, the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decree was submitted to the assembly by the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission for its consideration and adoption. The Commission proposes to the Assembly that we appoint Mrs Jožica Velišček as Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thanks again for saying that. I am very sorry, even in view of the break we had for lunch, because we were running out of time at the consultation of the Slovenian National Party, I would ask for 30 minutes to consult the Group of Members on the basis of Article 72(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u110	Colleague School, probably as president of Kviaza, wants a word, then I'll give this one to please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I am only asking the President and the SNS Members whether it is possible to continue the election and appointment committee in these 30 minutes so that we do not wait until tomorrow at nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u112	Is it possible, Comrade Peca? You'll be proposing a break in an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u113	We can call it in. I'd like you, the president, to set up a room for us, and we'll meet in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u114	Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u115	It also takes time for the LDS Group to decide on this agenda item. In this break, Members of the LDS cannot come to Kviaz. When we're done with the consultation, you can set a new break and we'll go to Kviaz then.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u116	I'm asking if it's possible to agree to resume the session in, say, two hours. During this time, both consultation and Quiaz can do their job. My proposal is, who wants a word about the agriculture committee? [[...]] Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u117	It's got something to do with it, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u118	Please, if you'll stand up. We will organize the work so that it will be for all good. Please get up and talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the leadership of the National Assembly that, given that we see that the agenda points are moving towards the end and that we are obviously left with only the veterinary law, that we may try to determine whether the assembly will continue its work tomorrow or if it does not continue its work, because all our work depends on it within the parliamentary group and, of course, then also on the agricultural committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u120	My proposal is that we now order a two-hour recess to meet all the working bodies that can today carry out agenda items, to continue in two hours and to conclude the meeting today. The National Assembly wouldn't be sitting tomorrow. That's my suggestion. So we'd continue at 4:45. During this time, they may be dedicated to the groups of Members, at which time the Elections and Appointments Commission may meet. If necessary, arranged for the Committee on Agriculture, including the Committee on Agriculture. The National Assembly will continue its meeting at 4:45 p.m. and will conclude it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u121	I invite MPs to the hall, especially those who have left their cards in the voting machine, so they tell us that they are present, although unfortunately we miss them. I would like to point out that, given the cards we have put in the voting devices, we are final, but of course this is not the case. Colleagues and colleagues have forgotten the cards in the voting facilities. Of course, it is possible for us to discuss at the college the possibility that, after the end of each suspended meeting, one of the experts in the National Assembly would withdraw the automatic cards from the device, but of course we need the agreement of all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, because this is an intervention in the vote card, which is absolutely in the Member's autonomy. We do not yet have such an agreement, but it would make sense, so I would ask the leaders of the groups of Members if they could look at their colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing our session. We're picking up the presence in the hall! [[46 Members and Members.]] I find that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Mr Peče asked for a break, which was extended to bring together two parent work committees, Kviaz and the Committee on Agriculture at the same time. For both of us, after a two-hour break, we have questions on our hands. Today the National Assembly will certainly complete its work accordingly. Since he doesn't want a word from Comrade Pec, do you want to explain your point of view? [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask Members and Members whether anyone else would like a word on the motion for a decision on the appointment of a secretary, pardon, Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I guess not. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u122	I have a procedural proposal to postpone the decision on this point for a reason which is particularly important for the work of the National Assembly in advance. We have found that there is a need to make a difference in the organisation of the work in the future, and because at that time we have not been able to obtain or agree with the leadership of the National Assembly, how we would make the organisation of the National Assembly effective in order to ensure the proper conditions for the work of the National Assembly, that the services and all the technical "sports" required for the State Assembly to work effectively so that we can make this organization check with the candidate or with anyone else, or that it is feasible in such a way; if not, of course, our definition will only take place one way or another when we come to it. The proposal is well-intentioned, the proposal is aimed at eliminating certain illogicalities, some problems that arise, especially at the beginning of the mandates, and even in this national assembly, are and we have nothing against a concrete proposal because of the name or otherwise, but because of the things we want to examine ourselves through an agreement in the College of the National Assembly and, of course, also with other groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. You heard my colleague Anderlich's proposal. Does any of the members of the group want a word on the proposal to postpone the decision? Can I then be the proposer of my opinion? As a proposaler, I have tried, to the best of my ability, to meet all those who wanted to take the time to make a decision, to consult, to propose, to criticize, and therefore we are only deciding on this issue at this meeting, otherwise we could, in accordance with my proposal at the previous meeting. I believe that it has been sufficient time for the Group of Members, in accordance with the candidate's willingness to do so, to consult it. I have further hoped that this time will eliminate the different aspects of competence, the questions of the organisation and all the things that relate to this important decision. The Secretary-General or the Secretary-General shall be a function of the Assembly, not of the President. It is therefore only my duty as a motioner to try to resolve all open questions that would force someone to vote against the candidate. I think it would be great if we had a candidate or a candidate who would enjoy full confidence. I see that this proposal is not the case. However, I think it would be useful to carry out this vote today. Of course, by a decision, you will say by vote what you think of the proposal from colleague Anderlič. We vote on the proposal to move the item to one of the next meetings. I'm sorry. Vote error. We're re-voting. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] We note that this decision has been transferred to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the secretary of the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation and legal matters. The proposal for a decree was submitted to the assembly by the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission for its consideration and adoption. The Commission proposes to the Assembly that Mrs Tina Bitenc Pengov be appointed Secretary of the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Law and Legal Affairs. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. [[No one wants to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and put to the vote a motion for a decree appointing Mrs Tina Bitenc Pengov as Secretary of the Secretariat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Law and Legal Affairs. We're voting! Presence! [[73 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the National Assembly has appointed the Secretary of the Secretariat of the National Assembly after a few years in the U.S., and I wish Mrs Tina Bitenc to carry out this function in accordance with our expectations. Congratulations. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. You have received the proposals of the Judicial Council and the opinion of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. Proposal by the Council of Justice on the election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election to serve as a judge at the District Court in Maribor, four District Judges at the District Court in Domžal, Vrhnika and Ljubljana, two Judges for Offences in the Judge for Ptuj and Slovenj Gradec and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I propose to the National Assembly that we discuss all the proposals together. Does anyone want a word, a letter, and a letter? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. In my decision I propose a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Danice Zajc Kohek to the court seat of the District Court at the Maribor District Court. Let's find out who's here! [[74 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Kristina Petrič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lidija Ravbar Šinkovec to the District Court in the District Court of Vrhnika. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Deja Kozjek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Tanja Lombar Jenko to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. Let's find out who's here! [[77 present.]] [[54 members voted in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Nataša Vidovic to the judge's seat for offences before the Judge for the offences of Ptuj. We're picking up the presence! [[76 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ana Hudolist to the Court of Justice for offences before the Judge for the offences of Slovenia Gradec. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[76 Members and Members.]] [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. And finally. I am voting on the motion for a decree appointing Mrs. Marija Lepša Dolčar to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[75 Members and Members.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will decide on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the legislative secretariat want a word? Neither do I. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Yeah.]] My friend Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! This is also a case where some role of this supervisory council is changing, a very important institution that converts a lot of money. During the previous term of office, Parliament appointed a number of members to this supervisory board of Darsa, and this number was appointed by reference to the representation of parliamentary groups in the national assembly. On this basis and following this key, the Social Democratic Party, like then the third largest parliamentary party, had one member in this supervisory council. This member then became a Member, so because of his incompatibilities he now ceased his mandate, there was a replacement, but the majority here of the government coalition prevented this member of the opposition or a member appointed and proposed by the opposition in the supervisory council from being replaced by another member proposed by the opposition, but is now a proposed member of the coalition party. This means that in this body there will also be practical control over public funds by those who also perform managerial functions in this society or at least most of them, and this is also a reduction in these standards, which we have already reached in the previous mandate. Kviaz voted, of course, the proposal is legal, but this is a reduction of democratic standards that we have already established in this national assembly in the previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like to present their views? Yes, Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u126	Madam candidate, Matejo Duhovnik has been proposed by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Mrs Mateja Duhovnik was already a member of the Supervisory Board and was a successful member of the Supervisory Board at that time and was later replaced for reasons of inadequate political composition. Therefore, Mr Janša's warnings are completely incorrect. And I am firmly convinced that the warmonger will be able to exercise full quality control and operate again normally in this supervisory world with his cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the floor. First, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please, colleague Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regardless of the quality of the proposed person, Nova Slovenija will vote against it because we believe that we must apply the principle already adopted by this National Assembly in its previous composition. Surveillance is a serious matter, because we have to separate it from political definitions, and as much transparency as possible, it is better for our common good. We will therefore vote against this. Nevertheless, this does not mean any assessment of the quality of the proposed person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? Then I will give my word to my colleague Janša, who is acting as a Member. Comrade Janš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. That it did not seem as if the profession had prevailed here and that the ruling coalition had chosen, let's say, more candidates, someone who had been proposed by the ruling coalition, but had these better professional qualities. I don't know, I don't know, I can totally do it, and I also have all the professional qualifications for it, but this is not the issue. And even if this is the issue, our proposal was Bogomir Špiletic, certainly one - I think you all know him - one of the few people who knows about supervision in this country and has performed such or similar functions for many years, and this is very successful. But that's not what this is about. The point is that in this composition of Darsa's supervisory board, which is a national institution, the opposition has no representative. Since he partially appoints the supervisory council of the government, there is already as much structure as it is government. And now, on the parliamentary side, it is such that there is none of the representatives of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their position? I'm guessing there's no one. I conclude the debate and make a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Let's vote. Presence! [[76 present.]] [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes this point of the day. We're moving on to break 28. Agenda item - Defence of Proposals for Decisions on the Establishment of Working Bodies of the National Assembly. During the break, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and the Assembly proposed to consider further: a motion for a decree on the election of the Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; a motion for a decree on the election of the Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly and of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; and a motion for a decision on the election of the Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the status of associate partner to the Assembly of the Western European Union. You've received the motions for decrees on the bench. We're moving on to consideration and decision-making. In this regard, I propose that we discuss all the proposals for decisions together and then vote on each one individually. Anybody want a word? If he doesn't want to, I'd like to ask the rapporteur. No, he doesn't want a word either. Secretariat? He doesn't have a point of view. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Before giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that, taking into account the current practice of handling, amendments to proposals can only be tabled at those points of decision setting out the powers and tasks of the individual working body. Any proposals for a change in the composition of the working bodies need to be coordinated in advance at the Kviaz meeting. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the election of a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We vote on the motion for a decision on the election of the delegation. Presence! [[76 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. In deciding, I propose a decree on the election of the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We are voting on the motion for a decree. Presence! [[76 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Finally, we decide on the proposal for a decree on the election of a delegation of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the status of an associate partner to the assembly of the Western European Union. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have appointed our colleagues and colleagues with our decisions. I congratulate everyone on our common name and wish them, especially in the parliamentary assemblies, much success. I note that the 9th item of the agenda remains unfinished, this is a proposal for a veterinary law. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I propose that this item be postponed to the third meeting of the Assembly, which will begin on 20 February of this year. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this proposal may be presented by the groups of Members. The debate of Members is not possible. Do the leaders of the parliamentary groups or representatives want a word? I guess not. We vote on the proposed decision. Let's find out who's here! [[76 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the 2nd regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much!
