ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	I ask Members and Members to come to the main hall of the National Assembly to begin with the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. It's a few minutes past 10:00, so I suggest we stick to our decision to start the sessions precisely. I ask everyone to take their seats and move to the 2nd item of the agenda, this is at the request of the Maribor District Court concerning the indictment filed against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Yesterday, after four hours, we completed the 1st item, questions and initiatives of Members and Members. Today, we will proceed with Point 2. Before this, I should like to inform you that our colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend the meetings today due to restraint: Aurelio Juri, Anton Delak, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Dr. Miha Brejc, Alojz Sok for the morning part of the session, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, colleague Yuri Malovrev for the beginning of the meeting and colleague Dušan Vukko. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. I invite you to put your cards in the voting device. I think there's more of us in the hall. We will wait a few minutes for other colleagues and colleagues to join us. I hope we're all still sticking to the agreement that we're starting the meetings right. If the chairman or the president waits for sufficient votes to begin at the traffic light, then we will be slaves of old practice to wait for the laters. But I don't think that's good, either because of order in the part of the house or because of those who come in time. So I will now propose that we rediscover our presence and that we are very persistent about the exact start of the meetings. Please insert the voting cards into the voting apparatus and if you report your presence. The National Assembly is concluded and 47 colleagues and colleagues are present. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia may also decide to continue the meeting I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the demands of the District Court in Maribor in connection with the filed indictment of the Zoper Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. An application for an indictment brought against a Member of the National Assembly, Comrade Zveg Jelinčič, was submitted to the assembly by a district court in Maribor. The request was addressed by a mandate-immunity committee which informed the assembly in writing. Nevertheless, the rapporteur would like a word? [[He does.]] Please, my friend Peca. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Your Honor! The mandate-immunity committee, as the parent working body for the case in question, met with the Court's request at its previous meeting. The basic principle of the functioning of our Commission on the basis of legal acts defining this and similar case in the framework of the National Assembly and Slovenian legislation speaks of the fact that neither the Commission nor the National Assembly are confronted with the content of the indictment itself, but are only defined until the indictment or the application for immunity. That was also our basic motto. So let us face the basic question of whether our fellow Member is granted immunity and thus, for the duration of this mandate, allowing him to participate uninterruptedly in our meetings of the National Assembly, which is also the fundamental right and duty of each Member. At the time of the vote of the draft decision, the Commission decided to award, with an undecided result or no decision to award it to the Commission, in a ratio of 2:2. And I propose to all Members and Members of this National Assembly to grant immunity to our fellow Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	You need to speak on behalf of the commission, I must warn you. Your opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Then I apologize. My mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 38(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the establishment or withdrawal of parliamentary immunity without discussion and without explanation of the votes cast. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving to a decision on the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22(2) of the Law on Members concerning the request of the Maribor District Court, the Criminal Section, concerning the indictment brought against the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Yelinčič, for the offence of assisting in the attempted murder under Article 64(1) of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Article 24 and 19 of the SFRJ Criminal Code and Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, does not recognise the immunity of Members of the National Assembly of Slovenia, Mr Zmaj Jelinčič and allow the continuation of the criminal procedure. Let's vote! There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 50 of whom voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the withdrawal of the law on property rights and other real rights, first defence, from the legal procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proposer of that bill by letter of 20.7.2001, informed the assembly that the draft law on property and other real rights had been withdrawn from the legislative procedure, the first being [[EPA 11-32]] . Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Please. I ask the National Assembly to allow all speakers peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The only reason for the withdrawal of this bill is that the government has already tabled a new proposal, namely a real law code that will fully regulate the field of real law, which has also been the subject of the previous law since 1996. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do they wish to clarify the views of the Group of Members? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Neither does anyone want to debate, so I am concluding this debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposed law on property and other real rights from the legislative process. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 56 of whom voted in favour, one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw that law from the legislative procedure has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We should now move to the 4th item of the agenda, but I am informed that the competent committee has not yet concluded a discussion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on public finances. Is that right, President? [[Here.]] In this case, we'll skip this point and move on to 5. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Tax Service Act, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the representative of the government, does he want a word? Between you and me, I don't see a government representative. We will only wait for a short time, or we will continue the debate without a government representative, although I think it would be right for the government to be present at this point. I ask the National Assembly to understand that we will be waiting for a representative of the government to join us for a short time. The National Assembly may, of course, continue the debate without a government representative. If anyone objects, I will order a recess and wait for the government representative to join us. I propose that we listen to the report of the Committee on Finance, the views of the parliamentary groups and then decide whether to continue the discussion and decision-making it is necessary to wait for a government representative to be present. Thank you so much for that understanding. I therefore invite the president or the representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to present the opinion of the Committee. Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. This proposal for a law submitted by the Government for discussion and adoption for the purpose of ensuring smooth, correct and reliable payment operations in the paying agency until its transfer to the banks, as well as other tasks relating to the termination of the Agency's operations, has been reviewed and supported by the proposal for the adoption of the law in a rapid manner. At the same time, he paid the highest attention to the following amendment, namely to the amendment, which speaks of the tax administration’s dosage, collection and recovery of the mandatory assembly contribution or membership from the mandatory members, namely the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture and Forestry. The mutual relations shall be determined by the individual chamber and the tax administration by contract. This amendment proposal has been extensively discussed by the Committee and, accordingly, I propose to the assembly that it support the amendment of the law together with this amendment to the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Pucko, for this report. I'm asking the representative of the secretariat if he wants a word. Please, Mrs. Beatenchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Committee, we would like to point out only one point, namely that the whole concept of the possibility of transferring, dosing and recovery of contributions to other entities, in general, is now based on an optional basis. This amendment introduces an obligation, which is otherwise served by a contract, so that it is likely that some compensation for these works and obligations of Durs will be made and certain other modalities will be established. In fact, from this point of view, this amendment in part departs from the concept which has so far been optional. It is necessary to know that, under their basic laws, the Chambers have the opportunity to collect themselves, if they so choose, and to entrust this to Durs if an agreement is reached. Thus, only from the point of view of the secretariat have we warned that this amendment is, of course, aimed at obligativity. After such an amendment, in fact, the chambers themselves, we understand, could no longer carry out these activities if they wanted to. This aspect should therefore be highlighted in the debate, in particular by government representatives, who are unfortunately not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Beatenchev. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Which group would like to present the position of the bill to amend the tax service law? None of the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. No one shall also apply for the debate. I therefore conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We have an amendment for the new A1 article. It's an amendment to the board. Does the chairman of the committee want to explain the amendment? Please, buddy Pucka. But I ask everyone else not to disturb the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To what I said earlier, I might add two or three more sentences. All three of the chambers listed in this amendment have in the past had certain contracts on the collection of membership or the contribution of the chamber. In the meantime, there has been a decision by the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the tax administration says that it does not object to such a amendment or amendment, because in this case it would have a legal basis to conclude the relevant contracts with the Chamber referred to in this amendment. From this point of view, the most questions raised at the Committee's own meeting in this regard are how the collection of memberships for other chambers established in the public interest will be regulated. That is why it is right, in my opinion, that the assembly decides, because this is the only thing that can then be merodeous. If it decides or supports the committee, this will be accepted, otherwise the collection of membership will be regulated in the manner that it will be agreed upon by the individual or in an appropriate manner by each chamber itself. In this regard, I will also absolutely agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a new A1 Article. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting! I'm asking for peace in the hall! There were 51 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. 28 were in and 10 were in. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the new Article A1 has been adopted. I'm putting in Article 1. No additions were made. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and put Article 1 to the vote. Let's vote! There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. 37 accepted the proposal, 2 rejected it. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. I ask, does anyone want to discuss Article 2? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and we vote on Article 2. Let's vote! There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 43 supported them, 3 opposed him. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. That is why we can go to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote! There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present. 55 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] That's how we adopted the title of the law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that one amendment was adopted to the draft law in the second reading. Does the qualified proposer wish to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I propose that we discuss the bill in its entirety. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 46 supported the proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to 6. Period of the day, that's the third defensively proposed bill on preventing money laundering. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does the president want a word? Comrade Pucka, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Actually, I did. I raised my hand a little bit more procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Since there are three points following each other or two, three which are so important that the National Assembly cannot work without the presence of government representatives, I suggest we skip them. These are points 6, 7 and 8, which is also not ready. You as chairman can decide, but I don't think that's the way it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	I probably agree, like most colleagues, that the government must be in the process of dealing with the laws, especially if it is a proponent of these laws. I will propose that we set aside a 10-minute recess and that the government representatives come to the House of Representatives. Ten minutes' rest. We continue for 20 minutes until 11:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, whether you are so kind and look at your colleagues on the left and right, and in those who are not present, you take the cards out of the voting devices so that you can figure out the contiguousness and you can continue. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I'm asking everyone to take your seats. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I'm going to rediscover the presence. 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may proceed. Before I go any further, I'd like to say the following. The National Assembly shall, by understanding the acceptance of an apology or clarification by governments for participating in Parliament's work, when they consider that the reasons for this are justified. When I think, and this is the case that there are no such excused reasons, we will not accept that. I think that at the beginning of this mandate, and it is right for both institutions of power, government and parliament to show mutual respect. To ensure that the work is not interrupted, please representatives of the government are present at the agenda items. I am particularly saying this because, on a proposal from the Government, this item, which is now on the agenda, we have placed it as a priority on the agenda and even put it before the package of European legislation. We continue by inviting the Chairman of the Finance Committee to give an opening statement. A representative of the government, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. First of all, I must apologize on behalf of the government or the Ministry of Finance for the fact that this situation has occurred, because some of our colleagues, state secretaries, have been at other meetings or have been held, one of the co-workers who was in fact authorized to perform in Parliament has become sick and is in fact in the hospital. We have now organized ourselves so that we will now pass. Since this is about the law on the prevention of money laundering for two amendments, I would first refer to the introduction of the amendment proposed by the government. This is the amendment to Article 38, where we essentially want to collect the data that banks and others need to collect with the law of the designated institution when larger transactions are carried out, so that, of course, the parties will then indicate some of their personal data, which banks and others are then obliged to provide to the Office by law to withdraw the word "permanent" when collecting data on residence from the current law. It is clear from practice and we also have such cases, which is why we propose that, of course, one is permanent residences, on the basis of which certain analyses are then carried out in the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the other are temporary residences, which are often used by some persons in essence as their actual place of residence. In order not to allow data collection and further analysis to be carried out by the Office, in fact, it would be impossible for it to carry out certain analyses and collect this information, we propose that the word “permanent” should therefore be deleted at the place of residence, meaning that banks may, without being able to do so, but that banks and other authorised institutions must require data from the party on residences. Seems permanent and temporary if such a client has them. This is with regard to the proposed amendment proposed by the Government under Article 38. With regard to the proposed amendment proposed by the Monetary Policy and Finance Committee, this is a new fourth paragraph in Article 7, I can say that the Government agrees with the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Does the Chairman of the Finance Committee want a word? Please, Comrade Pucka, Chairman of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. The Committee considered that proposal and supported it in its third reading. At the same time, he also supported the government's only amendment to Article 38 and drafted its amendment, which has already been discussed by the government's representative, and this government also supports. We propose to the assembly that you, together with the proposed amendments, support the law and accept it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Any of the members of the Group would like to present their views? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do you want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members or as a Member? On behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and Government! On behalf of our New Slovenia Party, I will say that we will support the law with a reserve. This is because we feel that there are not enough clear rules in this law to determine how this office should work more effectively. For the last time in the debate, we have pointed out that there are a number of charges, but these charges do not come to a conclusion. I would like to know if it is possible to say whether any progress has been made since the last debate. It also seems to me, as I mentioned last time, that some of the penalties are far too small, because with this inflation and everything, I think those who should be punished get "benefy [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] It is said that the law gives them the opportunity to gain by minor penalties. [[..]] It also seems to me that some of the procedures in this law should be defined much more precisely, so that things run faster than they do today. However, I think that the provisions relating to data collection and so on are good. But it's stuck somewhere. I don't know if he's stuck at the office or stuck with the police because success isn't what it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. You presented the position of the New Slovenia Group. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. No one checked in. Please, Dr. Bayuk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Bernick has just asked questions, but what is a real repetition of what our concerns were at second reading. I would like to know if the government could report to us in what sense these concerns and comments have taken note, and if we could answer Dr. Bernick’s question before the final decision comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. Do any other Members want a word? Please, mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Even today, I would simply repeat my position a few months ago when we were married in the first and then in the second treatment. I am primarily talking about worrying about some epilogue of all these matters related to the prevention of money laundering. I believe that this is not merely the task of a specific ministry and of this legislative body. In particular, it is the task of a complete state regime to carry out and bring in some synergy and harmony certain extremely unacceptable cases involving money laundering, including one final epilogue, a judicial epilogue. I was particularly concerned about the information I received from the office. This is the fact that no criminal case in prevention procedures is legally binding, from the start of enforcement to today. I believe that this suggests the seriousness of some unrelated operation of institutions in our country. We can also adopt such a quality law here, if there is no epilogue and some result, it is difficult to talk about the performance and goodness of the system and, of course, also the law. That is why I appeal here both to government representatives and to the representatives of the Office and, of course, the representatives of the judiciary to do something about this related, coordinated and, of course, complementary activities to get these matters to a desired objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Anyone else would like a word before I conclude the debate or invite government representatives to respond to the questions raised? No more than Members and Members? Who's going to answer? Secretary of State, please. Mr. Concan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I am grateful for this issue and for this express concern, and I am pleased to find that a number of coordination meetings have been held at the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Justice, since these issues were also raised in the National Assembly. I myself have attended these meetings, especially because, above all, the policy of offences in our country is quite sufficient, in a sense, I would say, ineffective. Why? We know of major delays in the courts, especially in the criminal courts. We know that in a certain section of the Offences Act, priority has been given to dealing mainly with road safety offences. In this respect, we have already taken the initiative of the Ministry of Justice from the Ministry of Finance, and then we have had these coordination meetings to change these priorities in some sense. However, not to try to set priorities in such a legal way, but to provide all the resources, personnel and technical resources in the judiciary, especially in the courts, in order to ensure that the offences are dealt with. There's something very, I'd say frantical. What a large number of certain offences are obsolete because certain other offences are being resolved, as I said above all in the area of road safety. We have discussed the data that approximately 94% of all customs offences are obsolete within a two-year limitation period. More than 60% of tax violations. Something similar is happening in the area of money laundering prevention offences. This is a new area and, of course, many of these cases are still not in the hands of offenders. In the last of these coordinations, we have agreed to prepare, together with the justice of the novel offence laws. A new law on criminal proceedings is being prepared. For, see, the spring debate and the adoption of the novels of the Law on Economic Companies have also put forward interesting dilemmas, which unfortunately we have not yet understood in time and also proposed to change. According to our legal terminology, if someone is engaged in an illegal activity, we cannot say that he has obtained an unlawful advantage because there is no such activity. In this context, we have discussed what these most exemplar negative cases have been like in recent times, especially the acquisition of large profits by smuggling people, the smuggling of drugs and similar matters, how justice can be achieved here, so that the existing legislation can be penalised. On the one hand, to punish, which, of course, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Code regulates and then individual laws in these areas when they define such acts as criminally reprehensible. What about the financial benefits that such persons gain? Here we have found that in this period, when we fail to change legislation so quickly, or at the time it is necessary to amend legislation, to define it by means of so-called property growth, and that at least under tax laws, we are punishing someone who has illegally, illegally acquired or acquired a very large amount of wealth. In this way, as I have said, we have at least agreed on how these offences can be punished in a financial, material sense. If we only solve criminal law, there will be no real effect, for these people, who would, for example, be convicted under the criminal code, but on the other hand, they could have an unhindered wealth benefit. To this end, we will also issue appropriate powers and instructions in our Ministry of Finance to the tax service in particular to enable them to assess, monitor, analyse this illegal asset benefit, in particular in terms of the increase in assets in these people, who have not been employed anywhere in the last three, four years, clearly achieved or acquired significant assets. These are the concrete consequences of these questions and the initiatives you have given. If I only briefly repeat in the end, novels of the Offences Act are being prepared, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are being prepared, and we are already considering how we will also prepare in due course the relevant novelties of the Companies Act, which will have to sanction illegal, illegal activity, as I explained in the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, Dr. Bernik, mag. A visor. Please, in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your extensive report. We certainly note with satisfaction that our concerns and our words have not fallen to nothing, and I am very grateful for this report. I would just like to point out that this issue, namely the implementation of laws and the proper organisation of the whole administration in this area, such and other ministries, is indeed crucial. Experience in today's globalised world, in countries that have not acted decisively in time to prevent such an action as money laundering, is today the greatest source of their internal proliferation. Slovenia is on a certain travesty, we certainly do not have such phenomena here as elsewhere, but we must do everything in our power to prevent them in the future. I would like to ask, and I will propose, and now I propose an additional decision, once we have concluded this debate, by the Council of State to ask the Government to report to the National Assembly at the earliest opportunity on all these actions, which Mr State Secretary has now brought to our attention. In the short term, the government should report to the National Assembly on all measures, either on future changes to laws or administrative acts that are necessary, so that once and for all we will have in the National Assembly some assurance that things are actually happening, because this is for our society and for our future can be fateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. I ask you to prepare a written proposal for an additional decision so that the State Assembly may decide on it after the conclusion of the debate on the law. Dr. Bernick has his word, and after him is his colleague Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the principled explanation, but it is also necessary to step on the real ground in this respect. Last time we talked about how many of these applications there were, how many there were in the courts and what's going on with them. I think it has been two months, but I would still like to know if the Director of this office is following this and is reporting to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Vizjak, behind him, colleague Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I am also pleased that, unlike some other areas, the government takes seriously the comments made by Members on the committees and also at this meeting, the plenary, and that something has been done. If I had understood the Secretary of State correctly, I would have raised the following question in this, not in purely good understanding. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a law or comprehensive system for the identification of illegally acquired property, including as a consequence of money laundering and, of course, the consequences of other crimes in this financial area. Is the government preparing a system of identifying origin and thus, of course, identifying illegally acquired assets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Lavrinc's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. I have no illusion that the government, when preparing these things, does not have in mind what has not yet been said here today. But I think it's right to say. In my opinion, one of the problems is that the situation is as it is, also the problem of professional competence. The professional competences of the actors on this page shall be exercised by the States. I mean criminals, tax collectors, judges, prosecutors. In particular, I'll say that, as a lawyer, I have quite a few colleagues in the ranks of state prosecutors. Our common conclusion when we chat about these things is that we were not taught these things at school. In my opinion, some multi-disciplinary education is needed to prosecute such crimes and offences. Without that, we're not going anywhere. That's one. Second. I think it's time that, yes, maybe it's already been done, that it's time, in some way, that a center is set up, where people will be educated based on case studies, and that this professional basis they have at their disposal is one, two, three and four, that this level is rising. It should be noted that on the opposite side of this entire profession stands a highly qualified lawyer, a highly qualified profession. And of course, he subordinates every matter to the most banal stories, that is, when it's complicated by some procedure, and lawyers allow these clients to go beyond punishment. That's the part. The second part, which I would like to draw attention to, is also related to the laws that we are now considering. See, the problem with criminal services, in my opinion, as well as tax collectors and others, is a little less judges, prosecutors, that young people who are in some way trained, due to limited wages, due to the limited possibility of paying for their expertise, then go to other areas. Therefore, it will be necessary to consider training a truly highly qualified team, both those involved in money laundering, both in prosecutors, in criminals, in the dacari and so on, which, of course, will also be able to pay. Otherwise, I guarantee you they'll get away. So I'm asking now that you're dealing with these things, or I'm not asking, but I'm putting it on my heart. Consider whether any changes to legislation are necessary or if only changes in working methods are sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? Dr. Bernick again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	I'm sorry. My provost reminded me of something else. This is how comparable our standards are with other countries of Europe. Secondly, we participate in some communities or international organisations, if any. And for the third time, did we have any outside help in preparing this system? I know that some countries, which are also in transition, only in a lower level of transition, would say they have received help from various countries that have a lot of experience with this thing. I hope our country has had these contacts and the comparison of standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? Will the Secretary of State respond to this debate? Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much to all Members for the questions raised. If I answer to Dr. Bajuk. So, not only have we talked verbally and thought about how to speed up some things with the individual novelties of laws, but I can say that we have also considered on this occasion, I would say, the current state of affairs today in this process. If, in previous periods, the biggest problem has been that the prosecution has ever been brought before it, the beginning of a criminal investigation, because it took a long time to prepare data, that the prosecutor has decided and filed an indictment, and so on, today, of course, when we analysed this at these meetings, we have found that today is significantly less time needed. That's the first one. Secondly, many indictments and criminal investigations have been initiated at this time. At that time, the first convictions were also made. In this respect, we have also considered the Court's precedent, which, in this context, has also been positive in determining the unlawfully acquired property benefits, in our sense, has ruled positively that the person who was punished has also been penalised by taking away this unlawfully acquired property benefit on the basis that I have previously explained. In short, we note that it is now significantly shorter than the perception of certain indicators, phenomena, data obtained by the Money Laundering Office, to the very submission of an indictment and to the initiation of a criminal investigation. With regard to the origin of money laundering, such as the Member of Parliament, Mr Vizjak asked, I can say that it is precisely with these bills that we are upgrading the money laundering prevention system in our country, because today is not enough just as it was at the beginning, before these changes, that you, in a certain transaction over a limit that is legally established, have only completed the application and that this law-based institution, bank, insurance, stock exchange, stock exchange, exchange and similar, was obliged only to describe and transmit the data to the entity further, but the organisation is also obliged to ask the client and to fill out the form on the origin of this property; therefore, in what way is the source of the assets over the amount used for a transaction which they are obliged to report to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Mr Lavrinc, Member of Parliament, has actually drawn attention to a very complex issue. These are highly sophisticated cases, I would say, in money laundering, that we have not actually faced this much before, we have not had many cases, and those we have faced, especially these various networks, these payment systems organisations and, similarly, I am also a judicial expert in this activity, and I can say that a number of years have been needed before we can substantively penetrate into the essence of whether there has been a background crime. We know that there must be at least three reasons for the crime and that they had to be sought. In short, in this education, our office serves mainly certain "twinning" projects where they are educated not only, professional officials of the office and other institutions that monitor this area, but also all those with laws of certain organisations, as I said, banks, insurance companies, brokerage houses, exchange offices and the like to familiarize them with the news in this area. Otherwise, the Office could have some accumulated knowledge, not in practice, where transactions are carried out. In this way, the Office is concerned that, in fact, it would be much closer to seeing these indicators about negative phenomena or suspicious transactions that could be done, as a result of a particular process of money laundering. I can also say that our country and our office are among the founding members of the international organisation FATF, among the founding members of this international group, which is essentially involved in these projects, share experiences with each other, so that we are essentially trying to obtain as much information as possible in this way. Such education will also be organised in the autumn. That is the case, and we will report this, if necessary, by the government, to Parliament or to an individual committee, so that you can monitor progress in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you, too, my colleague Lavrinc, for reminding us today of this dimension of the issue. He will certainly agree with me that we will include this in this decision, which I am currently preparing. We must be aware that the government certainly knows because I know that Slovenia is also part of this OECD working group, which meets several times a year because there are countries dealing with the most sophisticated and creative people who are emerging around the world in the area of financial crime. In a sense, I don't think you'll mind if I say that countries are crying over all these things that are happening. We in this National Assembly must be prepared to monitor the government as well as to allow for legislative changes and changes, so that we are truly in line with everything that is going on. We must not overlook the fact that things are changing here, changing at a very high rate and really demanding the best staff in this area. This is one of the best investments this country can make. I'm warning you again. The social divide that arises from these criminal activities can also be fatal for our society. I will also draw a conclusion in this way, not for the State Assembly to control in this sense, but for us to be informed in a timely manner, that we will be able to enable the Government to do everything it needs and what is in our power to actively monitor all the changes that the developing world is implementing in its legislation today and allow its institutions to prevent this money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	I'm sorry, it's okay if the Secretary of State doesn't want to answer some questions, but I think that the culture of dialogue is one of those if it's asked to answer. My two questions were: Did we have any external advisers when we were making up this system? Secondly: In what procedure are the accusations of money laundering and how do you expect this to develop? Last time we found out, like I said, we weren't very successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you for asking me again, but I thought I answered. I'll repeat that part that concerns your first question. I said that Slovenia participates as a founding member of the international group and is in this part - this group has also drawn on these skills within the framework of the OECD - and has also received occasional experts. But it wasn't some special project to come and help with a foreign mission with your assistants. That wasn't necessary. Thus, we cooperate and have and have exchanged international experience. And I can't answer that second question of yours right now. It is impossible for the Government and the Ministry of Finance to respond or by the Anti-Money Laundering Office to reply on how the procedures will be completed. The Office is responsible for monitoring the collection of indications, analysing and providing all available data to the judiciary, the prosecution, who then submits or does not submit indictments on the basis of these matters. As the procedures end, of course, it is a matter of the court itself. We have internal analyses and assessments, which, of course, are more subjective when we monitor matters and consider what else, on any other occasion, to ensure that the indictment is submitted, that such a criminal procedure is initiated at all. But we can't exactly predict how this thing is going to end. I said that if you followed me earlier when I explained that we had otherwise defined this illegal gain of property. If it comes from transactions that are illegal, it is a very big question. There have been court cases where it has been said that if there is no legal business, then neither can income be treated as such, nor expenditure, and that is why we have tried to define this differently, that it is essentially a matter of overgrowth of assets and that we are following it at least under tax legislation, where we have the opportunity to sanction materially, to find that the property in terms of income legislation has increased in the individual without having had on the other hand, I would say, legal revenues. Then we can be materially and materially within the framework of tax legislation! - sanctioned. I think I explained it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Is there anything else that is not answered or clarified in this discussion? Comrade Viceroy wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think even more attention would be drawn to the question raised by my colleague Lavrinz. In the first part, I think you've responded very extensively and quite qualitatively, it's that part that was talking about the training of the staff that was supposed to prevent these actions. But you haven't, at least I haven't noticed what you've devoted much attention to the other part of how to pay the people who do it. In fact, in the report of the Criminal Police to the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission, we have come to know a rather worrying situation that a police officer investigating acts that can also go to astronomical levels of millions of dollars gets a lower salary than an official in a ministry somewhere, such as a deputy secretary. How can a police officer who earns 100,000 tolars pursue an act worth a million or even a billion tolars. I don't know, the president's giving me signals, but I didn't get you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Here you go. I just wanted to warn my colleague if he can give the paper a little lower, so you don't mind. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	I thought the articulation was meant for me. This is a question that should be addressed both at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of the Interior. It is unacceptable that criminals have a lower basis for payment compared to the same starting points in other ministries. I think that this issue should be clarified more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. Would you like a word with the Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. You yourself have already said that, of course, this is not just the Ministry of Finance's task. The Ministry of Finance is also intended to pay particular attention to, for example, the award within the Ministry of the Interior and to provide certain funds within the budget. I will certainly submit this proposal to our ministry and we will also prepare some measures on this basis. But I'd like to think of something else in my own, I'd say, professional practice is a warning. You know, there's a collection of clues, basic data. The most important thing is what Mr Lavrinc said, then analysis, professional data processing. If you only get information that a transaction has been made, which is already being collected today, of course, it is not enough for an indictment or for, I would say, such doubts or reasonable suspicions as they call it, and a broader investigation is being initiated. Essentially, this is a highly sophisticated expertise. But it's not just ordinary criminals, it's not ordinary cops, it's highly skilled professionals, which the office also educates as such. These are very, as Dr. Bajuk said, very transvested and very developed forms, and we must not pretend to be on the ground gathering this basic information as such. It's just a first-indication aid. Then it is the analysis, processing, exchange of information between different services, institutions leading to those more well-founded things to assess that a report for the prosecution is then drawn up or a proposal is made to the prosecution for the initiation of a criminal investigation and so on. I certainly don't mean to say that we're not going to pay any attention to this, but I think that we should pay particular attention, as Dr. Bayuk said, to the experts who will see it. Many times these matters are also international. We should not be blinded if we can only say tax evasion in the area of value added tax, which we do not yet know in essence in the context of the policy theory, is already touching our opinions. Therefore, we must follow professionally that we will not be able to take part in the field of taxes, because this is often linked, so that these sources of this property are different, so that we will not run out of experts who would know and be able to analyse this more widely, but not just by collecting these basic data on the ground, which police or criminals can do in their work. So, without neglecting or raising just one side, this pyramid must truly be built from the bottom. I think the Money Laundering Bureau, as he reported at the N.M., has a built-in model. Now, of course, everything depends on how many of these people we will train, how long, how experienced or capable they will be themselves, is resourceful that things will lead to where we want them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I thank the Secretary of State for his participation in the debate. I conclude this debate. We are moving to a decision on Article 7 or the amendment to Article 7 and Article 38. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 7. You have this amendment in the report of the committee responsible. Anyone want a word about that? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for an amendment to Article 7. Let's vote! We are voting on the proposal for an amendment to Article 7. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 supported them. No one objected to him. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 7 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment proposal to Article 38. Let me remind you that this is attached to the government's proposal, the bill on money laundering prevention, on page 22. I am opening the debate on the proposal for an amendment to Article 38. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 38. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members of the National Assembly in this vote. 49 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now done voting on the supplements. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate mutual compliance. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. I'm putting this law to a vote. We vote. There are 59 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 58 of them supported the marriage, no one opposed it. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. Before concluding this point, I ask the proposaler of the additional decision, Dr Bayuk, whether we have this proposal for a decision. He's not a multiple yet. If the National Assembly agrees, it will read it and then the National Assembly will assess whether, due to possible uncertainty, it is necessary to fully reproduce it to all colleagues. An additional decision on the law on the prevention of money laundering is: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report to the National Assembly as soon as possible on all measures, activities and acts adopted by the Government with a view to achieving the objectives pursued by the law on money prevention, while at the same time reporting on the success of these measures. Special attention should be given to professional training in this area by the Government. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Head of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Is the proposal for an additional decision clear enough to allow us to discuss and decide on it? There are no contracts. Then I am putting this proposal for an additional decision to the debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we will vote on the proposal. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to a vote. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 28 Members and Members voted in favour, 29 of them opposed. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 29.]] The proposal for an additional decision was not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law on banks of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Any of the government's representatives want a word? Please, please, mag. Tolar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	Dear Members and honourable Members! The text of the new law on Banka Slovenije, ahead of you, represents the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the European legal order in the field of central bank, monetary policy and public sector financing by the central bank. The Slovenian regime in this area is laid down in Article 152 of the Constitution, which speaks of the Bank of Slovenia being independent in the performance of its duties and responding to the National Assembly, and of the Bank of Slovenia Act on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia was established and on the basis of which it carries out its tasks. The current regime is largely in line with the European legal order governed by the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. However, there are still some important differences that the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself in the negotiating process to abolish by the end of this year by means of a new Bank of Slovenia law. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent a new law to the National Assembly last August, unfortunately due to procedural obstacles, only today. The most important differences leading to changes in the Banka Slovenije Act [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	Mr Secretary of State, no offense to interrupt you, but you are proposing a bill on banks. I need to ask my colleagues and colleagues not to bother you. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	The most important differences leading to the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act touch on the issues of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, where the law in force is largely harmonised. However, the European Union has a slightly broader understanding of the independence of the central bank as the functional, institutional, human and financial independence of the central bank. The following important difference relates to the financing of the public sector by the central bank, which is prohibited by the European acquis. The current law contains provisions allowing this type of funding, although this option has never been used in practice. The removal of non-compliance will provide a sufficient basis for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. However, the fact is that the Republic of Slovenia will also have to enter the European Monetary Union within a certain period of time after entry into the European Union when all convergence criteria are met. The introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore a future obligation which is inevitable for the Republic of Slovenia and for the other candidates of the current European Union enlargement cycle. This means that the candidate countries and, among them, the Republic of Slovenia, together with the candidate for integration into the European Union, are in fact also proscribed for later entry into the European Monetary Union. With the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, as an integral part of the Slovenian system of central banks with all rights and obligations, will lose its independence and independence in the management of monetary policy. It will also be necessary to meet certain other requirements with this moment. In view of the fact that entry into the European Monetary Union will be more time-consuming than entry into the European Union, we have encountered a dilemma, whether the new law should introduce only those provisions which are important for the entry into the European Union and concern, in particular, the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, the total elimination of public sector financing and the address of monetary policy and the setting of the price stability objective as the fundamental and sole objective of monetary policy, or the full implementation of the provisions which are linked to entry into the European Monetary Union. It was decided that the new law would establish a comprehensive European legal order in this area by covering both stages, but that the provisions relating to the entry into the European Monetary Union would only apply with the actual entry into it. The following briefly summarizes some of the more important requirements relating to the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, which have not been fully implemented in the law in force so far, and this is also the main solution in the proposal for a law. The most important requirement is the issue of central bank independence. Only a fully independent central bank can effectively implement monetary policy and thus achieve and maintain price stability as a key objective to which the central bank is committed. Independence in the European legal system is defined in four ways: functional, institutional, human and financial independence of the central bank. Functional independence means that the central bank is committed to one main objective in its operations, namely to ensuring price stability. Any additional objectives to be followed by the central bank in its operations constitute a derogation from this objective and that the central bank is no longer independent in its functional sense. Our current regime in this area sets two goals for Banka Slovenije, namely the security of the currency and the general liquidity of payments in the country and abroad. The proposal for a new law in this area follows regulation in the European Union and sets the objective of price stability as the main and sole objective of the Bank of Slovenia's operation. Another aspect of independence is the institutional independence of the central bank, which means that the central bank is not bound to the instructions of any other authorities in the performance of its tasks and that the central bank or members of its management bodies may not seek guidance either from the government or other authorities in the country or the European Union. In this area, we believe that the current law is not in any more important disharmony with European regulation. Nevertheless, in the proposal for a law, institutional independence is further exacerbated in Article 2. The following aspect of independence is the human resources independence of the central bank management bodies, which must be provided through procedures, appointments and discharges and the term of office of the Governor and members of the central bank board. The European legal regime in this area underlines, in particular, the prevention of conflicts of interest that could take place with individual members of the Central Bank Council, if more jobs were to be carried out.In this regard, we have been able to obtain an interpretation of the European Union Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which are significantly different in terms of the professionalisation of members of the Central Bank Council. The interpretation of the Commission of the European Union requires that the members of the Central Bank Board are in a full working relationship with the central bank and excludes the so-called external members of the Central Bank Council, which we have in the current regulation. The position of the European Central Bank is somewhat less restrictive and allows for the participation of external members who are in a regular working relationship with higher education institutions or in scientific research institutions if there is no conflict of interest. The least restrictive is the position of the International Monetary Fund, which considers that a majority share of external members should be provided in the central bank’s management bodies. The bill followed the proposal of the Commission of the European Union, not only because of possible conflicts of interest, but also because the government felt that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia should carry out their duties in the main part of their working time, which would help to achieve more thorough and quality work. In view of this proposal, the law has slightly changed the current composition of the Bank of Slovenia. In addition to the Governor, the Deputy Governor and the three vice-presidents, six external members are still in office. The new proposal, however, reduces the members of the Council to nine members, to the Governor and to eight other members, four of whom could be from higher education teachers or researchers in a regular working relationship with Banka Slovenija with only one third of the working time, full-time. As the fourth aspect of the independence of the central bank, as defined by the European legal order, there is a financial aspect, which means that the central bank must have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks independently. In this area, the current Bank of Slovenia Act confers certain powers on the National Assembly, which confirms the Bank of Slovenia's financial report for the previous year and approves the financial plan for the following year. Such arrangements are inconsistent with the arrangements in the European Union. The position of the Bank of Slovenia should enable it to have the means itself to achieve the objectives pursued by the European System of Central Banks in an appropriate manner. Subsequent changes in the financial challenges of Banka Slovenije by third parties are not acceptable, but it is permissible to deal with these statements because of the transparency of the Bank of Slovenia. Notwithstanding the above, objective and legal criteria for the allocation of income or loss are not contrary to the principle of financial independence. The draft law removes the current role of the National Assembly in certifying Banka Slovenije's financial statements for the previous year and in giving consent to the financial plan for the following year. Article 6 also establishes criteria for the sharing of Banka Slovenije’s profits, which provides that 20% of Banka Slovenije’s annual profits are earmarked for general reserves. These are reserves that cover the risk of Banka Slovenije operating, except for exchange and interest risks covered by special reserves, and the remainder of Banka Slovenije’s profits shall be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia unless the Council of Banka Slovenije proposes a higher general reserve to be approved by the Minister responsible for finance. The next important requirement relating to the integration into the European Union is the prohibition of direct financing by the State and its institutions. The purpose of these prohibitions is to prevent the inflationary impact of such financing. The proposal for a law as one of the requirements of the European acquis also includes the prohibition of privileged access of state-owned institutions to central bank funds. They may only be obtained under conditions applicable to all private market participants. However, the second set of solutions included in the draft law is linked to the integration into the European Monetary Union. With the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit, the Bank of Slovenia will be obliged to implement the monetary policy of the European Central Bank with the prescribed instruments, and it will have to ensure the full financial comparability of operations, subject to the rules of supervision and audit in the Eurosystem, the rules of issuance of banknotes and coins, the rules of allocation of emission profits. It will have to enter capital and transfer foreign exchange reserves to the European Central Bank. Dear Members and Members! The proposal presented by the Bank of Slovenia law represents a re-conclusion with the European legal order, both in terms of inclusion in full membership in the European Union and in terms of accession to the Eurosystem, and the transitional provisions define articles that enter into force in the first or second phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for the introductory explanation of the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will take note of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body and, in a broad and rather qualitative debate, focused on the following issues, or solutions, which the Government should consider in particular before the second hearing, in terms of those comments by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which I will try to outline briefly. First time. The situation of the Bank of Slovenia in terms of the expected relations within the European Economic and Monetary Union and in terms of the expected changes to the Slovenian Constitution is raised. In particular, appropriateness and necessity should be assessed and the possibilities for amending the provisions of Article 152 of the Constitution, which governs the issue of the central bank. It is also necessary to re-examine a specific system of law to ensure a clearer regulation of certain very different legal situations with the Bank of Slovenia and to re-examine the concept of a comprehensive integration of the requirements of the European acquis, i.e. solutions relating to the European Monetary Union. Similarly, until the entry into the European Monetary Union, the provision of Article 11 of the envisaged law is fully inadequate. It should also be pointed out, or more specifically, the importance of transitional provisions, which must necessarily ensure an appropriate time-limit for the application of individual legal solutions which are not legally relevant at the moment because they are premature and constitutionally inconsistent. In the ensuing debate, the members of the Committee paid particular attention to some issues relating to the independence of the central bank’s management bodies, in particular in terms of preventing conflicts of interest that could arise with individual members of the Bank of Slovenia Council, if they were to carry out more work. Regarding the various interpretations, it is also necessary to state that Banka Slovenije, in its view, would be a good solution for them by interpreting the international monetary fund, which foresees the dominant influence of external members and would be absolutely acceptable to Banka Slovenije as such. In this context, the proposed solutions concerning management bodies should be examined in further discussion or in the preparation of the second reading law, taking into account the different opinions of the European institutions. So do I. [[These are also the Committee's views]] it is necessary to enforce in law the rate of corporate tax, in this case or at present 25%, as that part of the surplus of expenditure to be allocated to the State budget or as the remainder of these surpluses of expenditure allocated to specific and general reserves. The Committee has also drawn up its position within the meaning of the withdrawn law of colleague Andrej Visiak on the arrangements for the selection of the Bank of Slovenia auditor. In this regard, we also propose to the National Assembly the adoption of an appropriate position to be taken by the Government in order to prepare the text of the second reading law. I propose to the National Assembly that, together with the conclusion that the proposed law is a suitable basis for a second reading, it also adopts the following three views. The first position that the proposer of the law should provide for the allocation of such a percentage of revenue generated over expenditure in the State budget corresponding to the applicable rate of corporate tax. The second point is that it should provide for the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to elect an independent external auditor, proposed by the Bank of Slovenia, and also take due account of the comments made by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. I ask if the representative of the secretariat has any comments. [[No, it's not.]] I invite representatives of the Group to present their views. I have two written comments from colleagues who will present their views on behalf of the groups. First of all, this is a colleague of Fari Horvat, followed by his colleague Barovic, mag. Visa on behalf of the Group of Members. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Dr. Bayuk. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Would any of the Members like to apply for a debate that will be longer than 5 minutes? [[No, no, ……]] If anyone checks in, I'll limit his discussion to five minutes. I now invite my colleague, Ferri Horvat, to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Comrade Feri Horvat may speak on behalf of the parliamentary group on behalf of the speaker stage, and I invite you to stick to these restraints when presenting the views of committees, sent groups and when the introduction is made by a government representative. After him, then, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, and thank you for inviting me to speak here. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! Our Group supports the proposal for a law, a fundamental solution and also the proposals for conclusions and positions proposed by the mother's working body. However, I would like to talk about some of the issues that are already on the Committee itself, as the Chairman of the Committee has said, and it is clear from the report that it has sparked considerable debate, well-founded and also different views on individual issues, taking into account the opinion of the secretariat, which is very important, and the fact that we also have different opinions from competent international European and other institutions. All of this points to the fact that some issues need to be examined thoroughly in the preparation of the law for the second reading and then also to propose the best possible solutions. Indeed, what the Secretary of State stated in the opening statement is that a large part of the legal regime has already provided or ensures the independent position of the central bank, especially in relation to a government where the central bank has actually been independent, may sometimes have been lacking, irrespective of its independence, coordination in individual segments, macroeconomic policies where matters are intertwined by content. Let me switch to some open questions. First time. It is essential that now, in this envisaged package of constitutional changes, in that part, in particular, relating to the adaptation of the Constitution, the need for integration into the European Union in order to amend Article 152. If we look at the dictates of this article, in fact, it explicitly determines the responsibility of the central bank to the national assembly. Another time. I also believe that the law will need to define more clearly, more transparently and more systematically if this is possible in terms of chapters, the position and in particular the attitude of the Central Bank towards the National Assembly, to membership, to the point that we become members of the European Union and then from membership to eventual membership in the European Monetary Union. The third issue that has already been discussed is the leadership and, above all, the composition of the Central Bank Council. Here we heard different opinions, different views. We somehow tend to suggest that it would probably be because of actual independence, because of professionalism and responsibility to define ourselves as a variant, or at least to study the option that even if non-professional outsiders of the world are members of the world, most of them will have secular professional workers who are employed in this bank, the governor and others. In our view, this actually provides greater responsibility and we also assume greater independence. The fact is that these solutions, which are supposed to be more flexible, are also external members, that, given that they cannot be members of those representatives or experts or entrepreneurs, and so on, where there may be a conflict of interest, there will also be, in this category of university teachers or other independent experts, that the problem may arise in a clear definition of whether or not there is a conflict of interest. The fact is that a number of university professors also carry out profitable activities, as well as researchers in individual institutions and so on. This does not mean a categorical opposition to the fact that they are also external members, but I would point out that problems may arise in the implementation of this provision if it is not very precisely defined. The fourth question is the issue of supervision of banks at home and their subsidiaries abroad or banks where domestic banks are shareholders in banks abroad. Not so much under the influence of the current problems, but it is generally important in law to clearly define the role of the central bank in the supervision of banks. The worst part is, if this is not defined, that there will be a need to find a link here then to the banking law that defines the area of control. Finally, the question already raised by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, which is covered by the report, is the establishment of an audit house for the Bank of Slovenia. We also agree that the impact of the National Assembly is still to be maintained here, which, according to our assessment, does not mean that the Plenary Assembly should decide on this, but that it might be possible to use the practice so far to do so in the field of monetary policy or in the area of the Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to present the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the opening explanation of the proposal for the Bank of Slovenia Act, which is now under first reading, we have heard that Slovenia has committed itself to amending and harmonising legislation in the negotiation process with the European Union. As in the past, when we met with promises and we felt a bit awkward about the European Union, because we had to act as a nation against negotiators by fulfilling our promise, this time I am evaluating and evaluating in the Slovenian National Party, but it is time to adapt the legislation both in terms of content and in such a way that Slovenia will have an equal negotiating position against the European Union and, of course, its monetary institutions. I am also personally satisfied with the work of my mother's working body, with the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because the talk on the proposal for a law on the Bank of Slovenia was long, comprehensive and precise. We have also heard a little earlier that, in the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we should not, of course, forget the Bank of Slovenia since this article regulates its status, governs the central bank. And suddenly we're in some chess mat position. We see that the proposal of the Banka Slovenije Act stipulates that the Bank of Slovenia will become fully independent and, in other words, removes the responsibility it has now had until the national assembly. When we change this article in the constitution in 152, let's say this year, we will give the Bank of Slovenia the fulfilment of its article in the bill. She'll become independent. On the other hand, we will not be in the European Union, nor in the European Central Bank or in the European System of Central Banks. On the other hand, Banka Slovenije, as we have all heard, will be granted complete independence at home and will lose her full independence and will be accountable to the authorities under the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. Therefore, it is all the more important to warn the Secretariat that in the second reading of this law, each article and its stipulation should also determine on time when to enter into force. In this way, we will fulfil our obligations under the negotiating process, adapt legislation to the Bank of Slovenia's requirements and maintain that autonomy and that equal position in order to enforce the rules of the European Union's games when, of course, we will also be members of the European Union. We also talked about four independences. I'll just stop at one. If we look at the explanation in the so-called human resources independence of the central bank's authorities, we see that we already have three different institutions in the world and in Europe, each looking at the composition of the bank's council differently. This is how the European Commission requires members of the world to be all in order, from first to last, professionals and employees. On the other hand, the diametric interpretation of the international monetary fund or fund is an emphasis on the importance of a larger number of external members in the world. We still have a somewhat intermediate flexibility, such as the European Central Bank's interpretation, which is looking for some balance. Here, too, I think of our Parliament and our country as a very important element, which is being further processed by this law, which needs to be given a lot of attention and a world of banks, so that it plays its part in the European Union, in the European monetary systems, as well as in the country. It is right if I continue to point out that the mother's working body has been alerted to the Magi proposal. Andrej Visiak, who is talking about the audit, about the audit process and who wishes to introduce in any way any security guard who will still be in the supervisory function of the audit of the Bank of Slovenia. The position of the parent committee is also to find an instrument that would not be contrary to the requirements of the European Union. Finally, I should like to point out once again - I think that my colleague Mr Ferri Horvat also mentioned - that if we are to amend Article 152 of the Constitution and give Banka Slovenije absolute and complete independence, until the Bank of Slovenia will also be in the system of the European Central Bank and in the system of central banks, it is necessary to find some balance with the current situation and with the current fact that Banka Slovenije is still directly in line with the National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal drawn up on the working body and we will confirm that the proposal for the Bank of Slovenia Act, at first reading, is a suitable basis for further work, taking into account, of course, the additional decisions drawn up by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I hope that, even in the light of what has been said, this moment in this bench, in particular because of our country's equal starting point in negotiations with the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party, colleague mag. Vizjak, followed by a colleague of Dr. Andrej Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! I see practically that all of us and all the Members of Parliament, as well as the Committee on Finance, revolve around the same issues, only that some attribute such, other different weights to these concerns. In particular, in the Social Democratic Party, we ask ourselves whether the proposal for a Banka Slovenije law is a suitable basis for first reading, with all these comments given, about which we are united. In particular, the first most important point is the consistency of the legal order in Slovenia and the consistency of this proposal with the Constitution. Article 152 of the Constitution states that the Bank of Slovenia, as a central bank, is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly. Now this direct liability of the market remains a constitutional provision. I also wonder, of course, how, in the light of the current proposals for constitutional amendments to this proposal, we do not change this constitutional provision and at the same time place the law in such a dictatorship as it is. We believe that the paradox here and in the light of the consistency of the rule of law is unacceptable to propose something we know, or at least to assume that it is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is the first and fundamental thought. We believe that it is difficult for a law to provide a legal basis for a second reading under such a constitutional decree and with some vague intentions that this constitution should also be changed. In fact, it is also unacceptable that the law is first adopted in the first reading, which provides for a change in the Constitution, but at the same time there is no change in the Constitution. Another very important point is this threefold time or clear and unequivocal arrangement, in particular the situation of Banka Slovenije in three separate time periods and very different periods of Banka Slovenije. We have a law that doesn't respond to these three separate time periods. The first time period is the position of the bank until Slovenia enters the European Union. The second time period is the position of the bank after entering the European Union and before entering the European Monetary Union. The third period is the position of the bank after entering the European Monetary Union. We believe that in the first reading, the law should foresee this threefold dimension of the intraday dimension of the position of the Bank of Slovenia, which is not, of course, foreseen by this law. This has been pointed out by all my predecessors, as well as the Secretariat of Law. This has also been a longer consideration on the Committee on Finance. I ask the Government or the representative of the Government whether the law can be corrected until the second reading in the sense that these grounds are more clearly defined in accordance with the views of the Finance Committee, the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, as well as the debate on both the Committee on Finance and today. I ask whether the law is a suitable basis for second reading or whether the government will be able to correct the concept of law in the sense of adapting it to these three time dimensions. A third very important area is the banking supervision regime, which ensures the security of deposits of savings deposits and other investments by banks in banks. Europe has a very wide range of options and options here. I am interested in how this issue will be regulated in the future in Slovenia as well. Parliament now had an option, both in the constitutional provision and through the current debate on the New York daughter of the New Ljubljana Bank. I wonder how this will be done in the future and how the Bank of Slovenia, or any other financial institution in Slovenia, will carry out supervision of banking operations mainly in terms of ensuring the security of deposits and savings deposits and, of course, other investments by banks, which will of course have a very strong impact on stability and, of course, on the reputation of our banking system. Finally, at 4 p.m., he would also touch on this human resources independence. As we have already heard, there are many options, but I believe that there is a need to follow the full independence of the members of the Bank's Council and therefore full professionalisation. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State or the government representative here how, in negotiations with the European Union, what was the extraction of our negotiators and whether these negotiators demanded full professionalisation or not. Is this article, which speaks of the composition and professionalization of members of the world, in line with the requirements of our and foreign negotiators in the light of convergence? It is only on the basis of these answers that we will find it easier to decide whether this law is a suitable basis for further procedure or not. If, in view of these dilemmas, which have been repeatedly exposed here today, it is possible to adapt this law in accordance with the comments, although this will be another law, it will no longer be my opinion that this will be the same law on the Bank of Slovenia, since the comments made by both Members and Members, as well as by the Committee, as well as by the Secretariat, substantially change the specific concept of this law. I would like these answers first, and later we will be able to decide on the basis of the answers to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I invite Dr. Andre Bajuk to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. This will, according to the list of applicants, be completed by presenting the views of the groups of Members and opening a debate for Members and Members. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate, I cannot help but conclude that they are in fact already in the home working body and even today, when I hear the views of the members of the groups, very legitimate questions have been raised regarding this law, which is of a systemic nature and of key importance to all of us. I certainly agree with what has been said from this platform, and I propose that we re-examine this very conclusion of the parent working body in this sense, if it is really possible that this law, as it is now written, is really the basis for a second reading. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to definitively determine what alignment with the European Union's legal order will be for the time when Slovenia becomes a member of Europe and also for the time after it becomes a member of the European Monetary Union, and this will not be at the same time. We believe that if the law wants to regulate Slovenia's final objective today, entry into the EU should clearly and unequivocally regulate the position of the Bank of Slovenia for both periods, as European Union legislation distinguishes between the two situations of the countries or their central banks. In addition, this law should clearly and unequivocally address in particular the situation of the Bank of Slovenia until the entry into the European Union when the Bank of Slovenia operates and has to operate on the basis of the current Constitution. The bill does not systematically regulate these three legally very different positions for the Bank of Slovenia. This is also not achieved in the transitional provisions which must ensure an appropriate time-limit for the application and not only the application of individual legal solutions which are not legally relevant at the moment because they are premature and are also constitutionally incompatible. Of course, it is also possible to agree with all the Secretariat's comments on the individual article of the Bank of Slovenia Act. I would like to point out that these notes relate to almost a third of the laws that are mostly systemic. The regulation of the position of the central bank within the institutional framework of each EU Member State and EMU is not uniform. We must be aware of this because all central banks do not carry out the same tasks. All central banks shall be empowered to determine and implement monetary policy and that part of the supervision of banks and other credit institutions relating to the implementation of monetary policy. However, not all central banks exercise control over the operations of individual business banks. Special institutions shall be responsible for the supervision of banking operations that ensures the security of deposits, savings deposits and other investments of bank clients in banks. This is, for example, in the EU, in its largest country, in Germany, and of course it is in the US. Of course, the European Central Bank does not have such tasks. Therefore, the general reference to the responsibilities and responsibilities of the European Central Bank in explaining this law is not entirely appropriate. We therefore believe that the National Assembly should be aware of the clear comparative arrangements for the competence of individual central banks of the Member States of the European Union and EMU at this first reading of the law. Such a comparative arrangement should be prepared by independent experts from our economic and legal colleges and constitutional law experts. We will therefore propose a decision, and I now propose that the National Assembly, as an auxiliary working body of the National Assembly Commission to prepare amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, appoint a group of experts to prepare a new proposal for the Bank of Slovenia, so that it distinguishes the position and tasks of the Slovenian Central Bank at a time when Slovenia will only be a member of the European Union and at the same time be a member of the EMU and, until EU integration, in accordance with our constitutional arrangements. In particular, I would also like to mention that such an analysis should be based on the examination of all the experience in the European Union, of all the countries that are now members, of how they have regulated all these dimensions in their own legal order and which, as we have determined, are not yet sufficient or properly proposed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted our distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the list of representatives of the parliamentary groups. I am opening a debate for Members and Members and limiting it to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Do I see anyone right? I'm closing the debate. Did you want to answer the discussion? Please. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	President of the House, thank you very much for your word. Because he's a magician. Vizjak has asked some specific questions he wants and wanted to get answers from my side, let me just try to answer this question briefly, even though he is not present in the Chamber at this time. In the introduction, I have tried to point out that the text of the law is designed to clearly define those parts of the law which are to enter into force immediately after the adoption of the law in this assembly and are to apply until the entry into force of the European Union. Therefore, for a period of two years. The part that we will have to start at the time of entry into the European Union, as well as the third part that will enter into force for the Slovenian monetary authority when we meet the conditions and when we are admitted to the European Monetary Union. When drafting texts for second reading, of course, we will take into account all your comments, which we will of course try to take into account as much as possible, so that in the second reading, the text of the law will be clearer and more appropriate in this sense. The next question was what will be the arrangements for deposit guarantee in commercial banks or in Slovenian banks when we enter the European Union. This very important composition is part of the already adopted Banking Act. It was adopted by the National Assembly in 1999. In its provision, it provides that all natural persons and legal persons, as well as persons who independently manage an activity, shall be guaranteed payment in the event of a bankruptcy of an individual bank of EUR 20,000. This provision is made in accordance with the Directive of the European Union, which required all Member States, as well as the candidate Member States, to introduce this provision into the relevant legislation. By last year, this was the case for all members of the European Union, of course, for candidates it was a somewhat longer period. On this basis, the Bank of Slovenia, which is empowered to issue sub-laws, has also issued more detailed instructions, a specific act on what solidarity is between Slovenian banks. It therefore implemented this EUR 20,000 minimum guarantee and allowed Slovenian banks to accept higher guarantees, higher levels of guarantee, pre-deposit as individual market participants or as a whole. For the time being, the Slovenian banks have not decided on an additional guarantee, for a simple reason, because it is considered that the two-percent investment that banks must have in Banka Slovenije’s securities is always in the portfolio in order to participate in dealing with the consequences of the bankruptcy of a Slovenian bank is sufficient for the potential bankruptcy of a medium-sized Slovenian bank. Of course, Banka Slovenije retained the right to accept, in another case, an additional debt from banks for solidarity coverage, of course all with a view to in no case compromising the confidence of Slovenian savers in the solidarity of the Slovenian banking system. The question of how negotiations with the European Union have identified the issue of a human resources solution, the composition of the Bank of Slovenia Council, should be taken into account: firstly, that the text of the law before you was drafted at the beginning of 2000 and submitted, as I said, to Parliament last year and until then we have not been able to change it. For the second reading, we have a series of proposals to complete the text, to change the definitions you have discussed, and this second reading, if I may say in the football term, we are looking forward to it. What is likely to prevail will not be the position of the European Union in the case of recruitment into the world of Banka Slovenije, nor will the position of the International Monetary Fund, but will remain the most important position and definition of the European Central Bank, which, as you recall when I mentioned it, represents a compromise solution between the first and second variants. Of course, it is up to you to make a different decision. The fact is that Slovenia is a small country, has a small population compared to the European Union and that we need to think carefully about the original and specific solutions that are most appropriate for our country and for our monetary system. On the question of the initiative to amend the Constitution or Article 152 of the Constitution, of course, I must say that we are behind schedule, but of course we will try to give you further clearer answers as to how, by amending that provision or this Article of the Constitution. Of course, with a clear view that, unless such a position is adopted in the amendment of the Constitution, such a law will not be able to be adopted so quickly, it will be in force. But one more time. Banka Slovenije has only a two-year period ahead of it in which it could prepare for a greater monetary dependency, which, of course, could, to a greater extent and for a longer period, be able to implement as part of the branch system, if you wish, the European Central Bank in the future. Thank you very much. I hope that at least some questions have been answered satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Perhaps one of the colleagues or colleagues would like a word following the reply of the government representative to the debate of the Member and Members. I guess not. And now I am really closing the debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the first consideration, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second treatment law." Anyone would like a word on this proposal for a decision? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you also very much to the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions raised by colleague Vizjak. Obviously, however, I do not see sufficient basis in these answers to support this very conclusion in the sense that this law, as it is written today, is actually the right basis for a second reading. So, New Slovenia, our parliamentary group will vote against this. We believe that for all these problems that have already been identified in this debate, and for which representatives of certain parliamentary groups have already made it clear that they are demanding so many changes that I do not see - in fact I do not see - why would they say that what we already have is a sufficient basis, as a first reading, for the second reading. Well, we'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. My friend Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I will myself, despite the comments I have made, and even though I also agree with the large number of comments made by my opposition colleagues, I will vote in favour of this decision for a simple reason not to reject the procedure for drafting and adopting the law. It is true that what Comrade Vizjak has found that so many comments are justified and that so many holes in this proposal is the law that the government - and so I also understood the Secretary of State - has prepared a large part of it, or most of the comments are taken into account and then prepared a suitable proposal for another reading; that it is better to decide to support it and then to prepare such a law, that we will then deal with it in due course, rather than rejecting it in order to continue to study certain matters, to seek comparisons outside. This can be done in parallel - what is not yet known - simply so as not to reject the full adaptation of legislation in this important area of European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Let me just explain. If this decision is adopted, the national assembly will go to the vote on the positions drawn up by the home committee and will then be obliged to take them into account in the preparation for the second reading. Anyone else want a word? Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you. Our parliamentary group, too, based on statements or also on interpretation, that the law is invalid and is also recognised by the proposer and that it will try to reconcile it somehow until the next reading - we cannot agree with such a procedure and with such a way of enacting very important laws in Slovenia. I believe that this is also the solution, that the law, based on a thorough analysis of the situation, is being prepared for a rapid procedure and that it can also be adopted within the time limit foreseen. That is why I do not see the procedural and other reasons that we really should now - for which I see that consensus - is bad or, in my opinion, an inappropriate law to continue to be passed just because of the procedure and just because of some of our promises to Europe. I think that this commitment can be achieved in a more professional way and within the given deadlines. I would also like to point out that, before respecting some of our promises to the European Union, the quality of domestic legislation is its own. If we fluctuate in the Social Democratic Party between these two values, in particular the value of quality domestic legislation, particularly in the financial field, is before strict compliance with deadlines. I believe that it is possible to do both here in order to prepare a quality law that is submitted by means of a rapid procedure, while at the same time reaching the required deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	We are therefore in the debate on the conclusion that the proposal is appropriate for the preparation of a second reading. Anyone else want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present in the Chamber; 40 voted in favour of the proposed decision; 17 voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This allows us to go to the debate on the positions of the mother's working body and are recorded in his report. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we move on to a full decision on the proposal for positions. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 48 votes in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedural? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In my presentation, Mr President, I have also proposed one decision, and I would like to ask when it will come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Dr. Bayuk, what conclusion do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	That's what I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	I don't have a letter in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	When I spoke, I said that I would like to propose a formal decision that the National Assembly, as an auxiliary working body to the National Assembly for the preparation of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, should appoint a group of experts to prepare - of course, if this is now accepted as a first consideration, it will not be a new one preparing the law for second reading - by distinguishing the position and tasks of the Slovenian Central Bank before and at the time when Slovenia will be a member of the European Union and at the same time a member of the EMU and at the time of EU integration in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If you don't mind my explaining, we're in procedural mode now. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Comrade Dr. Bajuk, as in the previous agenda item, when you also proposed an additional decision, we asked you to file it in writing. I expected you to if you thought you'd just do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	Well, then, on behalf of the Group of Members, I ask for a ten-minute recess so that we can prepare this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	I shall set aside ten minutes of rest for the preparation of a decision to be taken by the national assembly before the conclusion of this point. We'll continue at 12:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	Time of a certain break has run out. I'd like to invite Dr. Bayuk's colleague to hurry up and prepare a verdict. We're moving on to the session. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press one of the keys. There are not enough Members and Members present in the Chamber to be able to conclude, so I will rediscover the presence. I'm rediscovering the concoction. Please press the quorum key. The card deposit itself is not enough for 55 colleagues and colleagues to attend. [[...]] The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I will read a proposal for an additional decision on the Bank of Slovenia bill, as tabled by Dr Andrej Bajuk, Head of the New Slovenia Group of Members. "As the preparation of the legislative text for second reading, the expert services of the National Assembly, with the assistance of relevant external experts, shall prepare a comparative analysis of all the different institutional solutions and approaches in the individual Member States of the European Union concerning the role of central banks before and after entry into the European Monetary Union, as well as various arrangements for the supervision of banking operations that ensure the security of deposits, savings deposits and other investments of banking clients." Dr. Andrey Bajuk raised his hand. Before I give you my word, I would like to say that next time you propose an additional decision, do so in writing and at a time that will allow the State Assembly to discuss this without taking a break. Now I invite you to explain. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your warning. In fact, I was sure that this decision would not be adopted as it had already been adopted, so I had to correct this matter accordingly. I would just like to explain that the only thing we want to achieve with this is that we will have a sufficient and comprehensive review in the National Assembly, of how the other countries of the European Union have really come to the solution of these problems. Our position of Banka Slovenije, which has the role of central bank and also exercises control over the entire banking system, is one - not everywhere, obviously not so in Germany. I think we need to see and get to know the whole palette of how such things can be regulated, and I think this must really be the basis for the preparation of the law for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, I have consulted with the secretariat, this is not a direct matter of the legislative procedure. Such a proposal, as contained in your additional decision, can be addressed as a Member to a competent analytical service, a research service of the National Assembly, and you are obliged to do so. In this respect, I remind you that a comparative analysis could be prepared without the National Assembly concluding on this, and I invite you to withdraw this additional decision because there are other ways to reach this solution. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I am aware of this, but it is not just the need of one Member or one Member Group. We believe that this is the need of the entire national assembly, and therefore I have also proposed that, for this reason, everyone who is present here today should take part. Thank you very much. And I'm not withdrawing my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Well, I, my colleague Dr. Bayuk, have to find out, but also based on the proposal [[...]] Therefore, please suggest that such an expert decision be taken by the National Assembly despite my warning that you may order it as well. I will put such a proposal to the vote and if the National Assembly decides in favour of your proposal, then this will be the decision of the National Assembly, or you can do it yourself. I put such a proposal to the vote. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I put such a proposal to the vote. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. 19 votes in favour, 30 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 30.]] Here, with this result, which is therefore against the adoption of this additional decision, I say once again that this does not affect the possibility that you, Comrade Dr. Bajuk, ask the competent professional service to prepare such a comparative analysis and it is also necessary to prepare it I hereby conclude this agenda item. It's 12 and 56 minutes. I suggest we don't open the next point, point nine. I suggest we do this after recess. We'll continue at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	Dear Members, honourable Members. We continue with the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that they have been added as justification for the continuation of the 8th session, on 26.9.2001: Danica Simšič for the afternoon part of the session, Jože Ašič for the afternoon part of the session and Jaša Zlobec Lukič for the afternoon part of the session. Since we will determine the presence, I respectfully ask you to prove your presence in the hall by pressing the button on the quorum. We're detecting a presence. There are 42 of us here. I think there are more of us in the hall, so I politely ask for some attention at the beginning of our work. We'll rediscover the presence. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND PRIVATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE PERSONS IN THE STRENGTH OF SLOVENIAN DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY - SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Can I help you? State Secretary, Ministry of Economy, Dr. Boštjan Antončič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the law on the completion of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society in a reduced procedure. By its decision of 19 January of this year, the Constitutional Court decided that the fourth and ninth paragraphs of Article 51 of the law on the completion of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society were incompatible with the Constitution. Therefore, by means of the proposed law and the proposed government amendments, the government incorporates into the law the same way of evaluating the property transformation of the excluded shares or assets as was known by the Property Change Act. This is the value determined on the basis of the opening balance or estimated value on 1.1.1993. It also lays down the same conditions for the purchase of shares or shares as was known by the above-mentioned Property Transformation Act - this is a 50% discount to the extent that an internal purchase has been made and the possibility of a repurchase. In addition to the proposed amendment to paragraph 9 and the new paragraphs 10 to 12 of Article 51 of the Act on the Closure of Property and Privatisation of Legal Persons owned by the Slovenian Development Company, the Government gives companies which have excluded from the property conversion the assets that have been the subject of denationalisation the possibility to recover those assets, under conditions laid down by the Property Change Act - in terms of value and 50 % discount. This means that the SRD or the Slovenian Development Company will repurchase or invest them in the company as a real investment. This actual deposit, issued shares or a new deposit, shall be taken over by the SRD, which shall then be offered to shareholders or repurchase shareholders. To summarise: the proposed law aligns the law on the closure of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society with the Constitution, as stipulated by the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferry Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, Representative of the Secretariat. You received a report on the multiple treatment of the bill on the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body, dated 20.9 This is essentially a synthetic report. [[..]] All I would say is that the Committee followed the opinions of the secretariat in particular. He took into account most of the amendments made by the Government, including on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat, and taking further account of the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the last reading, we found that such a way of dealing with amendments as drafted by the government and some other amendments that were given would be somewhat imprudent. The Committee therefore decided: for the first time, on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat, to propose the deletion of Article 1 and to transpose this text mutatis mutandis in Article 2, so as to amend Article 51, paragraph 4. And he did bring together all the amendments, except for one proposed by the government, that is, all the amendments to Article 2 under the new comprehensive amendment you have in the report I mentioned and in the review of the amendments. If this amendment to Article 2 is adopted, then in fact the majority of the other amendments become irrelevant, which is also stated in the review and would not repeat this. I therefore propose that we go after this review to adopt the amendment proposed by the Committee, an amendment of the government supported by the Committee to Article 3. On the basis of the opinion of the secretariat, which is new, allow me to submit an amendment to the amendment to the draft law to Article 2. The amendment would read as follows: 'In the amendment of the Committee on the Economy in Article 2, the word 'ninth' in Article 51, paragraph 15, shall be replaced by 'not tabled in the manner of 11'.".. End of story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Kelemina will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Dear representatives of the parliamentary groups here you are. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Group of the Social Democratic Party will not support this proposal. Let me briefly explain the reasons for our disagreement with this proposal. Indeed, we agree with the decision of the Constitutional Court and agree that certain articles in this Act should be amended, i.e. Article 51 or certain paragraphs. However, from the examination of the material, we have found that, in fact, the government, in fact, has not only used what has been required of the Constitutional Court, which was unconstitutional, but that it has actually taken advantage of the opportunity and has changed this article and the law by interfering with rights which are not the same as those adopted by the Property Act. These rights have substantially extended to new shareholders, to some new companies, by, of course, being entitled to a 50% discount in the purchase of these shares. In addition, this debt can be repaid first, of course, with a repayment of 20% immediately and then in four years after 25%. In short, extraordinary great benefits are granted to these modern shareholders, including the questionable price. Our assessment is that we simply believe that these shares or shares that are to be sold or sold by the development company in order to sell either to the PID or to the open market, which, of course, could be significantly higher and these new shareholders, the new owners are certainly in a privileged position in view of the situation at the start of ownership. In short, we have also proposed our amendments, but they have not been accepted. Because we believe that this is again a new way of owning, to facilitate the ownership of the remaining property, which is still in the development society, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u97	Good-bye, everyone. Allow me to express the opinion of New Slovenia on the law we are enacting. Clearly, we are entering the final phase of ownership, and the bill-maker, the government, is trying, in an inappropriate way, to resolve the approach to this property. We have also drawn attention to this in the debate and also in relation to the amendments tabled, the amendments tabled; they follow the Constitutional Court's decision in a consistent manner. Indeed, it is necessary to put everything in its original source state, i.e. the one laid down by the Property Transformation Act. Therefore, this discount may only be given to those who have held this place in this initial position, otherwise positions may change and are unconstitutional, unsymmetrical. Such proposals, of course, cannot be supported in New Slovenia, so we have also tabled amendments that deal with this issue with dignity and prevent this national assembly from meeting when it is necessary to amend the law because of the Constitutional Court. So if our amendments are not adopted, then, of course, a clear message that this New Slovenia law will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Since there are no more representatives of the parliamentary groups who would like to present their opinion, I give the floor to the Members and Members. Since there were no written submissions to the debate, the debate on possible debates is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision-making on individual articles of the bill. We are moving to a debate, and we will hold a debate on the basis of the amendment review of 26.9.2001. You have also received an amendment from Mr Ferri Horvat, who has already presented it. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, which is proposed by the Committee on the Economy, with a note that it is linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 which fully replaces the text of Article 51 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Due to the lack of presence, voting was not successful for the first time. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are nearby! We're in the decision-making phase. I respectfully ask you to join us so that we can vote with effect. The vote on the amendment to Article 1 will be held a second time and will therefore indirectly establish the presence of the Chamber. So this is the second time we are voting on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 32 to 13. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 13.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and to a decision on Article 2 and on the six amendments to this Article, with a note: under 1 there is an amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on the Economy with a footnote. If this amendment is adopted, the other amendments to this Article shall be irrelevant. However, since we have also received an amendment to the amendment of the Committee on the Economy to Article 2, we are obliged to vote first on the amendment to the amendment of the Committee on the Economy, which you have just received on the bench and which is not in the amendment review. However, we will have a discussion earlier on Article 2 on the amendment to the amendment that we have specifically and on the six amendments to Article 2 that are under review. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee, with a note I have already presented that, if adopted, all the other amendments are irrelevant. Under 2 is the amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group of Members. Under 3 is the Government's amendment, noting that the Committee has taken it under order number 1 in its amendment. Under 4 is the amendment of the two parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group of Members, under the 5th Amendment of the Government, which is summarized in amendment number 1, and under number 6 is the amendment of the Government, which is not supported by the Committee. So I am putting six amendments and an amendment to the amendment to Article 2 and Article 2 in full. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by Mr Ferri Horvat. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 16. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 of the amendment review, of which the committee is the proposer, by noting that all the other amendments, if adopted, are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. For vote 39, against 16. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, Article 2 has been amended and the other amendments I have previously stated are irrelevant. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, is supported by its mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. For vote 39, against 15. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 3 has been deleted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article because the amendment under Order No 2 becomes irrelevant due to the adoption of the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 36 votes against 11. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 8. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. As no, I ask the representative of the secretariat whether the amendments tabled may undermine the mutual compliance of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. For vote 39, against 16. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government and Mrs Ogrinchev for their cooperation. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on radiotelevision of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite a government representative to join us. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] Do representatives of parliamentary groups want to speak about the bill? The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Social Democratic Party Group we support the law on RTV, as it has all the solutions created by the RTV and the RTV trade unions, which were supported in the form of amendments by the parliamentary group to the law with a large majority also in the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that it is possible, on the basis of these solutions, to eliminate the most protruding anomalies that have hindered the work of the RTV public institution, and we hope that the new leadership will be able to restore a good image of this media house with the cooperation of experts and trade unions. I would like to add, however, that we do not support the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 7, which seeks to reintroduce nepotism or family management and the performance of tasks. We believe that all those who have ambitions to work in this public office should decide what they want to be and what they want to do. It is not appropriate for such family relationships to be formed in the public service of RTV. It is therefore necessary to avoid solutions that have never proved to be positive in the long term and that is why we will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since no member group wants to present its opinion anymore, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written discussions and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.9.2001. In the debate, I am putting an amendment to Article 7 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, but the Committee has not identified itself as supporting the initial amendment of the Government by amending the amendment, which adds a new second paragraph. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. As I have already mentioned, we will vote against this amendment, because this amendment institutionalises precisely such solutions, which are most controversial and inappropriate, as they establish family links between key actors and contractors and the world. It is logical that, because of family relations, better contracts can be concluded and adopted - in terms of "better and different decisions" than they would have been or would have been normal. In this case, therefore, the market will not work and competition will be limited in some way and this amendment, and such an amendment allows for a system-wide subjective assessment in fact, and for that reason some will have distinct advantages. Let's say they have a public office in the world or other functions of the godfather. I am also interested in how many families actually affect this solution, or I am interested in who are the ones for whom the government has proposed such a solution or amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u103	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I must say that on the committee, when we discussed this proposal, this amendment was the heart of the debate. This is because we believe our secretariat, which has said that this 7th article's dictatorship is legally controversial, which is why we supported the government's amendment, which, in my opinion and also in the opinion of everyone else on the Committee, forgive the expression, which is a bit lame. For the government has slightly corrected its amendment, but the government or the Ministry of Culture in the media law, in Article 57, has identified exactly who are the immediate members of the family. We did not think that what the government had proposed was really the kind of amendment that we would like to make, but the secretariat is sure that this amendment corrects the fact that Article 7 is legally indisputable. What do you do now as a Member? Whether to vote such a law, which will have this basis for anyone to interfere with it, will raise a complaint, the courts will judge accordingly, it is likely that this article will be deleted and there will be no restrictions on the people who are making the fate of RTV Slovenia. That is why we thought it wise, and therefore we also propose to the National Assembly that the Government's amendment to this article be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 30 to 19. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 9. Under order number 1, the amendment of the Committee, noting that, as long as this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2, of which the applicant is the Government and is not supported by his mother's working body, is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment under 1 has been adopted and under 2 has thus become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 10, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and, on the basis of Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat whether the amendments adopted may undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 14. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Representatives of the secretariat, Mrs Bitenchevi, thank you very much. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, it is a secondly defensive proposal for the National Programme of Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a national programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since there is no representative of the government, I continue and ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sports, who as a parent has considered the proposal of the National Programme - Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Moge. Vice President, Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport on the proposal of the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, second reading. When considering the National Higher Education Programme, we found that the proposal incorporated all the views adopted at the first reading in the National Assembly and that the text submitted had to be corrected because important legislative changes were adopted during the second reading and the law on higher education was supplemented. The secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly has drawn up some specific comments for which the representative at the meeting found that they had already been taken into account in the proposed amendments of the Government and the Committee has therefore supported all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They also supported their comments and proposals for amendments to the HR and the University of Ljubljana. The representatives of the ŠOU wanted to incorporate additional guarantees into the programme: improvement of student standard, accommodation capacity, scholarship arrangements, student diet, suspension of tuition or exceptional study for unemployed students and the emphasis on the role of student organisations in making certain decisions. Together with the University of Ljubljana, they also advocated an emphasis on the role of student sport. Government representatives considered that these cases were already adequately resolved in the laws in force and that it was not appropriate to take them into account in the national programme. However, the Committee has proposed amendments that are solutions to the problems raised by the SGEI and have incorporated them into the text of the programme. I call on Members and Members to adopt the proposals of the National Higher Education Programme at second reading together with the amendments supported or proposed by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will present the opinion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u107	Respectable present, very cordial greeting. Today we have a national higher education programme ahead of us. This is the second consideration of this proposal, but for the first time before us in this composition of the National Assembly. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, to point out some important things that need to be taken into account and implemented in order for our higher education to gain quality and quantity. The task of reaching a high percentage, 20 to 25% of the higher education population, is forcing us to approach the creation of better study opportunities as soon as possible. Our two universities are too large, Ljubljana with almost 49,000 students and Maribor students with about 23,000 students are almost on top of universities by number of students. In comparison, we can take Harvard University, which has 18,000 students. The critical mass of students at our two universities has long been exceeded. That is why we see in the New Slovenia Group that it is the last time for changes in this direction - to have more higher education centres that should be distributed as evenly as possible across Slovenia. So our students will have the opportunity to study closer to home. The cost of students will be reduced to a number of students. As there will not be such a high concentration of students in Ljubljana and Maribor, students will also be younger to reach the student rooms. With a smaller number of students in one place, teaching work will also be easier to obtain in quality. The competitiveness of higher education institutions between themselves and within the institution is essential, as this is certainly crucial, the improvement of the quality of studies. Although the situation in college has improved [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u108	Dear Members and honourable Members, I ask for so much peace that the representative of the Group will be able to present its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u109	Although the situation in colleges has improved, it still happens that the professor does not know all his students at all; that it is difficult for them to access them, that students lose much time by looking for teachers in vain at the hours they are determined to be available to them for conversation. I would also like to point out that although students are well paid for their studies, they do not get all the knowledge they should acquire in lectures and exercises. The competitiveness of such an anomaly would simply not bear. We would also like to point out that the need to bind higher education institutions is necessary, because otherwise it makes it very difficult for students to pass through colleges in the course of their studies. However, there is no regulated option for selecting objects in several departments; it is elsewhere, but not everywhere. The association of colleges with economic activities is also very lame. A diplomat should have a better knowledge of the situation in the economy or in the workplace that awaits him when he becomes employed. Not only will he be a good expert, but he will not be able to use 100 percent of his expertise in practice. We strongly support the Third University of Primorsk. In doing so, we must stress its national importance in the exposed border area and the role of a philological, Slovenianist study in it. The purpose of the university as a teaching - scientific institution is also to develop and enforce the Slovenian language and its terminology in all fields of scientific activity. The implementation of student programmes or parts thereof in a foreign language would be permissible under the conditions laid down in the present law, in order to ensure that the same school programme or its work is carried out in Slovenian at the same time or in advance. Our Group of Members will support the National Higher Education Programme with the amendments. However, I wonder whether the government has provided sufficient funding for its implementation now that it has adopted the 2002 and 2003 budget, that this national programme will not remain just a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go. In the meantime, allow me to convey to you the apology of Minister Lucija Čok and Secretary of State Dr. Peyovnik that you have slightly missed the start due to roadblocks. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. The National Higher Education Programme is a document that provides the basis for the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia by 2005 and 2010. The fundamental objective of the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia is to enable the maximum proportion of the population to obtain quality undergraduate and postgraduate education, which is an essential factor in social, economic and cultural development and the preservation of national identity. The main strategic objectives of the Young Slovenia Party in the field of higher education are appropriately included in the framework of the proposal for a national higher education programme. These are: the share of the working population with higher, higher or postgraduate education increase from 20% in 2001 to 25% in 2005. The share of the population, especially young people, in tertiary education will increase by having around 35 students per 1,000 population in the next decade or by including at least 50% of each generation in different forms of tertiary education. The following objective: to increase the number of places of entry in all tertiary education and to gradually eliminate the restriction of enrolment in most study programmes, to gradually co-finance studies that are carried out in exceptional ways, and to ensure a fully free regular undergraduate studies, to ensure conditions for the integration of higher education into international space, to improve the performance and effectiveness of the postgraduate and postgraduate studies by investing in staff, equipment and premises of higher education institutions, to update the operation and self-check the quality of the study work. Promote links between higher education and the economy and improve and update scholarships and student standards, including staying in student homes. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are aware of the importance of the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia and in no way will we allow the National Higher Education Programme, which is in line with the Youth Slovenia Party programme, to become just a dead letter on paper. We are aware that the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme is only a first step. The second and most important is the implementation of this, which we will take with all our strength in the Young Slovenia Party. We will support the National Programme in the Youth Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. In the DeSUS Group, we followed the consideration of the proposed amendments and initiatives to amend and supplement the National Higher Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia. We are pleased to note that representatives of both universities and students have also actively participated in the work of the parent committee, and have been extremely constructive in working together and have helped to formulate the amendments tabled. The amendments supported and designed by the Committee are aimed at improving the conditions of the study, as well as at improving and enriching the use of students' leisure time, both in the sports and cultural fields. We advocate the freeness of a regular and extraordinary undergraduate study. In particular, the latter is only an excessive material obligation to young exceptional students, who are mostly younger, with lower incomes or perhaps still unemployed. The important principle of lifelong education is also well placed in the national programme. This will be further highlighted in the future. Our Group of Members will support the amendments adopted and tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. We are now moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual chapters of the National Programme proposal. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.9.2001. However, the review does not contain two amendments, namely amendments to II. the section to point 2.3.6 of which the proposer is a group of Members with the first-signed Mr France Puksic, and also an amendment to the II. the section referred to in point 2.3.6.1 of which the proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Mr Rudolf Petan. In the debate, I am putting the preamble and the amendment to the preamble, which is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by the original working body of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the preamble amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Chapter I and the amendment to Chapter I, which is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on Chapter I, this is the introduction and purpose, in full. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that Chapter I has been fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on II. a chapter entitled Objectives of higher education. K II. 21 amendments were tabled and 19 were tabled. One amendment just splits and one is already on the table. I therefore put II to the debate. Chapter: Objectives of higher education and all 21 amendments. Proposal 19 is, in turn, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Committee and the proposer of two proposals for a group of Members with the first signatures, as I have already presented them to you. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First of all, the 21 amendments in order, first of all the amendments to point 2.1.1, of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. There are 45 Members and Members present, which means that we are not in agreement and we have not successfully carried out the vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please join us so that we can make a valid decision, we have several amendments ahead of us. By re-voting the amendment to point 2.1.1 we will also, at the same time indirectly, find a second presence. We shall vote on the amendment to point 2.1.1. the second time. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to point 2.1.1 has been adopted. We're still deciding on the whole point. I'm sorry. [[...]] We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment to point 2.1.2. Anybody want to talk? The amendment is proposed by the committee. Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.3. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.4. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment to 2.1.5. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.6. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.7. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new point 2.1.7.a. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.9. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.2.1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.2.2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a decision on the amendment to 2.2.4.3. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a decision on the amendment to 2.2.4.4. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for new point 2.2.4.6. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.3.1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a decision on the amendment to point 2.3.4. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment to point 2.3.5.1. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment to point 2.3.5.2. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It is time to decide on an amendment that is not in the review. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So, I've only received these two amendments since we're already in the voting phase. However, I am interested in the government's position around these two amendments, so I propose that we suspend the vote and get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I agree. Although we have concluded the debate on everyone else in the second chapter. On the proposal of the Member, I personally agree with this proposal, because the amendment has been tabled on the bench, so that I open the debate on the amendment of the Group of Members, whose first-signed Mr Franz Pukšič. Then we shall vote on the amendment to point 2.3.6. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u117	Procedural also on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. We've invested, too. The two amendments have been properly tabled, but because of the technical complications of copying, they obviously did not arrive before the Members. That's why I suggest you take 10 minutes off to get rid of this technical stuff.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u118	You've tabled the amendments to what chapter?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u119	Chapter 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u120	Period?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u121	2.3.4.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u122	We're over it. Mr Drobnič, we will wait for the amendments to come to the bench while we hold a debate on the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr France Pukšič. To point 2.3.6. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The amendment to point 2.3.6 has been tabled for one basic reason, which of course applies to the whole area of the Republic of Slovenia, that the university centres also need to maintain and strengthen the network of study centres and allow the creation of their new units. So allow the possibility of creating their new units anywhere in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's also in line with or in line with the Minister's announcements at the hearing, if I remember a particular detail when she talked about higher education or university work, I don't know exactly about fishing in Scandinavia. This, of course, makes it easy to create these new units by city or place in Slovenia. The explanation is, of course, written in the case of Ptuj for a logical reason, because I come from this area, but I could certainly write such explanations for any place or place in the Republic of Slovenia. So the explanation is partial, but the amendment is global. That is why, of course, I propose that you support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The Minister, Mrs Lucia Chok, wishes to be defined. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u125	The Government does not oppose this amendment; it believes that it already defines the last sentence in Article 2.3.6. He doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u127	Chairman, thank you very much. I also think that the amendment is natural, so kind that it's worth supporting. However, the explanation is such, at least in the second part, that it does not last. [[The voice from the bench.]] Yes, because in Ptuj we have a university for agriculture, when we have one in Ljubljana, the other in Maribor - I don't think this country can afford it. And if this explanation is narrowed down or even taken away, it is also true for all places in Slovenia, that it will be necessary to watch in the long term that something in Dolenjska will grow, and perhaps something in Koroška, Gorenjci, Primorci and Štajerci, and Kranjci, forgive the expression, but we already have these words.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.3.6. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's the same time as II. I am also opening a discussion on the amendment you already have on your hands, which is in point 2.3.6.1, of which is a group of Members with first-signed Rudolf Petan. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, there's been quite a bit of a mix-up with this amendment today. Nevertheless, the amendment I have tabled is not an empty shot, or perhaps a search for something that is not possible. In fact, in the chapter on the creation of new higher education institutions, I propose an amendment to the establishment of a public institution called the regional higher - and a higher education centre based in Celje. And let me explain why I used that name. In fact, in these days a letter of intent is signed in the municipalities gravitating to the Celje region, or if we call it the Celje region, somehow accession, to ensure conditions for the development of higher and higher education in the region. On the basis of this letter of intent, a public institution for regional higher education and a higher education centre based in Celje would then be established. So it's not like it's an empty shot or an empty trip, but it's got some solid foundation. And given that we are talking a lot about regionalisation of Slovenia, but unfortunately we are only thinking about some administrative regionalism, but much less about something else, and in this case I was thinking mainly about regionalisation in terms of education, schools. The fact is that in Celje there are already college and higher education units, but this is an action at the level of the municipalities of this wider area, that this is somehow institutionalised and that there is some coordination between all these institutions that are already operating in this area. What would be achieved by this, I explained, presented in an explanation that is a little wider than usual in individual amendments, so that I would no longer explain it myself. Of course I know what that means. I also admit that in this proposal of the programme there is already a lot about what I am talking about, already written, I agree with this, but too much in general. And since I mentioned that this is a concrete action at the level of the municipalities of the wider Celje area, I think this amendment has been put in place, and on the basis of this, as I have written down, I have tabled this amendment. And, of course, I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u131	Well, I'd just let you add something else. You are probably well aware that in September 1999 a law on coherent regional development was passed in this National Assembly and 32 municipalities of the Savini statistical region in the regional development programme, which is now in the reception phase, in the final stage of adoption, have also given the highest emphasis to human resources. In this regard, this initiative, or objective, has also been created as the objective of this development programme and in the area of human resources, to form a regional higher - and higher education centre. Here 32 municipalities of the Savinij statistical region participate in this project, all supported or supported by this regional programme and this letter of intent, the establishment of a regional higher education centre, headed by two leading municipalities, Velenje and Celje, of which there is no point in losing words of economic importance in this part of Slovenia. I stress that this is an extremely high consensus of 32 municipalities in the Celje statistical region, from the border with Croatia to the Austrian border. I am sure that everyone who comes from this area will understand, but that the importance of this regional development programme and the regional higher and higher education centre is also understood by the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Certainly in view of the intentions of this national programme, which I think is good, including these adopted amendments and so on. So, my full support for this national programme. Although I once again believe that it will be difficult to provide funds for a very extensive programme, given what the government has proposed. But, well, this will be explained by the Minister, and she may explain how she will come to be. To rely on this amendment, which my colleague has proposed and which I have signed here, the full intention of this national programme is that, of course, it would be possible to establish new public institutions in this area. I don't think it's that controversial. However, something else in this open chapter would now be asked by the Minister if she could.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u134	My apologies, Mr Kelemina, only the debate on the amendment with the first-signed Rudolf Petan has been explicitly opened.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u135	Is it not possible to discuss Chapter 2.3.6.1 in this context of this amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u136	We are discussing this amendment explicitly right now. The debate was open at the beginning, and no one volunteered. However, since we were getting these amendments on the bench, I explicitly allowed the debate to take place now in this part because we have already decided on almost most of the amendments II. Chapters.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u137	Well, look, here, well, this amendment is linked to the whole section 2.3.6.1. With a whole chapter. In fact, he's kind of leaning on him, tying up, and so on. Here, in the first sentence, it says first, what I know is that we're not just going to set up these institutions, and so on. Now, in this paragraph, Slovenia is also somehow divided into three new university centres. And I ask about good, because now the intention of this amendment is to set up some new centres, although not as university, but as higher education and higher education, which is certainly positive, and I think that this national programme will allow it. [[...]] As they imagine, for example, the division of Slovenia into some areas for the establishment of a possible fourth or even fifth university, where there would also be some division according to the number of inhabitants of some European guidelines and already existing organisations in Europe. I was just curious because I was really interested in the Minister's idea of explaining, in the context of this amendment, whether it is for the intention in Slovenia to establish the Fourth and Fifth Universities or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. This afternoon I received this amendment from my fellow Members. The introduction to this chapter, to which it is inserted, says 2.3.6.1, "The creation of new higher education institutions cannot be consistent, but must be accompanied by care for their quality." In principle, the National Higher Education Programme can always be a good opportunity for Members and Members to take advantage of the possibility, and in a document that is, as a rule, also the basis for laws and for state money, to put in place solutions that will be good in terms of us Members as representatives of all the people. In principle, I have no reason to oppose the amendment, so that the princely city will also be given a regional higher - and a higher education centre. But at least I have a few questions. The first is: it would be much better for fellow Members to prepare such a text a little earlier. At least to the committee where this was discussed very deeply. I have in mind a multi-annual, almost ten-year effort to create the so-called Third University. This is the University of Primorska. This is undoubtedly a major national project. I think that even in this text, in this material, we get the final basis for him to come to life, although in some ways he is already living. The amendment drafted here by fellow Members of Parliament from most parties - but I do not think there are any LDS Members and the United Kingdom, which I do not know by chance because I do not know whether it has been offered. So, I have two questions. Who will be the founder of this institution? A public institution shall also be established. The text speaks very clearly about the third Slovenian University: its founder will be the Republic of Slovenia. I greatly appreciate the engagement of the mayors, and my colleague Sušnik is among them, and some of them when you wrote a letter of good intentions, and if the state decides to do so, it should be made more clear what this institution is, who is its founder, from which resources it will be fed, whether it is a private institution, municipality or state. It would be good to have the answers to these questions. Otherwise, this text, which will be written, will be just an opportunity for political articulation and will have no weight in real life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please. Mr. Petty Officer, I'm sorry, I thought you raised your hand earlier. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. So, I would partly like to try to respond to my esteemed colleague, Mr Sponik. I agree with him. After all, there was nothing that was said that would not have had its own support. I just want to make something up to you. This programme, which we have presented very quickly here, is not a competition for two or a future third university, we are not talking about a fourth university, but rather a higher and higher education centre. In fact, we know that we also have higher and higher education. Mr Sušnik also mentioned the economic strength of this wider area, but he used the name statistical region, the statistical region. Those who will finance this will see it if they are interested enough and that this letter of intent will find its support on the local councils as well. But, as it appears now, this support will find its place and, of course, from there everything will be built. The fact is, if this happens, we will face the National Higher Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia in one way or another, and we will probably have to coordinate in this context. In fact, it is not possible to create a higher education centre in Slovenia or in a country. We are all aware of this that the path is long and hard and painful, but it must be started at the lower steps so that we can get to the tenth floor; without the first, second, tenth and fifteenth steps it cannot reach even the fiftieth. So we're aware of that. That is why I have said that I agree with Mr Spokonik's thinking. But I added only these additional thoughts and explanations that it is not a fourth university, because the third is probably already defined and we support it, but it is an initiative, as it is called, from a base not to use any other term; that this is not some administrative solution to this problem to solve it in the cabinet, and we will say that we will have it in Cele or anywhere else, but that it is an initiative of these residents, citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who feel the need for education and progress. And in this sense, I would like to ask you to understand this amendment and also the initiative given by the mayors, which now receives its basis in signing the accession to this letter of intent. Please take this in this context and you understand that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I support my colleague Sponik that these are so important things that it would suggest that they should be addressed at a committee meeting where the debate lasted more than five hours, and that so "ad hoc" acceptance, such as here, is extremely lacking. I would like to say that we are now in second reading and that until the third reading, the chapter is open for amendment. In view of what the Members will say at home from Dolenjska, what the Members will say at home from Koroška, what the Members will say at home from Prekmurje and from other places, if we in the national programme, which is not a legal act for the establishment of certain public institutions, what we now establish in this act is a university there, a university there, a university there and a university there. That's why I'd say the following. This text, which is here, is not as high-quality as the previous one, which we have adopted and does not show acceptance. I would say to the proposers who have tabled this amendment that they should make little contact with the Ministry, in accordance with the options the State has, but then submit it themselves or perhaps the Ministry will also submit this amendment. It seems to me, however, to my fellow Members and colleagues, that this amendment would be more of a point 2.3.6.2, because it does not speak of universities, but of centres, higher education and higher education, if you look at it. And I'd fit in this chapter. And it would be good, respected colleagues and colleagues - I apologize, this matter went through the first hearing even in the previous term, there are a lot of new people here and for the first time a national programme is adopted, all these matters are open - that by the time this act is taken up, you will be a little more careful and that you will be putting forward these amendments, that we will really prepare them on the committee as we can, because we have always found a common language, and that then through a procedure without great pain, we will find solutions that are useful for this country and for its citizens. Because of this, my respectable colleague Rudolf Petan, I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you. I'll be like a replica because otherwise I can't explain it, but there won't be a replica. I would only like to tell my respectable colleague Mohet that we have now prepared this, because now it is something concrete. It is said that the letter of intent and discussion is on the councils of the congregation, so there is something behind that this is not a pure trip into the unknown. And that is why this has now come, now that something is already concrete on the ground. In that sense. Please take this. Besides, I accept a lot of what you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, Mrs. Lucia Chok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I accept the glove actually thrown here to open this debate. We are experiencing many individual interventions and I know what Mr Petan meant by this. I also welcome that the municipalities are working towards this new concept of the academic network, especially because we have already stated in the text itself, as you recall, that "it is necessary to consider possibilities for the co-establishment of local communities when new universities are being established". This text was already in the amendments. In addition, amendments 2.1.5, 2.3.6, 2.3.6.1 and 2.3.6.2 have already enabled this decentralisation of higher education, but I must tell you that in this country we have the authorities, procedures and laws governing the formation of each new higher education institution. These procedures are well known, and when this process arises, it is understandable that the final stage will be reached in the National Assembly. This will happen with every new initiative. This will also happen with the University of Primorska. You will confirm or reject the creation decree here. This means that it is impossible to define any location in advance. These locations are not only in Styria, they are in Dolenjska, they are in Gorenjska. And that's why it's impossible to define a location in the future. We cannot close this possibility of creating new higher education centres anywhere, as defined in Article 2.3.6.2. That is why the government does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u149	Well, there's something else I'd like to add. Look, I've forgotten before, it's not just the municipalities of the Savini statistical region, it's also the coordinated activity of the Economic and Regional Chamber of Commerce. It's exactly what the Minister said. By introducing this desire for the establishment of a higher and higher education centre into the regional programme, there has already been operationalisation, so that now, at this point - I think - I have information that more than half of the 32 municipalities have also adopted a letter of intent. There will also be a partial reply to Mr Podobnik. In summary, Article 2 of this letter, where municipalities, regional chambers, crafts and economics, undertake to provide the necessary conditions for the development of new higher and higher education institutions and educational programmes and higher and higher education in the region by providing for spatial and human resources conditions, conditions for educational work, conditions for scientific research, conditions for study and residence. And more of these things, which I would not now mention, are listed here. I think it expresses the clear will and willingness of this region to do something in a material, financial sense for the establishment of this centre to take place. I would therefore appeal that it nevertheless demonstrates support and I ask all Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. My debate on this amendment may be a summary of colleagues who have been before me, but in the sense that it is not possible to establish any regional centres with the amendments. We have been waiting in the pomurice space for several years to receive a higher education programme on the basis of the provisions also presented by the Minister. And this path contained many different initiatives and letters, as well as meeting the conditions that have been prescribed for this to happen, but this is only one programme. In order to create a regional centre with one amendment, however, I find it totally unacceptable. If we need a letter of intent, let's break it off, and in two days, I will collect signatures from all municipalities in Pomurje to establish a regional center. However, the matter stops at a time when I no longer believe in those pious desires and readiness, how one and the other chambers will cooperate, when one and the other conditions, which also have financial backgrounds and are often very difficult, will be no more, including local communities, because it is normal for the State to build schools in the way that it is established in that country. And on the one hand, it is not those who have taken the initiative and agreed to provide the conditions that they will be able to implement financially, which means that there is another story behind. Let me repeat what I said in the beginning: the way of setting up higher education institutions or centres in this way is completely wrong and the state can't function in this way at all. We are also interested in a number of programmes in our country, but it has to come along a path that also has other analyses included: who will visit him, how many who will teach; these things are not easy. In the past, I visited an autonomous province, where everyone who signed up ended up. That's the only thing that makes us feel bad is that we get revenge at the end. And we shouldn't afford it. Of course I won't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion, then Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Juban for a moment. Comrade Sušnik has now given me the contents of the letter of intent to ensure conditions for the development of higher vocational and higher education in the region. I think that if we look at the provision of the next paragraph, this is 2.3.6.2, which says that "after 1994, legislation also allows the creation and functioning of independent higher education institutions, which, when directly connected with the economy or social activities, can complement the study offer and independent higher education institutions are also in our situation a real form" and so on. This letter of intent fully belongs to the next set. The contents are entirely covered by Section 2.3.6.2.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. I will replicate to Mr Juban and tell him that his comments are certainly weighty, but also understandable, because they are not such simple things. However, I will say that with such skepticism as he cultivates it, as well as exchange, perhaps someone else there from Pomurje - Murska Sobota will never have any center, because it is easy to go into action and work and do, and demand, and expect, and then there is something. And with that, you'll never achieve anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I was a little scared when I went into action for this amendment to get exactly what we just heard. So, I'm going to try to overhear some things, and maybe a little bit more in a mild form to understand them. Once again, as a replica of what Mr Juban has said, he may have further explained that it is not a matter of competition for universities. We know that the University of Maribor is close, and Ljubljana is almost halfway: it is not about competition, but about complementing the programmes that are at both universities. We know that in the last period we have - or we will establish - many professional schools at different levels. And that's the point of what we dream about in Cel. It's not the fourth university or the third. That's the first thing to take into account. And then certainly the discussion will be easier. I cannot agree with this much, with this autocratic claim that we cannot establish a school institution with one amendment, something like that. I agree. I agree with this, because even if this amendment were accepted and incorporated into the national programme, this is far from us establishing this institution. Far from that, because we know what the procedures are for stopping one regular d.o.o. or the S.p.A., let alone such an institution. So this fear is completely out of line. By the way, I would only suggest that in this House, with one amendment and perhaps even worse prepared than this one - if anyone thinks that he is ill-prepared - we have solved even worse things and more, I will say, important for Slovenia, as it is, for example, because we would only enter and not have any executive power. This must be taken into account. But when I first said that I was afraid that we'd go into that little thing right now. That's what it says, if she has a village next door, then I have to have one. I'm a little scared and respected colleagues from Prekmurje, and I told you that if you had a good program or something like that, I also supported your programs, regardless of whether I came from Styria. That's why it hurt me a little bit that I won't use some awkward expression when the repaint repaint crawls. Because I don't want to. I really don't want to be politicized, and if anyone understood it now, I apologize for not wanting such controversy to arise and then start as members of the various regions of certain projects to act or oppose each other. No, gentlemen! I represent the view that what is good for one end of Slovenia is good for the other end. We all have more to do with this. In this context, I see this, and so this amendment should be understood. I know your concerns are also justified, but sometimes it's a matter to begin with. If not here, secondly, you're always somewhere in the beginning. And you can always say, listen, you have nothing yet, but you need to start. In this sense, we see this and once again, this is not a competition for the existing university, but it is a complement to programmes that are not available at the moment or that can be poorly covered. In this sense, take this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We don't trade in Prekmurje, and we're not skeptics either, but we're looking for some sort of order, we respect some of the procedures. I do not object to Cel having a regional centre, one way or another, if necessary and if it meets the conditions. But I said it wasn't a good way. If we had to write, draw, and apologize for having received some higher education program, if we were skeptics or if we were to throw it away, that would not be the case. Of course, we also advocate for others and try to arrange and apologize with the competent services in the country, to them and to ourselves, because if we were as much as some of us wanted, we might have a program that would not have listeners. For Celje, maybe it's different than what I respect. But under the conditions under which it is established, it is clear and we must respect in some way. This can't be an amendment, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri Malovrew, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I will support this amendment, given that Celje is the third largest Slovenian city, that this type of education is already taking place in Celje with the help of higher education and other institutions in our area, and the third that we have now had many round tables at the international trade fair on this issue, how inadequate education is in this direction and that this matter is missing. But there is something I must warn you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. We have already adopted some national programmes here in this National Assembly. The railway national programme takes place 12 percent, although the Secretary of State said that 15 percent, and then I counted it today, that it is much less and is happening according to the available financial resources. However, since we know how to cut hair with us, and this is very successful, it will be possible, even if the willingness of the economy were to cover this area, someone will say, "there is no such thing in the national programme, but we cannot do so". It is therefore right to support this amendment, although it has come late, although it is not the best signed, but then it could somehow be removed. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban wants to replicate Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. Juban! I certainly agree with you in a lot of ways, and you're right. But the national programme is not adopted for today or accepted for yesterday, but is accepted for the future, and all these trends and expectations that are written in this national programme show that the actual number of students will increase in the future. And what's going on in this love of ours now. They're taking advantage of all the countryside here with high rents. Since they have nowhere to live, they must study and so forth. Why don't we also make it possible in remote places for our young generation to study in their home, home, without student homes. Does building student homes, repressing, one way or another cost this country nothing? They don't cost anything? How much they cost. And if this were decentralised, my assessment of the quality might even improve. When they're pounding there, did you ever go to see how many they're loaded into one class - 200, 300, I don't know, 500 students, they don't have anywhere to write, you know, on their knees or even have to stand, and they don't have anywhere to write notes and so on. This is an unsustainable situation at our designated universities. And I think it is necessary to define in the national programme, in view of future expectations, of course and all, with all the arguments supported to allow all young people to have approximately equal access to higher education. It's not possible now. And that's why I stand for, not three universities, as it is written here, but maybe four or five. Why not? Why not be part of a university in the Murska Sobota area? We don't need a philosophy university in Murski Sobota. But we can have another university, which can also be, say, three, four, five programs, very advanced, because every day new knowledge emerges in the world. And a whole series of new skills that need to be actually started in our own way. That's a fact. That's a fact, and we won't be able to go through it. That is why I am advocating the decentralisation of Slovenian universities and will also support this decentralisation with such small amendments, which are now in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Diaci, then Mr Gaber and Mrs Lucia Chok want to explain. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. I'm going to support this amendment, too, because I signed it. A lot of things have been said, both on the one hand and on the other, and I have to admit, he's been drinking a lot of water. However, I would like to say, Mr Juban, as far as the road is concerned, you are very right, only in us is it usually happens that we go one way, but the way from the bottom drawer to the top of the desk is usually very long. And I think there's a lot of people in this room who will know what I'm talking about, even though I'm a little metaphorically trying to show this in fact. In short, this is not a competition for universities, because the higher and higher education centre unfortunately cannot compete with university programmes. However, it would be very good to have this competition, because then a lot of quality would have improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, I agree, and this is basically also written in a very long time in this written national higher education programme, which we are dealing with only today in second reading, that a network of post-secondary education in this country needs to be decentralised. Moreover, this process for all those who know about it is already under way. We have already made it possible for several thousand students and students to study closer to home, and so is the case, and this must be the direction of development further. And of course, from here on out, stories begin. I am not so sure that Slovenia is mature for the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh universities. I think she is mature enough to seriously, with all her powers, very carefully open the third university in Slovenia. I'm not sure we're really working hard enough for this, but this is another story. But I support it to open as soon as possible. From here on out, I do not believe that anywhere in Slovenia the situation has matured as far for the fourth university as it has matured in Koperska and Novogorski. Therefore, I would be careful about speaking on the subject of a larger number of universities. However, I support the idea of establishing higher education and higher education centres; this is an essentially different thing, a substantively different thing. And in Celje, let me put it straight - of course, you've probably already talked about this, I apologize for not being here at the beginning - we have already agreed, in Celje, in fact, in the whole region, on an agreement on the so-called statistical Savini region to set up such a centre. The letter of intent is at the reception stage in the congregations, in the councils of the congregation, and more so, the decision to establish is already being made. We'll set it up. We'll set it up ourselves, for starters. But what we are interested in, and I think that it is also a matter of agreement between this national assembly, is this: I expect that public finances - that these centres will be supported in particular to be able to prepare new programmes, to prepare a human resources structure that will enable such institutions to function in a real way also through public finances - so I expect, perhaps now in response, and certainly by the third reading of the national programme, the answer to this question by the ministers, namely a positive response that means where there is evidence that there is real power and needs to do so are available, so to support such centres, which are not to be established by the State; it seems to me that this is not the most intelligent approach. However, if the National Assembly decides differently and is supposed to establish them, then it seems to me that it is, however, more substantially fair, that by the third reading, we find that it is necessary - it seems necessary - and now I improvise - to think about something like this not only in Celjeska [[This is what Velenje, Celje and a bunch of municipalities do together in the area, this center that I was talking about earlier.]] But it's also necessary in the new town's end. My friend Puksic believes that even in the ptujska, I will not go this way myself. However, this discussion already shows that a more serious discussion is needed before we write a single centre into the national programme. And if we agree to support the opening of such centres at the University of Primorsk, and we will publicly support them, then if we go further than the principle position, let us know where we will support them. That's why he needs, I think, the ministry needs time to the third hearing. I will therefore not support this in this text. I think this Pukšič's amendment is speaking, summarizing what I have been talking about, and it seems to me that more than writing down which will be precisely open, because there must also be a local interest to open up, to get this commitment, to be financially supported by those who will be set up after some reflection and coordination with the ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lucia Chok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u169	I'll be shorter because my colleague Gaber's already said a lot. I would only inform the esteemed National Assembly that we are preparing a draft or proposal for a new network of higher education and higher vocational education for professional treatment this year. And I can also argue that the index that is intended for higher education in 2002 is, if I'm not mistaken, 120 or so close. Well, it's supported enough to make it happen. However, new needs, new situations, as well as new programmes in the accession documents to the European Union, will also arise if we take, for example, the new ones. agriculture, require a recast of these programmes. And because of the renovation of these programs, we will be saving together the high school network and the network of higher schools. And then it will really show exactly where these centers are and, of course, if we were invited, we would also bring this consideration to the National Assembly. Just a word about the creation of new universities. I'd say it's at least 15 years in Primorsk, and as you can see, it's not that simple. For if it were simple, both the creation decree and the founding documents and the evaluation in the world of higher education would already be on the table. It takes time and a lot of documents to prove quality. But I think we're on the right track and that this process will soon be near its end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Let me get back to you. To point 2.3.6.1 we have now held a debate on the amendment, of which a group of Members with a first-signed Rudolf Petan is the proponent. Then there is the government's amendment to this same point and there is another amendment on the table ahead of us, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, so that we will now discuss the amendment to 2.3.6.1 of which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, and then we will decide on all three amendments. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to decision-making. Would you like a word, Mr. Petty Officer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain our amendment to point 2.3.6.1. At the same time, of course, I ask what is now with Amendment 2.3.4 because it is also under this item - whether we consider it or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u172	To be considered and voted on. Unfortunately, we have already passed point 2.3.5 when we received the message that this amendment was also tabled, so we will have to return. But since we were already at Amendment 2.3.6.1 and another amendment came to this point, which you were proposing, we also allowed Mr Petan to discuss, because the amendment had also come to the table of Members only recently, and the amendment of the government had been reviewed to this point, so I would like to conclude this set of discussions and then we are voting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much, once again, for your explanation. Allow me to briefly explain the amendment that we have tabled, thus supplementing the text, so that universities or universities in Primorsk need to be added national importance, because it is exposed, and also in a way that is a philological Slovenian study. So the university will also play the role that we think in New Slovenia that it is necessary to play it. In the long term, therefore, it also ensures the preservation of Slovenian language and awareness in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. I must say that there was also a debate on the Slovenian language in the committee, where we have discussed this national programme for several hours, and it has been ensured that in the third reading a text will be drawn up which, with amendments that are possible, will consolidate this role in this respect. We, too, have already gone there to address this point, and unfortunately we were no longer able to formulate certain supplements. However, as far as the amendment to point 2.3.6.1 is concerned, I would like to say that we cannot prescribe the national programme to a university which has autonomy in terms of adopting programmes, in terms of setting up staff and the like, unless we want to violate the autonomy of the university, which I would not dare to do. That is why, my colleague, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment in that sense. But I support him in a substantive way. This university will also be a defender of Slovenia at that border and the speeds will probably also be done in its role, and this part will then be part of the act establishing the university, not the national programme. We or the government, by order, or we by law, will deal with it. That's when you get support in the act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr Moze has already taken most of the things I intended to say myself. I am interested in one more thing that Mr Moge has not mentioned, and this is about this amendment. It says "university or universities," that's plural form, and it's not clear to me if I'm being completely honest.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. I'm sorry, I closed the debate. We will first decide on the amendment to point 2.3.6.1 of which is a group of Members with first-signed Mr Rudolf Petan. We therefore vote on this amendment to point 2.3.6.1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 29. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now moving to a vote on the amendment to the same point, 2.3.6.1, of which the New Slovenia Group of Members is the proponent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also deciding on the third amendment, which is under review on page 7, of which the Government is proposing. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We therefore go back to the amendment to point 2.3.4, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members and is on the list you have recently received. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 29. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the amendment to point 2.3.4 has not been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to point 2.3.7. That's what you got on the bench, too. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 32. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We therefore voted on all amendments to the II. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 We still have to decide on the II. the whole chapter. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I'm guessing it's II. Chapter fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on III. the chapter entitled "Study, scientific, research and artistic fields of national importance". Since no amendments have been tabled to this chapter, I am opening a debate on the whole chapter. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a full chapter decision. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I'm guessing it's III. Chapter fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on IV. Chapter - These are activities necessary for development and effective work in higher education. K IV. Five amendments, which are on pages 7 and 8, and also partially 9 of the amendments, have been tabled in section 4 or point 4 of your review. Someone wants to discuss the amendments and the IV. the whole chapter? Since no, we are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to point 4.2. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to point 4.4. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 4.6. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the two amendments to point 4.7. - it's an amendment to the government's amendment and then the government's amendment. First, we vote on an amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment was accepted. We're still deciding on the government's under-two amendment. We're voting. There are 45 of us present. I think that there are more of us in the Chamber, so I respectfully ask that in the second vote on the amendment under order number two on page nine, we conduct a valid vote on the amendment of the Government. Let's vote next time! We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the last amendment in chapter 4, paragraph 4.10. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on chapter four in full. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that chapter 4 has been fully adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I shall make the fifth chapter and one amendment to this chapter, to point 5.1. The amendment is proposed by the committee. Anybody want to talk? Since no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 5.1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the fifth chapter as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that Chapter 5 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the last, this is chapter six, which we have two amendments to. This includes the amendment to the Government's amendment and the amendment to the Government's amendment and under the Government's two amendments. And the amendment to paragraph 6.4.3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment to the Government's amendment to point 6.4. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the Government's amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment to point 6.4.3, of which the Government is proposing. We're voting. There are 43 of us present. I think there are more of us in the Chamber, so I respectfully ask you for further attention to vote on chapter six in full. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to point 6.4.3 has been adopted. We decide on chapter six as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Chapter 6 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the national programme. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title is fully accepted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision to discuss and decide. "The proposal for a national programme for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I respectfully ask that the proposal concludes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepares it for the third reading, and that we vote successfully and thus end this agenda item. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. Since we voted the second time, we must interrupt the discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 16.58. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. It's 4:58. Since we will vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time, I ask that we meet in the Chamber to carry out the vote in force. Let me give you another warning. In the next vote, when we find out the presence at the same time, this is the third time, and in accordance with Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, sanctions will be imposed on Members and Members who are unduly absent. Since we are already three minutes behind schedule, we will therefore move to a vote on the proposal for a decision to draw up a proposal for a national programme for third reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore decide on that proposal. This is the third time we've detected presence. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister very much for his cooperation. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - First draft of the inspection supervision law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please. Mr. Bohinc, if you don't mind, I'll invite you to the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u180	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for the first examination of the law on inspection. It is one of those laws that constitute a programme of measures in the field of so-called public administration reform, in short, together with the Law on Public Servants, on State administration, on public agencies and other regulations, in particular in the field of local self-government, which forms a whole set of normative changes to enhance the effectiveness of public administration. For the introduction I would say that this is a new law, the Republic of Slovenia so far does not have a systemic regulation in this field. It is therefore a new regulation which systematically regulates the area of inspection or inspection services. This is not a very important innovation in the organisation and functioning of inspection services, but a systematic and legal framework in this area. In particular, I would like to point out that we consider inspection to be an important administrative function, such as ensuring the enforcement of the rules adopted, not least as a feedback from citizens on the functioning of the administration and as an instrument for ensuring the rules and compliance with the rules in general. Just to refresh your memory, the current area of inspections is governed by the applicable administrative law in Articles 85 to 98 of this Act, and certain sectoral laws. The weaknesses that have arisen in connection with the functioning of the inspection services following the 1995 reorganisation, when the municipal inspection services have been transferred to the inspectorates as the bodies in the composition of the ministries and which we want to eliminate by this regulation, are mainly in the lack of regulation of powers, inspection measures, sanctions for obstruction of inspection and the like. In particular, I would like to stress that we are not proposing substantial changes in organisational terms, even though there are several possible views. Basically two. One of these is to organise an independent body outside ministries to include all inspection services. We have not accepted this concept, but we are offering the same solution as in current practice, which means that inspections are organised within the framework of inspectorates as in the body in the composition of ministries. The arguments for this are quite substantial. She's gathered here in explanation. One of the fundamental reasons for this concept is that, however, inspection supervision as an important executive function of the Ministry is linked to the ministry's functioning. In addition to the creation of regulations, the Ministry must ensure their realisation in real life and the instruments of inspection services are certainly one of those that can provide this. The fundamental objective of this regulation, therefore, is to increase the effectiveness of inspection cooperation, to ensure greater consistency of inspection operations, in particular greater transparency, clearer legal regulation of inspection operations and also consistency of inspection activities with the principles introduced in the framework of new public administration legislation, in particular in the field of public servants. Like that. is one of the news that the Head of Inspectorate, the Inspector General or Head of Inspectorate will no longer be a political official, but gain the status of a professional official, a status similar to or corresponding to that established by the Law on Public Servants. It may also be a reminder of the principles introduced by this law, modern European principles such as the principle of the independence of inspectors or the prohibition of anyone affecting their functioning and decisions, the principle of public interest protection and the protection of private interests in inspection procedures. An important new principle is the public principle, which includes the duty of inspectors to inform the public of their findings or actions. This principle is linked to the preventive function and the role of the inspector. And the principle of proportionality, which states that inspections or measures should be carried out only as a last resort after the cancellation of other measures. Perhaps the issue of coordination of inspection services, which has been quite exposed in all these professional discussions, has been quite a point of view. We foresee a special inspection council as a way of formalising inter-departmental cooperation of inspection activities, which should contribute to the fact that the inspection is working together as uniformly and in a coordinated manner. Moreover, with the emphasis on the preventive function that this law exercises, it is also worth mentioning the new regime for the State's liability for damage caused to citizens, as well as the imposition of penalties for obstructing inspection. Let me get this straight. It is essentially a system regulation that, in a transparent way, is effectively introduced or regulated by the current organisation and incorporated into a package of laws that make up changes or reforms in the field of public administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. First, I would apologize to my colleagues and ask them to take the correction of the report into their hands. In fact, you first received a report with the material, and then we prepared a revision of the report, which contains, in addition to the record of what was happening on the Committee, also the views which were definitively harmonised and also adopted in the Committee. This is probably due to the fact that, in fact, out of the 23 content points that the National Assembly will consider at this meeting, there are eight points that we had to deal with in the Internal Policy Committee, and there are also errors in such an increased work. Since the Minister has already said what led the proposer in the drafting of the law, and since you have a report on what was said in the committee, he might point in particular to something that the secretariat has also pointed to. Therefore, in the current regulation or as provided for by the proposal for a law, the inadequacy of the organisation of inspections in other bodies in the composition of ministries and the delegation of powers to carry out inspections to holders of public powers is not cleared. The shortcomings of these forms of organisation are mainly in the frequent overlap between inspection and administrative tasks and, of course, the question of the appellant's authority whether it should be the Minister or the Chairman of the body in the composition. Among the other open issues that the secretariat has pointed to is the question - so, I only mention the crucial - of the incompatibilities of part of the inspector. Then the secretariat believes that there is a need to improve some of the dictions, especially due to, I will say, a more legal expression. However, it is necessary to correct or specify more precisely what is an application that is not filed under the Administrative Procedure Act and what is an application made out of frugality [[This is a term specifically introduced in this law.]] . However, I must say that the Committee has considered this point thoroughly and that from the various discussions the Committee members have come up with a number of proposals for positions that we have developed together and have them in the end, and, of course, I propose to colleagues and colleagues that they also support them. Many, I will say, there have been discussions about how we have arranged this before, how we have now, what the effects of this, so new arrangements such as - well, we have previously had a joint inspection within the former municipalities, and the combination, of course, has been better there. It has therefore been pointed out that in this law, too, it is necessary to ensure that the work of inspectors is better coordinated, especially in terms of the appreciation of their work. Then, we said that it was necessary to place a precise border between policy and inspection. That is why we have also taken the view that inspections should be formed as some independent body in the composition of the ministries. This is due mainly to the fact that the Minister has influence, so he may also be responsible objectively for the work of the inspection itself, but he cannot interfere with specific matters. Then it was pointed out that there was a problem or dilemma regarding the delimitation of the powers of state and local inspections. Furthermore, we considered that the current solution, as offered, for political officials to participate in the inspection council, is not appropriate and, of course, this is then contained in the positions in this regard. Furthermore, it was warned and also explained by the government why inspection services are not successful enough. The fact is that the high percentage - mentioned was 80% - the case does not end because it simply does not come to a decision of the judge for offences. Of course, there was also a discussion in this direction about what are the possibilities for us to fix these things, or with some more accelerated work of judges for offences or by extending the statute of limitations. Because otherwise, inspection work, of course, loses its purpose. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce and a representative of the Chamber of Commerce also participated in the consideration of this Act. These two also pointed to something, in my opinion, crucial. The Chamber of Commerce points out, however, that more individualisation of penalties should be regulated. The representative of the Chamber of Economics pointed out what the representative of the Government had also pointed out, which is that many times the work of the inspection is difficult because the material regulations we adopt - of course, dear colleagues, here - are unclear, incomprehensible or can be interpreted in different ways. So, of course, all of this leads to what we have. Well, on the basis of this, I will say, a voluminous debate has been decided by the Committee to propose to the National Assembly that the law is a suitable basis for the drafting of a second reading law. However, the Government should take into account the views when preparing the proposal. I'm not going to list them, but there's 10 of them at the end of the report, and some of them seem to me to be more crucial, but I've already mentioned them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! I would like to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. In addition to the law on public agencies, the law on public administration and the law on public servants, the proposal for an inspection law is an important part of the provisions of the law in the field of state administration. We are pleased that the bill is being considered on a normal basis and in parallel with the other three laws, which our New Slovenia Group has already pointed out in its consideration of the proposal for a law on public agencies. Until now, inspection was not regulated by a separate law, but only by a law on general administrative procedure and several other laws governing administrative matters. The primary task of the inspection is to control the enforcement of laws and other regulations, which is, of course, necessarily linked to autonomy, which must be reflected in the specific tasks of the individual inspector, as well as in the organisation itself. Therefore, the organisational involvement of the inspection in another body in the composition is questionable. This is the body that carries out the administrative tasks. The question of the exercise of control over the work of that body is also raised. In doing so, they would point to the arrangements for the incompatibilities of other parts, given the repressive role of the inspector in the performance of his duties and his independence. Only - this should be defined more precisely and in particular to say how this autonomy is protected. In particular, it should be necessary to establish a way of dividing work or matters between inspectors in the same administrative area, to determine the rights or limitations of supervisors in the inspectorates with regard to interference with administrative matters of inspectors, such as the right to consult the file or file withdrawal, the right to add instructions in administrative matters, the right to request clarifications from inspectors for action in legal matters, to specify the data and reports that inspectors are required to collect, process and transmit to the management or the ministry. It is usually the inefficiency of inspections and the poor organisation of their services that make the most of the criticism on the part of citizens. The inspectors themselves find that the most important weakness of current and past inspection bodies is in the enforcement of inspection decisions. Illegality is largely eliminated by enforcement or not eliminated at all. Many executions that should be carried out forcibly after another person are not carried out because there is once no designated operator, secondly there is no financial means and thirdly there is no operational procedure. We believe that at least the following questions should be addressed in the law: how executions could be effective if the costs of enforcement operators are considered to be public procurement from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and they need to be equally collected. How the inspector should confiscate the items and documentation if he does not have an authorised operator to keep the items taken away. How to remove an unauthorised construction object if no authorised contractor is appointed. How the inspector can confirm the costs of the execution operator, if he is not professionally qualified to assess the costs of the operator, he does not know the legality of the company's financial operations and if the execution operators use them. How to remove an illegally built facility if no body is established to recover the costs from the debtor and this remains [[Incomprehensible.]] On it. How the inspector should execute, if available, the financial resources available for the payment of the executing operator and decided upon by another authority In view of the fact that the company’s legal order falls or stands in the enforcement of the inspection decisions, enforcement is one of the key issues of the rule of law. The proposal for a law is primarily aimed at upgrading the current regime. The New Slovenia Group considers that the basis for the second reading is good and that it will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I did not receive written applications for the debate. Here comes the written application to the debate. Mr. Branko Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, all together! I was not on the committee because I am not a member, but, of course, under my parliamentary duty, I have processed this law in the framework of the available time and, of course, I also have logical comments given that it is a general consideration. In fact, I would first ask the Minister, because he is only present, I am very pleased that he will be able to answer certain questions in concrete terms: whether you are on the committee or elsewhere - I have not observed, nor in the Committee's report - discussed this or not in this report, for example, how these matters are regulated in other European countries. Now we are always talking about the need to see that our legislation is in line with European law, according to their rules, etc. and that we are also somehow trying to follow those solutions that they have somewhere in the developed world, the European countries to which we are somehow approaching. On this occasion, I would first ask the Minister and ask him how these things are organised in other countries. First of all, I'm interested in this system of inspections. For we are now in this proposal of the law, I see, actually come to the same as we have so far. I don't know if there's any major change in this. Once again, we will have inspection bodies for individual areas within the Ministry, in its composition and so on. In short, it seems to me that we have such an organization now. And if, in my opinion, we're not going to do anything for the organizational system, for the organizational scheme, then we're going to have the same patchwork as we've had in the field of inspection services right now. This country is anyway totally "dismembered" and "dismembered" - I apologize for the poor expression, the perverse - but all inspection services, I believe, should be centrally regulated, although the government representative here said in his comment that he did not advocate that these inspection services should be centralised, under a common service and so on, because this is not clear about the definition of tasks and all such minorities. In fact, I do not agree with this assessment, and my assessment is that in some countries - as far as I know - because I do not have these data because I am not a government Member and I have difficulty walking the world, because I do not have the time, but I do think that some European countries have these things very effectively solved in other ways, not as we have defined. And I think that this way, as we have it now, is very ineffective. By the way, what's going on? It happens that many times these inspectors are supposed to supervise themselves, we have a whole range of chief inspectors in individual ministries, in the composition of ministries and so on and are extremely inefficient and also incoherent. The areas of inspection, in my opinion, cover themselves quite widely in certain cases, wherever there is a problem, so that I will not now mention the environmental problem, then what I know, the spatial inspector, is also connected to the health inspector and even a number of others. And in my opinion, if we want to work effectively, which, of course, is not working right now, especially environmental inspectors. A variety of factories - Mr. Minister, you know - should be closed long ago because it pollutes excessively, through all regulations and so on; I think you know these things, I will not list them, because but it is because we tolerate them all because we are looking at them, because these owners are now threatening to shut down companies if we pressure them to do cleaning machines and so on. [[...]] There's a whole series of difficult, difficult questions that we can't solve. Well, those are very difficult political questions, but anyway. I believe that in these provisions, such as the proposed organisation, these things should be more, I think, centralised somehow, set up central inspection services, which would, of course, be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Home Affairs, completely everything. Because this meeting also showed - Mr Minister, if you remember - how to deal with the interpretation of the school minister and so on, when we found out that those school inspections, internal inspections and so on, that those internal controls are not working. They don't work and they can't control themselves, that's a fact. I think that coordination was extremely poor. I've been doing a lot of work myself to solve problems, because I've been addressed, like, by certain people on the ground, and they've been asking me for this and that and a lot of things have ended up with inspection services. A lot of things. And when I came directly to the Chief Inspector himself and talked to him, he was extremely kind, I must admit. Normally, everyone was extremely nice, but at the end of the day, he said to me, "You know what, this is the situation, we can't do anything else." Look. Thus, the effectiveness of inspection services has been extremely poor, particularly in some areas, but not in some areas has been extremely effective. But now look, this is what the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce have pointed out. That's it. When they say they're with one employer more than once a year, the other, say, never. I will not say or say that some entrepreneurs, craftsmen need more control, because they may also repeatedly violate the rules and so on, and you find, over and over again, that they make the same mistakes or do not comply with the legislation and so on. But I think it's very strong, and I think I'm not wrong that it's also a lot of political pressure on individual entrepreneurs, craftsmen, especially if it's found out that it's not from the right political option. I'm sorry. I strongly agree with the fact that policy withdraws from these inspection services, that in fact they are completely independent, that they are professionals of the highest levels and that they are organised so that politics has the least impact on them, which is of course impossible. Which is impossible. Anyone who says that politics will move away from these areas and so on. Of course, those big words can speak. That is what we can all say, especially those who have authority in their hands, only to provoke some good opinion of themselves and of everything they do. But the fact is, as long as the world exists, no institution will want to withdraw from politics. That's a fact. Totally. But we must work with our organization to try to organize it in such a way that this influence is minimised. Because only human resources policy often means some political power, the political presence of some political option. Well, let's just leave it at that, but that's all very important. This is all very important. Now I don't know how we'd actually handle this. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you know these other systems for organising inspectorates in other countries. What do you say, given that it is here in the debate, in the minutes, the report of the working body shows that your representative - I don't know who was there - has identified this and refers to the anti-centralisation of the inspectorate as such. I would therefore ask your opinion on what you think about it and how it is arranged in other countries and whether it is in other countries - where it is regulated as I said earlier - that the inspection services are central and that under - for example - they are the common competence of the internal affairs authorities or the ministries - whether this is possible and acceptable in our case. Here, if I continue a little longer, I hope you will answer this question. In coordinating work inspections, when it is now stipulated that we should have an inspection board and so on, otherwise they will be - then in here as members of the Chief Inspectors and so on and that these things will be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, but now it says here that they will adopt the Rules of Procedure themselves. I don't know who's going to revise it, who's going to assess it if this rules of procedure are right or wrong. I think that regardless of the high competence of these experts, etc., we can't just let them adopt the rules of procedure themselves and no one will review it and no one will say whether it's okay or not or if we want to add something or how. I don't know. I think that this is also some weakness that needs to be addressed, among other things. Well, so much to begin with, and I hope you can tell me what I'm stuck with in this marriage, which somehow bothers me the most, this so far unfunctioning inspection services, if it's possible to arrange otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please, your debate is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I hope I have five minutes. I would like to remind fellow Members and Members of Parliament that this is an extremely important law. It should be borne in mind that the inspection is actually carried out by the police and that it is carried out in each country as regards the inspection, for a repressive body When the inspection turned from the interference of municipalities to the interference of individual ministries in the state sphere in 1995, something positive happened: the political impact that was sometimes unrestrained at local levels was reduced. I am actually saying this from my own experience, because I have been able to monitor these matters from a distance and also, not on my own, but on the shoulders of some inspectors. Well, I can tell you later that the inspectors were members of different political parties. So this political independence has increased and this has actually been a positive shift in this direction. However, this change also brought with it some weaknesses. One of the key weaknesses I would like to point out is that there has been uncoordinated work. I know, when the inspections were stationed by the municipalities, the inspectors cooperated and planned work together, and that's the way it is. So it's about procedures that need to be planned and implemented in some kind of sound and order. However, when this came under individual ministries, the ministries somehow led the inspection work policy on their own. Maybe now this law with this inspection council, which is defined here, will fix these matters. However, I would suggest that the powers of this Council may be further elaborated in this direction, in particular, so as not to duplicate the procedures. So today, many areas of inspection work are doubled. It is said that one inspection does the same work as the other, and this is certainly not in the direction of improvement and rationalisation and more efficient work. It also seems to me that the transition under State intervention has increased significantly the number of inspectors. This may also be good, but somewhere we would need an evaluation if it has also increased the efficiency of the work. One of these problematic issues, however, was also pointed out by the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy when he mentioned that the procedures are being duplicated in the sense that individual inspectors have assistants who conduct pre-trial procedures and then the inspectors after them actually repeat the same procedures. The other thing that seems essential to me and what this law does not define and tells us about is what my fellow Member, Mrs Majda Zupan, has pointed out, namely that inspections are powerless if all those procedures are not regulated, I would say, all those instruments with which the inspector can take place. She warned me about some problems, and I don't think she'd repeat them, because time doesn't allow me to. Perhaps just one example: If you want to take away an item, protect it and so on, then the inspector cannot do it on his own, but he must have the right option, he must have an organization that is empowered to do so and which can then also be entrusted in this process. Third thing I'd like to point out. I think there's too much correspondence in this inspection. Certain inspection services literally only deal with sending some reports, messages, then changing instructions too frequently, these instructions change too often; one procedure applies, and another approach comes along and so on. I would also like to draw attention to what is written in this law. It is unclear to me, and perhaps the Minister will reply to this why the inspector had to issue a decision to suspend the procedure when he found no irregularities. Because that doubles again, I'd say, that correspondence. For if you find no irregularity in any inspection, I don't know what this decision is for; maybe it's the right thing to do, I don't know. But simply, if there's no irregularity, then the procedure ends, but not to end with someone, I'd say, bureaucracy, with some writing of conclusions. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - I will finish right away - because all of this means so much and so much more employees, so much and so much more material costs, and, of course, the efficiency of this is nothing more. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u190	Your Honor! Each country must have a highly professional and very effective inspection service if it is to be a rule of law. The biggest amendment offered by the law is, of course, in the field of organisation of inspection services, where inspections are organised as inspectorates, as bodies within the Ministry or as organisational units. However, if inspection services are designed within the holders of public authority, we run counter to the law on administration. As a result, the first question now arises whether this law is "lex specialis" or is as later laws and will be amended accordingly. I think that's an important question. The second thing remains the fear under this law that inspection services will be unhurry, that they will not react to reasonable suspicions, and that they will not react in time. Furthermore, there is still concern that these services will remain inconsistent in the enforcement of decisions. Here, of course, the solutions offered by the proposer are those that do not constitute major innovations, especially those that show from experience that they are a major obstacle to the consistent enforcement of decisions. See, only: there is no free entry into the apartment, there is no free enforcement of the decisions, the enforcement activity is only in the case of blackgazers still out of reach, outside of contractual agreements or concessions - or what to say. Inspection services should be equipped with such legislation and with such possibilities that enforcement can be consistent. And of course, as already mentioned, the issue of the overload of judges for offences is not resolved. But it's probably the last instance we have to get rid of if we're gonna get an effective job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General. I think it is right that we have finally received a special law regulating the area of inspection services in our country. We can probably agree that the way in which inspection services have been organised so far has not been the best and not the most effective. But I still think that after all the marriage text I've reviewed, I still have two questions. One issue that has already been raised today is the coordination of inspection services. In the so-called world to be established, inspection services can detect partial progress in that direction, which has probably been very weak in practice so far. In fact, we know that when a borderline matter occurred under the authority of an inspector, it has often happened that he simply dismissed this role to another inspector, but there was no control or review as to how this issue is being resolved in the course of inspection. And the second, even more important question that comes to mind is the following. This law does not define in any way the relationship of inspection services to the municipal inspection services. Perhaps, if not the other, at least the transitional and final provisions should also include this relationship between the inspection services under the jurisdiction of the State or local government. Actually, it's just this formal work. The second is the substantive part. It is probably in practice the most difficult, at least so far, where that border area of municipal inspections is and where the border area of inspection services at state level is not only that it is formally regulated. This coordination should probably also be defined in the so-called Board of Inspection Services or in a similar solution. Otherwise, in a particular case, many questions that will not be answered may arise, despite all possible good intentions. These are two comments, which I think would probably be useful to examine them further thoroughly in the law's follow-up procedure. Otherwise, I think it's absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. A number of these matters, which were pointed out by colleagues who spoke before me, were, of course, also mentioned on the Committee. I apologize for realizing that you can't read the magnetogram. The report may only have some key issues, and I have missed out on some of the issues. However, in the discussion it was pointed out that virtually all of the things you had pointed out. A dilemma has also been resolved over what is being put in place, namely whether to establish a single body, such as a kind of ministry under the auspices of a government, which would be like one supreme authority over an inspection. Most of the board felt that this would not be good, for simply many reasons. I'm not going to repeat it. After all, one part of it was said by a government representative. In addition, I would like to draw attention to one of the views that seems to me to have been miswritten. This is the position on this - and therefore it is right for the Minister to hear - that the possibility of more individualisation of monetary penalties should be explored. Then it was said in the discussion that it could not be equal to a fine, for example for someone who has one employee or who has 20, 30. It was thought, of course, even then in the debate, that whoever has - for example - a strong turnover or a strong business after transport, after income, expenditure and so on; in short, that it is a trust, and that one who works hard with his hands and someone else helps him that in such a case would certainly not be the same punishment for both, even though it is actually an equal offence. This was meant by this individualisation of punishment. It was also pointed out that - what some of the colleagues were also talking about - that more opportunities should be given to inspectors to pass the sentence on the spot. In fact, all these procedures - so, of course, this needs to be examined how this can be done in our legal system - but all these procedures, which are then linked to offenders, say that, I will say, the seizure is very small. And another stupid thing has happened to us on the committee - so I'm going to put forward a proposal for a change of opinion - which is, the 9th position is not a position, but it's an additional conclusion. So it comes from the debate that it would be easier for us to decide when we decide on the draft law in the second reading and on the amendments that will come from the government, of course, it would be interesting for us to get data on the effectiveness of inspections, we will say, from 1995 onward, so it was meant. I will therefore propose an additional position and ask my colleagues and colleagues to support me in this regard, because the new law's skeletons are supposed to be formed in positions, and this is a tool that we should have before the second reading. I'd say something about what was said about decentralisation. Firstly, around the political impact, I think it is clear that in that world we have proposed that politicians be eliminated. Secondly, which was also pointed out by a government representative at the committee meeting itself and today was only a little bit of a start, and this is coordination at some other lower levels. Unfortunately, we cannot do this right now, ladies and gentlemen, because we are trading with constitutional changes. As long as we do not have the possibility of regionalisation of this country, all together there are only some pious desires for how to coordinate these matters at a lower level. So I'm sure the law itself is just the beginning. This will be a process, including the whole Look, this suit - one inspector should know what I know, from this party they are more persecuted, another inspector from another party - I am sure that the whole set of these laws that we are adopting now in this session - for example, one of them is a law on public servants, we also have a law on state administration - this whole set should help to cut policy off at some level from what will be professional, and people will grow in the profession; they will grow, of course, under many assumptions. [[...]] I would like to ask, Madam Vice-President, if you will allow me to prepare this proposal for a correction of my position and this proposal for an additional decision which I already have.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. You want to replicate Mr. Lavrinez. As far as I can tell, Mr Lavrinc has explained what the mother's working body has been dealing with. I don't know what we could replicate. Mr. Minister, I think I'd like to answer your questions. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much for first supporting the idea that this law is necessary to systematically complement the functioning of the public administration and also for the issues that are truly open to the track. I must say that what honourable Member Kelemina supports was one of the outstanding issues also in the professional debates that were in the stage of drafting this law. In fact, there are several different approaches in Europe to organising inspection services. There's basically two of them. One is the one that we are offering here, and this is based on the basis that the Minister is responsible not only for the drafting of regulations but also for the application of rules in real life. This means that the inspection bodies have as a tool to verify the effectiveness of the rules and also to enforce them. In addition, it is essential for the effective functioning of inspection services to establish so-called professional verticals. This was explicitly stressed by the Inspectors as essential for efficiency, as it means: not only an expert hierarchy, but also specialisation in a specific field of expertise as a condition that effective and professional professional inspectors operate in their field. These are essentially all the advantages of the concept that the inspection service is a body within the Ministry, of course, with the additional definition contained in this law. This is that the Chief National Inspector is no longer a political official, but that he is an administrative manager, that is, the head of the body composed as a professionally independent institution, which conducts an inspection activity as a professional activity under the rules of professional and professional ethics. In short, it is also one of the ideas of public administration reform, i.e. the separation of policies from professions and independence, the professional dependence of institutions operating within ministries. Of course, I agree, there is also a type of weakness within this concept or there are some good aspects to the concept that some European countries also have and that you have presented here, Mr Kelemina. In fact, the centralisation of all inspection services in one body. It can be a ministry, it can be within, say, the Ministry of the Interior, as you presented. This concept has many advantages, notably ensuring better coordination, more coherent action, intertwining professional areas of control, which is often linked to efficiency issues, but is not guaranteed what is in the first concept. In view of ensuring the effectiveness of the rules, ensuring the enforcement of the rules concluded by the Minister, in short, this hierarchical linkage, which does not affect professional autonomy, but affects the responsible coverage of a certain area of life, which therefore includes not only normative activity, but also implementation, implementation and implementation of this normative activity. There are certainly advantages and disadvantages within one concept and another. And there is no reference to the debate on this second concept. After all the professional checks, even after comparative analyses of European countries, where the situation is quite different, we decided on the concept that we are proposing; not least because of our good experience of reorganisation of 1995 or the introduction of inspectorates as authorities in the composition of ministries, when municipal jurisdiction was transferred to state jurisdiction in 1995. Of course, there remains another important open issue, in addition to what you state, a more coherent action, thus greater coordination, then professional integration, which we want to resolve with this Council in Article 11. I think that the warnings regarding the establishment of this world are acceptable or very serious and we will also examine them responsibly. From the fact that I agree that it may not be best for this rules of procedure to be adopted by the world itself, but that it is a regulation that is adopted outside the world itself, to who is all involved in this work, and to the extent that - I think - Mr Drobnic said - the powers of this world or I think it is very important that this world really implements as a form that ensures a more coherent functioning. In fact, our assessments also show, and we base them on - this solution - that there is no coordination. It's mostly not on the local level. And one of the ideas that was very present in the debates was to connect inspection services at least locally within administrative units. This idea has received a lot of support and there is a lot of argument for it in the weaknesses of the current operation, but we have somehow postponed it for a second phase until the establishment of the landscape system or regional integration within this second stage of local self-government. In short, we believe that the issue of effective coordination of local inspection services will still need to be met in the exercise of the provinces. As regards the burden of inspectors, their number, their practical operation. These are all real issues, also related to our abilities, which are not directly addressed by law. As well as not solving one of the extremely important issues already raised by my colleague Zupanov, some of you, namely enforcement, operationalisation of the inspectors' decisions, are partly related to the issue of housing. As far as housing is concerned, however, we believe that it should remain as it is, that is, the decision of the judiciary, as is the case with police procedures. And we don't judge here that there would be meaningful changes. Of course, the issue of enforcement, enforcement of decision-makers remains, which is not the subject of this law or is only partially the subject of this law. This is the chapter on specific measures at the end when there may be something else to improve, but the question of enforcement is the subject of justice and other rules. That's it, explain something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Didn't you get any more explanations? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry to have to come by again, but I would like to make some things a little bit clearer, or perhaps from another point of view. I wanted to reiterate to Mr Lavrinc that I agree with him in certain matters, but I have some other concerns and views on this bill. Look, now I'm going to open some other aspect of my proposal or my view of centralization. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u199	Mr. Kelemina, I don't want to interrupt. It's 6:01. I must remind you that from your parliamentary group on the Committee all these topics have been open, reasoned, voted in the form of positions, and the retention of the National Assembly on the same issues that your parliamentary group's mother's working body has already addressed, have already voted in the form of opinions - you as a long-standing Member know exactly that you can influence the law at first reading by proposing additional positions at this stage. And all this debate has actually been heard three times, Mr Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u200	Wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u201	And also in the form of additional views. If you want to talk again after five minutes, tell me, we'll stop. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u202	No, not more than five minutes. Now I wanted to take advantage of these five minutes, Madam Vice President, with all due respect for you, but how do you know what I'm going to discuss? Now I am thinking of opening an aspect that no one has ever talked about, not in the working body or in the National Assembly! Why won't you let me introduce myself?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u203	I'm asking you because I'd like to finish because it's 6:02 p.m. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u204	But we'll continue tomorrow, okay, tomorrow, because there's no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u205	Okay. Your Honor, allow me to give you two more notices. First, we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m., as already announced, by addressing the 28th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have received a proposal - but I see that Members are already leaving - to continue tomorrow with the 4th item of the agenda, pardon, with the 4th item of the agenda. However, we are obliged, under the current arrangements, to continue with today's interrupted agenda item 12. So there is no formal proposal to proceed with point 4 tomorrow. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u206	I think someone wrote you a bad letter, but it makes sense when we're done with the rules of procedure, that we're going to point four and forward. But it's better if we finish this point and then we go to this, it's not complicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u207	We will therefore continue the meeting tomorrow, as was the custom, with the interruption of the 12th item of the agenda, this is the one we are considering now, and then continue with the 4th item of the agenda, then with 13th and in order of course. Allow me to repeat to you the invitation of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which invites all of you and all the employees today at 6 p.m. and 10 minutes to the concert of the young music generation and to the opening of the exhibition of the National Youth Organization, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, in front of the large hall of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye.
