ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Davorin Terčon for the afternoon part of the session, Leopold Grošelj, Igor Štemberger, Jurij Malovrev for the beginning of the session, Ivan Kebric from 16.00 p.m., Dr. Slavko Gaber for the beginning of the session, Danica Simšič for the beginning of the session, Andrej Fabjan for the afternoon part of the session. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. Once again, I ask Members and Members to insert the cards. There are 47 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very well! Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 38th item on the agenda, these are elections and appointments. Then the assembly will move on to the 12th item, this is a proposal for a law on librarianism, and in order of order. Following the conclusion of the meeting, we will hold the 10th item of the agenda in this afternoon, this is the draft law on external matters. So we move on to 38. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. You have received proposals from the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and proposals and opinions from the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs. The assembly will consider under this item on the agenda: - a proposal by the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia; - Commission proposals for elections, appointments and administrative matters: consent to the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, appointment of members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society, appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success, amendment of the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy - and proposals by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and for the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Audit Commission. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. First, as has been said, we are considering the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors to appoint another Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Court of Auditors - I ask Members to calm down a little - has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, Ms Zdenko Vidovic, second Deputy. Does the President of the Court of Auditors want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and submitted a report to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does she want to speak for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Zdenka Vidovic? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the vote for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall be secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidents shall hold a secret ballot by means of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly, the Deputy, in particular, and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. These are: Rudolf Moge, LDS, Branko Kelmina - SDS, Aurelio Juri - United List of Social Democrats, and Franci Rokavec - Slovenian People's Party + SKD. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. It's 62, 40, 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the voting shall deliver a voice to each Member. The Assistant Secretary-General of the General Assembly shall, however, indicate on the name and surname of the Member on the list that his ballot was served. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot which is not completed in accordance with the above-mentioned instructions shall be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for her, i.e. 46 or more Members. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10.35 a.m. and will last until 10.50 a.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. We'll continue the meeting at 11.05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. We're continuing our session. Let's find out who's here! There are 73 Members and Members present. I find that the assembly is adjourned and I publish the outcome of the vote. Minutes of the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 42(1) of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors proposed Mrs Zdenko Vidovic as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held on Thursday, 24.5.2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 71 ballots were distributed. 71 ballots were delivered. There was an invalid voice page. There were 70 valid ballots. 52 members voted in favour and 18 members in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the proposed candidate, Mrs Zdenka Vidovic, was appointed second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] Allow me to congratulate the ladies on behalf of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are discussing the proposal for a decree on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Council proposes to appoint Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia for a period of four years. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There's no sign-in. Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on consent to appoint Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia for a period of four years. I apologize, I'm very sorry, we're already in the vote, and for that [[...]] [[The messenger speaks from the bench.]] I didn't notice that. I'm sorry. [[...]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, pursuant to Article 72, because we need to consult on this, please announce a recess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Can you tell me how long?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Half an hour, Mr Vice President, we need the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Half an hour's rest. We'll continue the meeting at 11.45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	Please, let's take our seats. We continue with the proposal for a decree on consent to appoint the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. Before I give the word to Dr. Bajuku, I'd like to give just one brief notice. When we have completed this whole point, I would like to ask if we can address point 11 of the proposal for a company law, where only two harmonisation amendments need to be adopted. Please, Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Group of Members has concluded its consultation. In our assessment, in the New Slovenia assessment, it is difficult to find in the world a more closed and biased media space than we have in Slovenia. At the expense of Slovenian taxpayers, it dominates this key house to a large extent and to an entirely excessive degree of uniformity. We've decided to change. We have little hope that change will take place because what is actually happening in this house is not just the decision of the director, but the whole administration and the world. However, because we hope and trust that once Slovenia will truly achieve such political development and culture that unilaterality will only disappear once, we have decided to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We've got a vote to make. We are voting on the proposal for a decree appointing Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia for a period of four years. Let's vote, please. There are 77 Members and Members present. 64 Members voted against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] We continue with this item on the agenda, namely: the proposal for a decree appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the supervisory committee of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59, against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are considering a proposal for a decree appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to succeed for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are considering a proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? First John Sponik, SLS, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed decree because we wanted the National Assembly to decide even more boldly on the basis of the debate at Kwiaz and to establish a self-employed working body that would exercise control over the privatisation and sale project in particular. However, the majority decision was such that this area was further allocated, by amending the decree, to the already functioning committee of the National Economic Assembly. We have also received a motion for a decree proposing to add a fourth indent, the text of which reads that the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy is monitoring the privatisation and sale of state property. In the current decree in the first three indents - the first three indents in the second section of this decree already speak of the area in question; that is, the control over privatisation and the sale of state property. However, since we are convinced that the majority decision of the National Assembly is that it would also be clearly stated in this decree that it is a supervisory function, we propose a minimum amendment to this indent, which we have also tabled in the amendment form and it is said - that the text of the new fourth indent should read: "The treatment, monitoring and monitoring of the exercise of privatisation and the sale of state property." Colleagues and colleagues would ask that our amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give my word to Aloys Sok, New Slovenia. It shall act on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and Members. We will not support this change of decree in our Group of Members. Our proposal was that the existing Commission on Budgetary Control and Public Finance should exercise this supervisory function over the privatisation of state property. Unless the National Assembly establishes a special commission for this area. The amendment of this decree will, in effect, result in a coalition overseeing itself. As it is a matter of control over the privatisation of state property, we cannot agree with this form of control and therefore we will not support this change of decree for these very reasons. Yesterday, however, there was a lot of talk in this national assembly about the problems of privatisation. We feel that such a solution, when the actual ruling coalition controls itself, is not an honor to this national assembly and therefore we cannot support such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Does he have a word on behalf of the delegation? [[...]] Please, Mr. Skull!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. In the LDS Group, we support the solution that one of the working bodies should give this task of monitoring, and we also agree with the proposal of the colleagues from the SLS Group of Members to monitor these problems related to the privatisation of state assets, so we will also support this amendment if you all think that this function is more clear. However, we believe that the Committee on the Economy is the right body to do these things for a simple reason because it is appropriate to look at what the Committee on the Economy is already doing. He has taken over, I will say, all those tasks performed by the commission in the previous mandate to monitor the transformation of social property. If you allow me, I will read one part of this decree, so it will be understandable that it is most logical that this part of the monitoring and supervision of this committee goes on, and that they do not hold to the concerns of those who somehow control themselves, because it is ultimately only the body of the national assembly, not the coalition, government or anything, as is always the case for the body of the national assembly. The decree already in force states: The Committee shall also monitor and supervise the work of the Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation, the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of the Slovenian Compensation Society, the Capital Company, the Pension and Disability Insurance, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, mutual funds, investment companies and management companies, and other funds linked to the property transformation of companies and other legal persons. The following indent states that the Committee considers the reports of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on the revision of the property transformation of enterprises, the Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation, further to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development, the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia and other institutions in the field of social property damage in the property transformation of enterprises or legal persons. The following indent states that the Committee shall examine the reports of the authorities responsible for the privatisation of state property and the reports concerning the damage to state property in the privatisation process. We would add an indent to monitor - and I agree - and supervise the privatisation and sale of state property. So it seems to me that Kviaz has sought a solution that is consistent with the structure of the National Assembly at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group he'd like? Dr. Bayuk. I'm sorry. Yours is already on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, President. I thought it was already a debate. Thank you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	No, no. Please, is there another group of Members? Janez Janša, SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. We're not opening this decision. It's a lot of sand in the eyes. The initial initiative was by transferring the powers of control to the Committee on the Economy, which is the normal working body of this National Assembly, but is not supervisory, of course. It's actually worse than it wouldn't have been. Now they were telling themselves that there was some kind of control here, and in practice there will be no such control. The Committee on the Economy, for example, unlike the Commission on the Control of Services dealing with Special Methods and Means, or, unlike the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, there is no possibility that a third of Members would require certain information. Which means that there will be opposition in this committee, even if there are legitimate proposals or suspicions that something is wrong, absolutely without the power to do so even if there is no benevolent ruling coalition on the other hand, which, unfortunately, has not been observed so far. So with this solution, I think we've made things worse. We've given some cover, like something's gonna be controlled, but it's not really gonna happen. Two years from now, if there's any such case, I'm going to take this magnetogram of my debate and read it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Does he wish to discuss the representative of any other parliamentary group? Because he does not want me to give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. The text is by a Member of the Commission, Dr. Bayuk. [[your debate is limited to five minutes, considering that you have not applied]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a Member and also as a member of the New Slovenia of this law and I cannot support this arrangement. This change is in fact no change, the only thing it is, is another mask to this sad period of Slovenian history of property ownership. There will be talk and will be presented to the Slovenian public that the National Assembly is actually in control. In fact, the only thing that will happen is that a great coalition will control itself. We can't support this. We will continue to fight against this, and we will pay close attention to everything that will happen there. I am convinced that it is precisely because the great coalition did not have so many presences that it would also give the minority the advantage and right of the Committee, the opposition, that it may require certain information, that this is the first evidence that this change is actually just a consolidation of everything that we have so far had too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Please. Member Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would add that, if a large coalition had pure and fair purposes in this matter, it would then be able to leave this function to the opposition. That would be the case in every normal democratic country. Thus, there will be a vote on Kviaz, who has decided to do so, and this will also occur on the Committee on the Economy, where the undisputedly large coalition has a majority, and which it itself is leading. It's just that this state of opacity, the lack of transparency, will continue with us. In fact, we are talking here about control and not those functions that President Kviaz has previously presented, Mr Školč, when he listed the tasks of the Committee on the Economy. So here we're talking about a specific function here, this is a control function. Once again, I am deeply convinced that this function of control should be carried out by the opposition under all normal democratic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	There is only one explanation for Mr Sok because he misrepresents the facts and it is necessary to clarify this in the replica. If that were true, Mr Sok, this great coalition would simply reject the proposal then in those late evening hours, and this proposal would not be and would not concern me at all with the question of setting up or a special commission or anything else. But with the votes of this great coalition, it was also voted. So that the facts mentioned are not accurate. But I don't mean to polymise about it, because I think Quiaz has been said enough, and I believe we're going to vote soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. He's replicating Janez Janša!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	Now, I'm sorry that colleague Anderlich overheard what I said earlier. Of course, the great coalition is so deceitful that it knows that it is better that it can always be said that control exists, that this decree is shown, and it is said that, because there is control here because it is exercised by the Committee on the Economy. In fact, there is no such control. Therefore, you did not reject this proposal, although you could.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. A replica? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Just one addition to all this. Mr Anderlič recalled that long night when the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget was also adopted here. We strongly opposed Article 6 and then the great coalition assumed this responsibility by replacing it, changing the law on public finances so that everything would be done legally. By doing so, you will take full responsibility for all that will continue from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you. A replica? Please, John the Companion!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. For a moment, I would like to refer to my colleague Janša and my colleague, Dr Bayuk. First of all, the decision of the great coalition, the coalition, as you said. The night we adopted the state budget for this year, it was at the top that most of them were members of the coalition, 16 against and 17 for voting on a proposal I made myself. In view of the fact that Parliament also has a supervisory role, the National Assembly should consider setting up a specific working body following the issue of control of property and the sale of State property. Today, my colleague Školč said that the already existing decree on the establishment of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy in the first indent of the second section on these issues. The current decree has already imposed on the Committee on the Economy to monitor and monitor several agencies and other institutions related to ownership and other procedures relating to the ownership and sale of state property. However, we have explicitly proposed that, by amending and supplementing the decree, the indent should also be added, which is that it is also clear that it is "the treatment, monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of privatisation and sale of state property" - in a stand-alone indent. [[...]] This decision of the National Assembly is useful here and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Lois Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Dear Members and Members! It is difficult to follow without comment so quickly changing the rules of the game or the principles themselves. During the previous term of office, there was a need for a special commission. As there was still a different view of Parliament's supervisory role and also of the opposition's doing so, this committee was led by an opposition member. Now this matter has changed, and concrete or concentration of power continues. This brings an additional parliamentary culture to our side. And, of course, it is clear from these findings that my support for such a decree cannot continue to limit or abolish the role or role of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replica, Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Of course, in his previous mandate, Dr Rajc, Mr Peterle, chaired a three-and-a-half-year commission to control the property transformation of enterprises as an opposition Member and a half-year positional committee. But as a memory does not deceive me, and during the 1992 - 1996 term, the whole period as a member of the post. So actually, things can turn out the way they want. The purpose, as I know, of the National Assembly at the time of adoption of this Decision in the budget, however, was to specify one working body: either in particular or in particular one working body. Because if control over the privatisation of state property is divided into three or four working bodies, this control will certainly be ineffective. This does not mean, however, that if we write this text in a decree, in the working capacity of the Committee on the Economy, this reduces the competence of the Commission, which controls the budget and the public finances. The fact is that the budget is also an integral part of all purchases. And I see no reason why the supervisory function of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance would be curtailed; it will also be able to oversee all specific procedures for the sale of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk replicates, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for all the explanations. However, I would just like to add that, in no way change the fact that the government coalition, with this change or no change in my view, has decided to control itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party and you received it on the bench. I'm putting the amendment to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on that amendment. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 16. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. For 38, versus 18. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We move on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to release and appoint members of the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for the discharge and appointment of two members of the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the government want a word? [[It doesn't; it doesn't.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for a resolution. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to dismiss and appoint a member of the State Audit Commission. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Audit Commission for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He's not here.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for a resolution. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 13. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on, as I've already predicted, to a follow-up of 11. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. On the basis of the finding of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a harmonisation amendment to Articles 135 and 138. You received the material of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today on the bench. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want to speak to a representative for law and law? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 135. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 37 votes against 15. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 138. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 11. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the amendment to Article 138 has been adopted. We still have a full vote on the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. Wait a minute. [[A voice from behind.]] You've come a little late, but please. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, one request, one wish, if so expressed. Let us make timely calls, for otherwise we can see for ourselves that things are getting complicated. Okay. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the upcoming meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I will propose that the opposition receive one bell so that we can reach this party in good time. In any case, thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. I want to explain my voice. I will vote against this law, namely, in the profound belief that this is a systemic error, which is actually a greater opportunity for concentration of capital and power in our companies. But I would also like to express my great surprise that the people who have defended or at least talked about defending the interests of workers and small people in the past will today, in this great coalition, embody an even greater concentration of capital and power in our economic space. We will vote against this law and we will do everything we can to make the Slovenian public understand once and for all what is really going on here and what systemic changes are being imported on behalf of Europe, which is simply not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice from the Members and Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 39 to 19. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. We have yet to vote on an additional decision. The Maternal Committee proposes to the Assembly to adopt the following proposal for an additional decision: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall examine the comments of the cooperative association of Slovenia and, if necessary, prepare appropriate amendments to the cooperative law." Anybody want to talk? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 8. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. TIME OF DAY - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON LIQUIDARY. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Please, procedurally, Rudy Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. I'd like to point out the following. Whenever we deal with cultural laws recently, we do so not only with massive interruptions at the same meeting, but we drag them through even more meetings than these laws are less important. Just remember the media bill. We now have before us a law on librarianism, which has between 20 and 30 pages of written amendments, which has enormous weight for us, which is of national importance, and after the end of this point we will continue with the law on external matters. That is why, as presidents, such a thing does not seem worthy of our Parliament. That is why I propose that we go to one of the points that we could end now in half an hour because we will certainly not be able to do so, and at least one of the cultural laws would start and end at the same time. I propose procedurally if we can start, which I think should not be a problem with ratifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I'd like to ask if you could specify it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Presidents, I have proposed that we start ratifications, not ratifications. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	I think there's a little problem here. As you know, government representatives must or should be involved. Of course, these are not here, and in this case we will have to wait for government representatives to come. Do you insist on the proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	I certainly insist, given the recent practice of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Then, of course, I will have to put this proposal to the vote. I am voting on Mr Mojet's proposal to proceed with the ratifications. We're voting. 76 Members and Members present, for 38, for 15. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 15.]] So the proposal was adopted. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Then I suggest we start with the library law tomorrow at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	I'm sorry, I'm not. It sounds bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	I suggest we start the debate, discuss the library law tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'd like to suggest that tomorrow at 10 a.m., we begin the consideration of the library law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Okay. So tomorrow, at 10:00, we start to consider the library law. 10:00. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 to 21. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 21.]] The proposal was adopted. I'm giving you 10 minutes' rest to get government representatives here and get ready for the material. 12.40 to go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	We're picking up the locks in the hall! There are 70 Members and Members present. The congregation can continue its work. I suggest, if there are no complications, that all agenda items should be placed until the afternoon break - ratification of course. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Ratification of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 43 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting please! There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ON THE APPROACH OF THE RESERVES OF THE FIELD RESERVES OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES OF PETER AND OF THE NATIONAL RESERVES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, COMPOSED ON THE TERRITORY OF THE UNITED NATIONS REPUBLIC OF GERMANY. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, I propose that the assembly, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Regular Air Traffic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, I propose that the assembly, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Because it does not want to, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to making a full decision on the bill. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Ukraine. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft legislation, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it decide to vote only on the draft law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and or Dessert in Africa. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 37 votes against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We also conclude the morning session. The meeting will continue at 2.30 p.m. with the announced 10th item - Law on Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government! Nice to meet you in our midst. We continue with the afternoon session of the 6th session. I'm telling you, they're additionally entitled to continue the mags. Andrej Vizjak for the afternoon part of the session, Dr. Michael Brejc from 4 p.m. onwards, Alexander Merlo for the afternoon part of the session, Janez Cimperman for the afternoon part of the session, Franz Kangler from 4 p.m. onwards, Janez Podobnik from 4 p.m. Please kindly check to see if we've inserted the cards because we'll be able to determine the presence. I'm picking up the presence! There are 66 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly, we are moving to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON EXTERNAL CASES, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members! About a month separates us from the 10th anniversary of the independent Slovenian state. The basic rules of independence adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at that time also included the law on external matters in force so far. The ten-year period of implementation of the law, the provisions of which could have been fully implemented after international recognition, showed that a new law was needed. The bill, which takes into account the structure of the law in force, is kept in many ways and is being upgraded and amended, including some issues that have not been settled so far but have proved to be regulated. A different regulation of individual issues was needed because it wanted to and because it was so prescribed by the current constitutional regulation - you know that in the meantime the Constitution has changed - and in part the law needs to be amended because of the experience gained through interstate practice and the functioning of its own diplomatic apparatus. A key guide in the preparation of the solutions was the comparison with the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the adjustment of arrangements in the light of the regional integration process in Europe. The purpose of the law is to further develop Slovenian diplomacy, to increase flexibility in the conclusion of international treaties and to introduce acts of international organisations and institutions into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and to regulate pending issues. The solutions to enable the further development of the diplomatic apparatus stem from the elimination of the distinction between career diplomats and contract diplomats, the distinction known by the current regime. This opens the same status for all those performing diplomatic tasks, subject to the same conditions in principle. In particular, the diplomatic examination on the basis of which diplomats obtain internationally comparable titles should be mentioned under the prescribed conditions. This solution, which is not contrary to the system of public servants, which has been established in European countries and is also being prepared for us, will contribute significantly to the quality and professionalisation of the diplomatic apparatus. Particular attention, ladies and gentlemen, is needed in order to increase the openness of the system, better horizontal connectivity and strengthening expertise. The bill pays particular attention to the transfer of foreign ministry staff to work in the field of international relations to other national authorities. It will also be possible to involve staff of other state bodies or scientific institutions in the field of international relations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. By dividing the international treaties into those for which essential powers are reserved in the procedure of the National Assembly and those international treaties for which these powers are to be exercised by the Government, greater flexibility will be achieved in the conclusion of international contracts. Such a proposal takes into account in our regulation the established division of power and is in line with predominant international practice. In particular, I would like to point out that, as soon as possible in the previous and current law, the National Assembly remains the centre of implementation, the creation of Slovenian foreign policy and, of course, Slovenian national interests, as defined by this High Council. Respected colleagues and colleagues, the amendments tabled by the Government to the proposal for a law are the result of inter-sectoral and, following a change of government, also coalition coordination. The amendments take into account comments submitted by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs before the law is examined by the competent committees of the National Assembly. The amendments give due importance to the role of the National Assembly in determining the fundamental orientations of foreign policy, contribute to greater professionalism of the diplomatic apparatus and clearly and clearly delimit the powers of the national assembly and the government in ratifying international treaties. Such amendments have been supported in the current debate in the competent bodies of the National Assembly. The Government insists solely or also on the proposal for an amendment to the 91st section of the Act, which has not yet been supported by the Home Committee. The government supports the amendments of the Foreign Policy Committee, the government supports the amendments of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world and the amendment of the Group of Members on international civilian missions. All these amendments contribute to the clarity of the text, are in line with the basic objectives of the law and contribute to a better regulation of the field. Of course, the basic objectives of the law are to adapt to the rules of the Member States of the European Union and to the constitutional arrangements resulting from the division of powers between the legislative and executive branches of authorities. With these aspects, the appointment of an ambassador cannot be linked to the consent of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as presented by Mr Jelinčič in his amendment to Article 17. This provides for a discussion of the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy with the candidate for Ambassador. The interview with the candidate remains in law and the government is interested in it as soon as possible. However, the Government does not agree with the amendment tabled by Mr Yelinčič, which was not supported by the home committee of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, my fellow Members, have considered our law in the competent bodies of the National Assembly, including the Council of State, has shown that the law in the present text enjoys support and that there are no fundamental differences on its basic guidelines and the way in which it is dealt with in this area. Its acceptance is needed both for the further consolidation and development of our statehood and for the integration of Slovenia into a common Europe. The Government has included the adoption of the law on external matters in the national programme for the adoption of European legislation and the National Assembly has been informed of this. The preparation of the new law was also included in the negotiating points with the European Union. The law was supposed to be adopted, and I would also like to add that at the end of 1999. The adoption of the law will fulfil this obligation. In the second decade, the Republic of Slovenia will enter its independence by means of a new law reflecting the progress made in one of the key areas of state action, which provides the basis for the further strengthening and enforcement of the international position of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much for including the law in today's session, thank you very much for taking into account some of the government's proposals on your agenda and, of course, I hope that the law will also be adopted in this round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! At its 20th regular meeting, held on 13 April this year and at its 23rd regular meeting, held on 9 May this year, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the draft law on external matters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration with the proposal to be considered and adopted in accordance with Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The reasons for the adoption of the draft law following the rapid procedure were explained by the applicant in his proposal. The members of the Committee were also informed of the written opinion of the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, said that Slovenia's foreign policy position required an amendment to the existing law on external matters, which was adopted 10 years ago. The adoption of the new law is also included in the programme of harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union. He stressed that the aim of the proposed law is to regulate the further development of Slovenian diplomacy, the conclusion of international treaties and the adaptation of the European regime. With regard to the development of Slovenian diplomacy, he highlighted the current regime, which knows career and contract diplomats, while the proposal for a new law abolishes contract diplomats and maintains the possibility of including outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs outside the diplomatic service, who have adequate work experience in the field of international relations in other state bodies. Nor does the bill regulate, new rules on diplomatic titles that are internationally comparable and uniform, both for internal and external work. In addition, he stressed that the deployment of career diplomats to work in other state bodies, the openness of the system for people with relevant experience, and the possibility of appointing heads of diplomatic representations and consulates outside the career diplomats cycle, provides the broad enough staff base necessary to carry out the work in the field of external affairs successfully. As regards the conclusion of international treaties, he highlighted the proposal to divide into international treaties ratified by the National Assembly by law and international treaties ratified by the Government by a regulation. Regarding the adaptation of the European regime, he said that the proposal for a law governs the enforcement of acts of international integration organisations other than international treaties, such as resolutions, declarations of organisations of the United Nations and other acts binding individuals and legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, he added that the proposal for a law was comparable to the external affairs regime in the European Union. The head of the international affairs sector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Peter Bekeš, explained that the amendments to Articles 2 and 74 of the bill, of 16 March, were in line with the secretariat of the State Council for Law and Legal Affairs, which, in its opinion on the proposal for a law, raised concerns mainly about these two articles. Dr Miha Pogačnik, an external associate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, added that the draft law highlighted the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it came to explaining what the international treaty was. He drew attention to the new category of international contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which means the validation of the practice and the solution already in the existing law, but because of the general clause in the law, it was vaguely formulated. However, the method of textual inclusion in the proposal for a new law allows for greater transparency and greater legal certainty. He also highlighted the novelty of the proposal for a law whereby the temporary application of an international treaty, for example, is no longer possible when it is ratified by the National Assembly. So far, it's been possible. He argued that the Institute in practice had caused considerable difficulties, in particular following the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to make the international treaty part of the Slovenian legal order following its ratification and publication. Mr Pukšič, on behalf of the Commission of the Slovenian National Assembly, expressed concerns about Articles 2 and 24. He felt that there was little concern for Slovenians in place and around the world in those articles. Therefore, the Commission has also tabled an amendment to these articles. He explained that, with the support of the two amendments, we would maintain that level of attention to the Slovenians in place and throughout the world, which has already been guaranteed in the existing law. The members of the Committee expressed their support for the bill in the discussion in the introduction and pointed to some uncertainties. They highlighted the basic dilemma raised in their opinion by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and related to the non-compliance of the draft law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Articles 2 and 74. They therefore expressed their satisfaction with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to these two articles. These are the amendments of 16 March, which remove this dilemma. The proposal of a union of Slovenian diplomats to Articles 15 and 27, under which a person from other bodies and organisations could be appointed as a representative abroad, provided for in Article 15 and as head of the diplomatic consular office, as provided for in Article 27, is appointed only if there is no suitable candidate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That proposal was identified as an attempt to monopolize the conduct of external affairs. At the same time, they pointed out that most employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not have diplomatic education, so the proposal is inappropriate because the potential of staff in Slovenia is limited and the proposed approach would be detrimental to the development of Slovenian diplomacy. Finally: They further pointed out the ambiguity of the individual article of the bill. They highlighted the need for a more precise definition of the attitude of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards the State Council and local communities in Article 3. Article 17 of the law proposal highlighted the reduced role of the Committee on Foreign Policy compared to the existing law in the process of appointing ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. The victory of the Helinčič Trinitarians was of the view that it would be necessary to maintain the dictatorship which is in the existing law on this issue and to submit an amendment to Article 17 to the Committee and to propose that the Committee accept it as its amendment. In Articles 39 and 91, the solution was negatively highlighted that only the work experience gained in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which they referred to as exclusive, was a condition for appointment to a diplomatic title. They considered that it would be a good idea to amend the said article in the sense that the diplomatic title, when other conditions were met, could also include the staff of other ministries and government services, with particular reference being made to government officials for European affairs. With regard to Article 74, some members of the Committee felt that the introduction of the category of international treaties ratified by the Government was good, as it would accelerate the adaptation to the European legal order.It was expressed or expressed that the Government wished to ratify the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on cooperation in culture, education and science by means of a new solution in this article. With regard to the latter, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, explained that Article 90 of the draft law provides that the procedures initiated prior to the entry into force of this Act will be followed by the procedures so far. After the general discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Foreign Policy Committee supports the proposed rapid procedure for the consideration of the bill." The Committee then moved on to a second reading of the bill. In the event of procedural uncertainties arising from the two amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 2 of the Act, the members of the Committee suspended the discussion on the proposal for a law. The debate was then resumed at the 23rd meeting, held on 9 May this year. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee took into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the proposals drawn up by the representatives of the proposer and the comments made in the debate. The Committee has drawn up and adopted a number of conclusions on the basis of individual amendments. You've received a review of the amendments, so allow me not to go into detail. I would just like to say that the amendment amending paragraph 1 has been voted on by Article 14, so it is now reads: 'The diplomatic representation shall be opened or closed by order of the President of the Republic. The proposal is prepared by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the previous opinion of the Committee of the State Assembly for Foreign Policy." I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken note of this decision and no longer opposes it. However, I am in a bit of a dilemma after hearing the Minister's performance in connection with Article 91. In fact, the amendment of the Government to the 91st member foreign policy committee has not been adopted. Mr. Minister said today that the government insists on this amendment. However, many of us have received a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Dimitria Rupla, who expresses a different view. If you read the last paragraph, it's like this. [[It's a request.]] : "I am asking you to support the adoption of the law to form in the debate on the draft law on external matters next week in the National Assembly, as confirmed by the competent committee of the State Council for Foreign Policy." However, the committee responsible did not support this amendment, so these two statements are contradictory. The Committee also identified the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 15 February and 16 March, the amendments of the Committee on Slovenians in place and worldwide, the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Robert Battelli and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members. The Committee supported the following amendments: amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 2, Article 3, Article 7, Article 8, paragraph 2, and Article 9, Article 14, Article 14, Article 17, Article 20, Article 27, Article 39, Article 69 and Article 74. He then supported the amendment of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world to Articles 2 and 24. He supported the amendment of the Group of Members with first signed by Robert Battelli for the new Article 31st. However, the Committee did not support the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 1 and the amendments already mentioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 91, which I have just mentioned. The Committee did not define itself until the following amendments, namely to the amendment of the Government to Article 2 which was tabled on 15 February this year because the withdrawal of this amendment is foreseen and to the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to Article 69 because the withdrawal is announced. Conclusion. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: the Committee on Foreign Policy supports the draft law on external matters and the proposed rapid procedure and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law, together with the amendments of the Committee, be considered and adopted. We also support and propose such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. He wants to speak with the representative of the secretariat.? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Aurelio Juri, on behalf of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues. During the coalition coordination of the law, the United List of Social Democrats made a number of comments and proposals for improvement. We are pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within which this text came, has taken into account the key suggestions and has only submitted corrections in the form of amendments to the table of government amendments present. In particular, we have pointed out the dispute and, for us, the inadmissibility of Article 8, paragraph 8, since its implementation would constitute a grave violation of the constitutional right to privacy and we are pleased to see the amendment of the government that eliminates such danger. We have pointed out the inadmissibility of reduced diplomatic knowledge criteria, in particular with regard to active knowledge of at least one of the world's languages. And this is where the right solution was found. We have also warned, among other things, about the partly deficient attitude of the ministry or government towards the State Council and local communities, particularly borderline, on foreign policy issues, but unfortunately the best solutions have not been reached. However, since it is not a key issue or important questions in this regard, and since the stakeholders themselves, I think of the Council of State and the municipalities, have not insisted on this, we have also satisfied ourselves with the reasons and reasons for the proposal. We will therefore be sure to support the bill. We will support all the amendments of the government and the Members and Members who have received the support of the Home Foreign Policy Committee. The other amendments will not receive our support We expect that the adoption of this law will enable and ensure, in accordance with the purposes for which it has emerged, more effective and European comparable foreign policy moves and a faster resolution of a number of open issues, in particular in relations with neighbours, and in the process of integration into Euro-Atlantic integration. Finally, the government assumes a much greater responsibility when Parliament is reduced in its role in carrying out certain external policy tasks. If I am allowed a personal comment in this regard, I cannot imagine that such an arrangement would not allow for a more agile resolution of problems than, for example, problems. in relations with Croatia, which have been dragging for a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go. Mr. Pache, you can join us for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	No, it's more appropriate here because the speaker's desk is too small for material, and if you don't mind, and I'm kind of looking at you all, I prefer it if I can stand here. Thank you. In the Slovenian National Party as an opposition political party, which is trying to create and maintain a certain relationship with the second branch of government, it seems extremely pointless, unrealistic for the National Assembly to lose that last lever to interfere with the field of external affairs. Slovenian diplomacy, in whatever way it sings praises to itself, thanks for such and other achievements, is in our opinion ineffective, in our opinion weak, too expensive and essentially dedicated to itself. It seems extremely unrealistic to us, or some of the suggestions in the law itself seem extremely unrealistic to us. For example, in order to destroy the role of this Parliament, these representatives of the people who have been elected and assigned to this task, in contrast to the employees of the Ministry, in order to identify themselves on a case-by-case basis. We transfer our powers to the Minister and thus to the Ministry. This is also intended to be the amendment of the leader of the Slovenian National Party of Victory of Jelinčič's parliamentary group, by which we also condition acceptance by our votes until this law is passed. In short, if the National Assembly does not support the proposal of the Victory of Jelinčič on the preservation or amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which talks about maintaining the role of the National Assembly and thus transparency to carry out activities under diplomacy, we will not support the law. Generally speaking, even the union proposal seems extremely unrealistic and uninhabited, even unworthy, for example, reports from the union. In the Slovenian National Party, we will contact the individual amendments. In any case, I call on all members of the National Assembly to support the amendment and, if they are not yet determined, to get to know it, perhaps also with us, and to see that the actual transparency, the deficit that is the greatest in our country, can only be maintained by the adoption of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Foreign Minister with co-workers. Allow me to present very briefly the position of our parliamentary group on this very important legal text, this is the law on external matters. Our parliamentary group will support it even though it is prepared through a business procedure called "fast", and it has been in the process for a number of months, although we have now decided to move forward quickly. [[...]] It would probably be wiser to go on a regular basis, but the decision has been made and we would not want to trouble you in any way. In the introduction, I would like to express my support, on behalf of the Group of Members, for the thought which Dr Dimitrij Rupel, the first Foreign Minister of Slovenia, has already reiterated here and then: that the National Assembly remains the centre of the implementation of Slovenian foreign policy under this law. I hope that this very important sentence that Dr. Dimitri Rupel put in here is accurate. We must acknowledge that if we have examined more carefully the provisions of the law, including the opinion of the secretariat, which was then adopted and some additional amendments have been prepared, this law is now addressing one of the important conceptual issues. The field of foreign policy is also one of those where it is necessary to separate the legislative and executive branches of government. Why? In particular, due to clear powers and responsibilities, including operationalism, we may also be able to say because of the experience of other countries, diplomatic powers, etc. However, we immediately add that, although it was a great specialty, and we were proud of it that the Committee on International Relations, the OMO and the current, had one of the few competences in European experience to give consent to, if I may mention this case, the candidates for ambassadors and ambassadors. This jurisdiction hasn't been bad, it's been good in the last ten years. It's rational to think about different decisions. Or this is necessary and wise, and whether we will in any way strengthen Slovenian foreign policy and make it as uniform as possible, but the second question is. We appreciate the efforts of the Foreign Minister, including his engagement with the letter. This is also one of the practices that is not normal, but for us it is positive. The letter was signed as foreign minister; the government is the government. By trying to follow the Committee's decisions as closely as possible in the vote on the amendments. We will listen to the government's argument, but - what I will say in the end - we will be able to break up with the government in one article in particular. We support the solutions that the proposer writes in order to allow further development, professionalisation of Slovenian diplomacy. We therefore accept the possibility that the law provides that persons outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may also be included in the diplomatic service if they meet legal conditions. We were familiar with the position of the Slovenian diplomats' union. This position has not convinced Members and Members on the competent working body. We also welcome the solution that the work experience gained between work in other fields, not only in the field of international relations, but also in state bodies, scientific research bodies, international organisations, and not only in the work experience gained in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are also considered to be a title. The biological and professional potential of Slovenia as a two-million-dollar nation is the same as it is. It is not small, it is not small, but it is necessary that marriage solutions are such that when searching for the best people for the most responsible diplomatic services, the law must not limit us in any way so that the able, ambitious and Slovenian countries can appoint dedicated diplomats and diplomats to positions of responsibility. With regard to the amendment to Article 91, I would like to say that the position forwarded by Ambassador Kacin is also our position. The committee, as is known, has not supported the government proposal. I hope, however, that in the debate itself, we will convince the government, or that the majority decision of the national assembly will be the same as the decision of the national working body. We are confident that the 10th anniversary is a good opportunity to put on new, modern, internationally comparable frameworks by this law, which we hope will be adopted by the National Assembly today or at the latest in the coming days, but also to take into account our parliamentary tradition, the one from 1990 onward, as well as all that has been good in Slovenian diplomacy. We are confident that a large majority of the proposed legislation will also be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Jelko Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Our Group of Members supports the law. And a quick procedure. That is why we have also voted and made it possible to vote on such a decision. On the 10th anniversary of the independence of the Slovenian State, it is appropriate to stress that everything we have achieved in the foreign policy field has been achieved within the framework of the existing law on external matters. This marriage has been the first, so far the only, and therefore the best we've ever had and have so far. Of course, we are aware that after ten years of experience and so successful development, not only of the performances of Slovenia on the international stage, but of the application of Slovenia as an entity of international relations, the time comes when this existing law needs to be supplemented, upgraded and made even more effective. What is most important, in the view of our Group, is to increase the operational capacity of our country, in particular the government, when it comes to the adoption of international agreements. Many times there have been important international agreements waiting for a turn. They waited for months, and even years after they had already been signed, for the government to draft the ratification law, because there was no ratification without the government's proposal. That is why I would like to defend the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as the Presidents, the President or the Acting President, the Vice-President who performed this function in one of the previous mandates, because there have been a lot of perceptions at the expense of the working body, and by injustice. Many things, when it comes to international treaties, have stopped at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's not a criticism right now, but it's an empirical conclusion. I am therefore convinced that, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, I can express my expectation that this service, the legal service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will be strengthened and trained to meet the challenges. In particular, the new emerging country will have many opportunities, needs and commitments in the process of our accession to the European Union, and we need active cooperation here. I would like to point out that we have never hindered the international integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the international area - even when we were in opposition - and that the National Assembly has stood by the efforts of all ministers to make our Ministry of Foreign Affairs work as effectively and convincingly as possible. It was pointed out in particular by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly and I am pleased that the Ministry or Government has taken sufficient time to coordinate. Thus we have come far enough to deal with this law today, in a swift manner. But there are still dilemmas and these dilemmas are not professional. These dilemmas, all the dilemmas are political. The question arises as to how many powers and responsibilities the national assembly or the home labour body should have in the field of foreign policy. That is why I believe that we will also find enough arguments further to consider and then decide on those amendments that are not yet in a uniform position. In particular, I would like to express my satisfaction, on behalf of the LDS Group, that the government has taken note of and does not oppose the amendment adopted by the home labour force to Article 14, that we are still giving an opinion on our diplomatic consular network. Of course, it is only a right to open our representation abroad. Although it is not a matter of agreement, I believe that every government will have to listen to the position of the parent working body if it has a reasonable consideration to do so. Of course, I find it most painful that my mother's working body has already approved the opening of some diplomatic representations in recent years, and this has not happened until today. The reasons are different, they are also financial, but I will take this opportunity to perhaps tell our public ten times that I expect Slovenia to be able to hang the Slovenian flag in New Delhi in due course, as there are quite a billion people living there. To be active in the organization of the United Nations and in the underdeveloped world, it seems to me not only an exceptional opportunity, but also our great, great commitment. On the other hand, as far as the issue is concerned, the other dilemmas, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would not like to discuss because each Member has the right to an assessment of the individual proposals. But certainly the LDS Group supports this law, which is before us with all possible affection, and also invites other Members to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Mr Aloise Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, Mr Minister. This law, or the applicable law on external matters, is undoubtedly necessary in the view of New Slovenia, not because of the 10-year-old of our country, but because we believe it is right for decisions to be made in the National Assembly that will modernise the law to make it more comparable to world regulation. In this context, we believe that this is already a sequence of three governments that have been united on key issues relating to amendments to this law, including the role of Parliament in the foreign policy decision-making process. In these 10 years, we have actually achieved a number of things within the framework of the law, but also beyond the law, because the law has not always been respected, especially when it comes to the duration of diplomats' mandates, which has not been respected so much from the highest cities. Clearly, the law itself does not guarantee legality, only those who take it seriously can guarantee it. Of course, the amended law also does not provide an aprioristic assurance for the end of the favor in this area. I wish, no matter what the law would look like in the end, that these favors of course would no longer be, that there would not be two coalitions, one in the government, one in Parliament, so that they would not fall as candidates for ambassadors as well as people with a clear professional past, which happened in one case a few days ago in this house. I hope that such practices will no longer exist, because clearly political spears have broken, not professional opinions on the professional person, with a diplomatic multi-annual past. So, in this sense, I hope that the law will actually help with different practices and that it will also define the placement of diplomats definitively as a matter falling under the executive branch of power. In this regard, I would like to say that New Slovenia will support the law and amendments supported by the Home Committee on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs! When the government proposed or submitted to the National Assembly, at the end of August, a proposal for a law on external matters following a rapid procedure, a period of search for longer-term solutions was completed, as recorded in the current law on external matters. During the 10 years, the practice in this area has significantly exceeded the solutions we have adopted in this building in 1991, and in some ways it is surprising that a new proposal has not been made before. To a large extent, this is not so much a consequence of the fact that there would be no need. There were needs, but very different views on certain solutions. Most of these views have crystallized in this debate and a very long government procedure. When the government sent a proposal to the National Assembly last year, it also cut off some of the dilemmas that have dragged on and repeated for many years. Above all in not so many, I will say, broader professional circles, but within the so-called interested public, where many who have participated in writing this law have, of course, seen in individual articles their own career, destiny and not least their own salary. I am glad that last August there was this decision to keep the law going. It has now taken almost another year to deal with the law. However, I am convinced that if this law, with some amendments that are necessary and essential, is adopted, the country will have the appropriate basis for its diplomacy. Here, we have heard a sentence from two different sides, as in this law the State Assembly, or Parliament, remains the centre of the foreign policy of the country. I would like to relativise this statement slightly, because the legislative authority is in fact the factor in the parliamentary state that sets the basic course of action of diplomacy, which sets out the strategy, the knowledge of policies, as well as the formal framework for the functioning of those engaged in such activities. Of course, the National Assembly is not the center of any operational diplomatic activity or diplomacy in any country. This is part of the executive branch which is responsible and also responsible. I'm glad that this law is quite specific about this matter. This dilemma surrounding the influence that the National Assembly, or the mother body of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy, should have on the specific appointments of ambassadors or ambassadors, of course there is this dilemma. In view of some political breadth, particularly in the composition of a national assembly such as this, this fact does not significantly affect, for example, the fact that the opposition could also participate more effectively in concrete foreign policy decisions. The fact is that the government also has a majority in this parent labour force and the National Assembly in general, and that this debate is a decision on this working body only reflecting a certain ratio of forces in the coalition, as has been shown in some recent cases when some solutions have been adopted and others have not. In short, this does not extend any national decision-making space. Of course, it is spreading the breadth of procedures in the ruling coalition itself, which has yet another option here to regulate certain matters differently than was previously agreed on at the government level. Whether this contributes to the quality of the solution or not, judge for yourself. In short, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will support this law, as will the majority of the amendments supported by the mother's working body, especially those that we have tabled ourselves. We are pleased, for example, that the mother's working body has also supported those supplements relating to the role or position of Slovenians in substitution and in the world, where this has, to a certain extent, been an untapped opportunity in ten years of the operation of our foreign policy and diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The opinions were presented by representatives of the parliamentary groups. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Roman Jakič applied in writing for an unlimited discussion. I give the floor to Mr Franz Puksic first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! It is right, as you yourself have mentioned, that in ten years we will be given the law on external matters in a new dress, as it is, in fact, quite a long time. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 5, includes the provision of care for indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries and for Slovenian expatriates and residents. At the end of this article it is also stated that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship will be provided with a special law. After ten years, it would also be appropriate to do more in this area, and this is, I will say, a kind of reminder to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the whole government. In view of the fact that after a long argument, however, there was a committee of the National Assembly for Slovenians around the world and in place, we also went to this law in our committee, and more. In the work programme itself, we have set ourselves up to prepare a resolution on Slovenians around the world as soon as possible; to modify the resolution on Slovenians in place, because it has somehow grown older, somehow becoming old since it was adopted in 1996. I hope that the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also engage and cooperate in this area. Both resolutions could also draw up a law on Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. The starting point for that is something. Much of this has also been done in the previous mandate of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world. Now let me go to the current law, to the draft law on external matters. At its 1st extraordinary meeting, on 12 April, the Commission considered the draft law on external matters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an interested working body. The Commission has examined the draft law from the point of view of relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. In the draft law, this area is explicitly restricted in Articles 14, 19 and 24. In its current law in Article 9, between the tasks of the administrative authority responsible for foreign affairs, paragraph 13 states: "In cooperation with other competent authorities and services, it shall take care of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and Slovenia around the world". The proposal does not retain the law of this Article in such a form, but lists the tasks of the Ministry in the second paragraph of Article 2. In this paragraph, the concern for the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and for Slovenians around the world has not been mentioned. Therefore, the Commission proposed to add in the second paragraph a reference to Article 13, point 9, to the legislation currently in force. In addition to the intensity of bilateral relations and economic cooperation, the Commission also supported the provisions of Article 14 in order to take into account the presence of the Slovenian national minority and of Slovenian expatriates and residents when deciding on the opening and closing of a representative office. Article 19 of the bill lists the tasks of the diplomatic representativeship and, in the second paragraph, takes into account the importance of cooperation with the Slovenian national minority and with Slovenian expatriates and residents to a greater extent than the law currently in force in Article 23(2). Article 24 of the bill setting out the functions of the consulate states in paragraph 4 the development of cooperation with the Slovenian national minority and with Slovenian expatriates and residents. This reduces the level of law now in force, which stated in article 29 between the tasks of the consulate that the consulate is developing cooperation with Slovenian expatriates and is particularly concerned about the preservation of Slovenian language and culture among them. Therefore, the Commission adopted the following amendments: the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 2, in the second paragraph, after the words "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carrying out matters relating to the global relations of the Republic of Slovenia with other countries and international organisations" added "in cooperation with other competent authorities and services concerned with the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and Slovenes around the world". In explanation of this amendment, which was also supported in the home labour body and also supported by the government, we have stated, of course, that the amendment, as we have put it, preserves the level of care for Slovenians in place and around the world, as provided by the applicable law on external matters and as set out in Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The statement, "takes care of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and Slovenians around the world", makes sense and is also necessary in view of the fact that, as a body within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Slovenian Office operates in place and around the world, carrying out tasks relating to the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and to Slovenian residents and expatriates around the world. Their cultural, educational and economic integration with the home country of the Republic of Slovenia affects information, advice and assistance in the field of legal protection, changes and coordination, activities, competences of ministries in the field of cooperation with Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, it is clear from this that the care of Slovenians is one of the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in place and around the world and is equivalent to the other matters referred to in the second paragraph. Certainly Slovenians need Slovenians in their place and Slovenians in their place need Slovenia, Mr Minister. And the amendment to Article 24, the fourth indent, is amended to read: "Development of cooperation with the Slovenian national minority and Slovenian expatriates and residents and special care for the preservation of the Slovenian language and culture among them". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Member Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I also believe that the law on external matters must be adopted as the 1991 law has, in spite of all that is out of date and to survive, or I agree with the dictatorship written by the Minister to our Members and Members, that, of course, the existing law of 1991 has allowed the exercise of two fundamental rights of the sovereign State. The right to self-representation in international relations and, of course, the right to conclude international treaties. The fact that I have been opposed to the speedy process from the outset has nevertheless proved justified in view of the fact that, despite the rapid process caused by the difficulties arising from the harmonisation of this law, it would have been quite a while and, in essence, if it had been brought down on a regular basis, of course this procedure would have been the same. In my opposition to the speedy process, I was convinced that the provisions, which is also set out in the declaration of compliance with the provisions of the European Agreement, do not directly relate to the material, except, of course, Article 74, which speaks of greater flexibility in the conclusion of international treaties and the introduction of acts of international organisations into the administrative order of the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased, of course, that most of the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters have been approved, established and accepted by the proposer, even at that point, which says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the co-formulators of foreign policy in the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, also appears in other acts. I must say that I was one of those who, in coordination with the coalition, was very critical of the kind of exclusivity that led to that first draft. Exclusive in the sense that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that institution within the government or the ministry that can and has the opportunity to recruit diplomats. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister himself, in the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, in some way, or in those observations, has been able, together with his colleagues, to ensure that the so-called horizontal transition is also within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Because I think it would be unwise to close the door, if we know that there are other ministries - the government service for European affairs has been mentioned, but of course there are other ministries where qualified people are able to take over cities in Slovenian diplomacy. The fact that, in some way, these corrections recognised the right to co-form foreign policy, in fact, encouraged me to say something else that I must say that this is a valued category by the government, not by others, especially within Parliament. It is, of course, a fact that in Slovenia, I feel, is under-appreciated by parliamentary diplomacy. Once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I know that in this respect too, the Minister, of course, shares a different opinion. Some, even in this house, I must admit, are of course of the opinion that this parliamentary diplomacy is just a tourist adventure or an opportunity to travel. Of course, when something goes wrong, the same thing always rises up and raises a voice. Remember the critics at the expense of leading the delegation of Comrade Pahor to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, when everyone was looking in detail for who of the Slovenian Members and Members was present and who was not. I have to say, and that is why I have taken this opportunity not to accept such perceptions, that it is tourism, but it is a concrete work that I think we will do well, especially when our fellow Members in the European Parliament have to lobby at bilateral level, because they will be the only ones who will ratify Slovenia's agreement with the European Union or accept us as full-fledged membership. And for this, of course, commends the Foreign Ministry and the Minister for taking parliamentary diplomacy seriously and encouraging it in terms of supporting Members and Members with the materials we need at meetings on the international scene. If I return to law, after all these corrections that have been made, the three questions remain open. I am pleased that the ministry or government believes it is right that the Committee on Foreign Policy should also give an opinion on the enlargement of the DKP network. I think that this is right, and that Parliament - last but not least, Parliament is the one who cuts the budget cake or confirms it or does not confirm it - and it is good that the Committee on Foreign Policy also has the opportunity to look at and deliver an opinion on the enlargement of the DKP network. As regards the acquisition of titles or the deletion of work experience in Article 91, this is the second issue that remains open and is on the agenda. I must say that I will support here the position of the Foreign Policy Committee, and I think it is right that the work experience here, of course, is also in relation to this horizontal future, and it is right that this is the way it is. Finally, there are opinions or consensus on the appointment of an ambassador or ambassador. It is my personal belief, Minister, that it is right that a candidate or candidate should be presented before a parent's working body, because of the fact that the mother's working body or Members and Members operating in the international field have some insight. But it's probably not, and I'm going to end it, a good way to make this decision of your mother's working body, not to give consent to a career diplomat at the last hearing. And, Minister, I ask that you personally convey my personal apology to the candidate, Mrs Darji Bavdaš Kuret, for a decision that has also been made with my help or with my inactive decision on her future diplomatic career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jelko Kacin also made a written statement. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After, in fact, precisely after ten years of deliberation and drafting a new law on external matters, it seems to me that this is the right one and should also be an opportunity to discuss Slovenian diplomacy, the state, our needs and the challenges for the future. So I don't want to talk too personally about these things. However, I think it is appropriate to draw attention to some of the facts, which is why it seems to me to take into account the situation in our diplomacy, the best way to quote the first man of our diplomacy, Mr Minister. At our meeting of the committee on 13 April this year, Mr Minister also said the following. "I have great hope, Mr President, that in the coming years we will fill a reservoir of smart, well-educated, diplomatically skilled people. Slovenian diplomacy is exhausted, Mr President, and therefore you are absolutely right to attach the main thrust of this law's thinking, which, if I say so, is also against unionism and against the exclusion of those already employed. They just happened to come to work one day at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that's why they're supposed to have more rights." I do not agree with this and support this thought of you, and I think that our amendments and our discussions are still today and until this act is passed, I would say, the prevention of exclusiveism. This position seems extremely important to me. It is important that we accompany this law with a positive charge so that at the next stage, what is said here, we can turn it into facts. I would like to draw my attention to the fact that many of our diplomats are just ahead of us in the coming months, that there is a large-scale reconstruction of our network ahead of us, that many diplomats are actually at the end of their term of office, and that in the key stages of joining NATO and the European Union there is a very difficult and very professional work ahead of us. That is why I think I would like to express my expectation that the ministry will indeed be strengthened and that the human resources solutions and proposals will be such as to help the minister and the government. But to us and to the parliamentarians when we come to visit these countries with pride and satisfaction. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to one point raised by our Minister, which concerns Article 17. I quote: "I have no objection to the installation of the mechanism that has been in place so far, but we must note that our solution, as we have had in the present law, is unique. It's only typical of the American system." This conclusion is correct. She's honest and, of course, I don't mind if we have solutions that are similar to the American system. I am personally convinced that the Committee on International Relations in previous references, when I did not actively participate in it myself, and also in the final conclusion and the beginning of the mandate, has actually weighed the candidates' candidates' nominations. And it would be difficult to say that there has been a very serious injustice, at least for the last term and to start a mandate, so I have clear and unequivocal arguments. Therefore, of course, it grieves me in some way when the government is trying to find arguments in every way to avoid active participation in the expansion or validation of the most responsible people in our diplomatic network. I'm not talking about the consular network, I'm just talking about ambassadors at bilateral embassies and our missions abroad. This Article, on the basis of which we have agreed or have not agreed on so far, has in fact been a mechanism that has not only connected the government and the Parliament, but has also made it clear to diplomats that it is not only the executive power, that there is also a legislative authority and that we have a lot in common here, but in particular common challenges that we can respond to in a manner that is appropriate or less appropriate. For the second time in this mandate, I am the president of this working body, and therefore I believe that Mr Minister will understand that I do not want to support the efforts made to limit the competence of the working body, especially because I think that the working body is working well. Of course, I also do not intend to apologize in the way that my colleague Jakič did. Because I have defined myself differently from him and I have defined myself negatively and I have also made arguments for it and I can quote them again. Of course, I would only be happy if the government would give so much confidence to the national assembly and yet come to the realization that professional diplomats have no fear of being confirmed by their mother's working body if they are indeed professional diplomats. But there is no need for false solidarity when someone is given mistrust in order to develop unionism. That's unnecessary. I think that diplomats will also have to take care of each other's reputation in the future and that this will contribute most to the reputation of all together and diplomacy as a whole. You know, it also happened to us that people who were preparing for the diplomatic service simply made creative contributions that were not copyrighted contributions, in which there was no proper analysis, even if they were formally engaged in analyses where there was not exactly any related or comprehensive sentence, but only the indents were strung as students did when they were preparing a sketch for a possible address. That is why, of course, I would like to reinforce this thought, to conclude by quoting once again our Foreign Minister. His thought, expressed at the second session, is also to the committee: "I do not believe that from this day forward it can ever happen that someone on the wallpaper would be the subject of a conversation who would experience a lack of confidence in the course of this conversation. I must say that I am against the fact that, of course, I will also stand up for this, so that the government will appoint incompetent candidates for ambassadors. That's bad for the state, that's bad for the foreign ministry, that's for the foreign minister of shame. So don't expect anything like this to happen again." Of course, such a word pleases me and calms me down. That is why I believe that the ministry will continue to work towards presenting us with as many candidates as possible. And I myself will support the amendment concerning the preservation of our consent. Not because I would like to do heartburn to a fellow minister, but simply because we have come to Parliament with a general mandate. Based on the experience that some of us have, historical experience in these very halls, I have decided to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The debate of other Members and Members who have not applied in writing is limited to five minutes. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, then Mr Joseph Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! I also agree that a new law on external matters is necessary and that certain provisions of the previous law have already become an anachronism. However, in my debate, I will limit myself to just two things that arise from existing practices, and where I personally wonder whether the new law actually deals adequately with the situation achieved on the basis of practice. In fact, I will also touch Article 17 myself, which is to say that the consent of the National Assembly has been lifted. I agree to some extent with the Minister's remarks on the kind letter that this solution is at least specific to European affairs. I can't say, because the minister didn't say it either, because, as we just heard, they have such a solution in the United States. I wonder, however, whether our authority is actually mature enough to be able to give in full to European flows in this area. It seems to me that as long as the Foreign Policy Committee has decided differently than diplomacy has decided, there is no real remedy. If I put things the other way around, it has often happened that the foreign ministry or the government has not proposed a suitable candidate for us. How else can I explain my past case when even no one from the government coalition has submitted a candidate for the ambassador if I have understood correctly because I have not been to the previous meeting, Mr Kacin. Mr Kacin is even questioning the Minister's competence on the basis of his own statements. The second example is that I think that the Committee on Foreign Policy has even in some way taken a responsible and qualitative decision or that the State was being avenged if the factors of foreign policy did not respect its decisions. Examples from a few years ago when the OMO at the hearing confirmed the candidate for Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China. For political reasons, however, the President of the country did not wish to sign the accreditation decision. It happened that the next choice was poorer and that Slovenia had been embarrassed and that those responsible did not take responsibility for the scandal that took place in Beijing. The other thing that interests me is also on the basis of the current experience already achieved. Indeed, in Article 27 of the new law provides and I believe that it has also provided for the former to establish a fixed-term working relationship between the foreign ministry and diplomatic representatives, which is not longer than four years. However, I would like to know whether the new law provides that some foreign policy factors do not abuse the fact that they must respect this. I have a case where, despite the fact that the Foreign Minister has resolved some of those provisions in the law, some diplomats have already far exceeded their four-year service, and despite the fact that the same opinion has been expressed by the diplomats' union, it has not been respected, once again, because of political calculations and leading calculations, that, given the relationship for a certain period of almost four years. I think that, based on experience, the foreign ministry should, in fact, be protected, also incorporated into the law, that all the factors of Slovenian foreign policy will adhere to the law and that they will respect the legal solutions set out here. In this case, this separation is irrelevant to a number of types of diplomats, for by disregarding the law we can fully evaluate these criteria, which are now enshrined in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and escort! I am pleased that the final law drawn up by the government of Dr. Bayuk has, after many complications and proposals, arrived at the end of the day for the vote. The problem of our foreign policy over the last ten years, I think, could be identified with the following points: the quality of the diplomatic assembly was not first-class; secondly, the foreign ministry was distinguished by its closure; thirdly, it did not respond; fourthly, it worked quite domestically; and fifthly, there was a great lack of strategic vision and therefore we are also in such a bad position in some areas. Good. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that the marriage has finally come to us, and although it is not perfect, it seems to me that it is inappropriately better than it was before. I'd like to mention a few points that we should think about later. Indeed, it is about how we will improve the quality of our diplomatic assembly as well as the quality of people in the foreign ministry. The law won't do that, but it can help. Look, this law eliminates contract diplomats, which in itself is not a bad idea. However, it allows the possibility that people from other state authorities are potential candidates to work in diplomacy. I wonder why we would not be more open here and allow the possibility of people coming to the diplomatic assembly, not from public services, but from private practice and so on. The more we close this area, the more we red tape and there will be no fresh wind. Let me mention here that if anyone has not yet thought from our opposition parties that perhaps later, when one of these parties comes to the government, they will perhaps reach out to the American model, which is that those diplomats or those who have very well supported the party will be called diplomats around the world. Well, that's just for the fun of it. The current coalition does not need this because it has not "started with zero" as any opposition "starts with zero", economically and so on. However, it seems to me that this space should be much more open here. Why not some Slovenian from the world? We have many qualified people, but to this day none have been appointed to diplomatic office. We got some honorary consulates, consuls, which is just fine. Now I hear there's even a possibility that there might be two honorable consuls in a place in Canada, which is completely illogical and pointless for me, unless someone owes someone something. Another time. Article 40 discusses how diplomats or candidates for diplomatic posts must apply for a public course, a competition. I may be completely ignorant about this, but I don't know when the last competition was and who signed up for this competition. Then there's some select committee that chooses the candidates, and now this committee is appointed by the minister. I think it's a completely wrong reception. Understandably, the minister himself likes to control his things or people and offices. But where is civil society here? Is civil society supposed to have something to say about the choice of candidates? Surely we would not have such people in diplomatic service, at least some of whom we have today. Look. The other thing that I think is that the Ministry lacks some kind of inspectoral service, although here is the possibility of assigning an inspector of the rank of diplomats. However, this is not a completely independent function that would really control what is happening in the Ministry, particularly in the financial field. When I watched, say, some reports from the Court of Auditors, I wondered how it was possible that something like this could happen. Well, that should be further defined. Another time. There is also a kind of diplomatic academy here, which I don't know what it does, how it works, who teaches, etc. But here I think it probably occurred to me that there was one sort of "inbreeding" -- the same diplomats who did these things, then new diplomats learn the same things they did. That's what you're saying. There can't be any progress. If I understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	Mr Bernik, if you'll excuse me, from business correctness to other colleagues and colleagues, please finish the thought, five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I took your message. That's all I wanted to say is that it would be necessary to send younger people out, and I guess that's what happens, but I don't know what the relationship is between diplomacy or the diplomatic academy and these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will also use this for a smaller replica of Mr Bernik, and I would tell him that in spite of all of this, something called American payments through history, the appointment of people to the embassy and other cities in Slovenia in so-called all governments has already been. Some then also proved to be non-problemistic so that they would not always ask questions. I would also like to say that I know at least one case when, I think, Dr Bonita, as well as the American citizen, has become our ambassador, and I don't know if it's the same for Dr. Falez, who has passed his mandate, there can be anyone else. All these things have already happened, and I think diplomacy is certainly good and welcome. What I would like to say to the law is that it is good at the part where it eliminates part of these stories that we knew when the law was coming in as a branch of foreign policy, and in this regard I welcome solutions that more precisely share the powers of the government and the position of others when it comes to foreign policy. I am also in favour of greater autonomy of the government and the foreign ministry, perhaps there was some solution even too little in the law that we have before us today and took too too much account of the good practices of colleagues Jakič and Kacin. These good practices are the fruit of some semi-family relationships that the National Assembly has worked with various ministers, ministries, over three mandates, and this is not always the best thing for the system itself. Of course, when I support greater government and ministry autonomy, I also expect less trade unionism in the Ministry on the other hand. This seems crucial to me, not in the sense of opposing the professions, but in the sense that they are only people who serve the country and are first state officials and then protect the circle of those who are in the Court of Youth and in the relevant buildings. Speaking of which, I find it problematic in this law that this, I'm just going to say, is a service that is divided into external and internal, fully applied for its titles of diplomatic titles. We have had a great discussion for years in Slovenia about the need to do something about the situation of public servants, and of course I think they are diplomats, but especially people who are employed in the Republic of Slovenia and who are engaged in foreign policy professionally, first of all public servants. And if we want these things to be comparable to each other, then regardless of the fact that this law also brings this possibility, it is problematic that they use their special titles, it is the custom that anyone has experienced any title, is reluctant to get rid of it, because it is good for him, even when booking a room or in the inn or when presenting with a card and so on, even when he no longer does these things. But what I think is absolutely essential is that when we think about these things in a new way, we still take this as an integral part of this government that provides some kind of partial or operates in some sector. And from this point of view, there's going to be confusion with these people who are ambassadors, or else we'd be consultants 1, 2, 3, I don't know what this 91st paragraph is saying. On the inside, then, the problem is because, of course, both of these proposals, these amendments, as well as the basic proposal, bring some special situation to diplomats who, in my opinion, do not do well in two cases. There is no reason for the Secretary-General to be a diplomat. I can't see. Because there are other things, because otherwise diplomats should also be given conditions so that they may hypothetically be secretaries of state. Nor is it when we are talking about supervision of financial and other business in Articles 7 and 8. I'll be in touch if I have to talk to an individual article. Thank you for your understanding of the little overstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogomir Zámernik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say that I have listened with interest to these verbal arguments, apologies and excuses regarding the not-so-distant event concerning the appointment of an ambassador to Japan. Only, of course, since I am not a member of the foreign policy committee, is what I was able to learn about in this regard, as far as my colleagues have told me and as much as I can read in the daily newspaper. There, I think that I have seen as the main reason for the vote against this candidate of the gentleman who voted against it, the only reason why a woman in the Arab-Asian world cannot be successful is because of the fact that a woman in the Arab-Asian world cannot be successful. I don't know where these people are now, who are kind of advocating equality. The one who cited this as the main argument is the co-signatory of the law which is supposed to regulate equality. However, I now ask whether this equality is only a fictional character, or is only advocated for equality. For this gentleman is also the head of the Foreign Policy Committee. And now I ask him whether perhaps the Japanese foreign minister would not accept an official visit if she wanted to come here in such an active diplomatic game of our country. I also ask the Minister. However, although they are somehow on opposite shores, the minister is a member of the same party as a person who did not vote for a woman who is supposed to be an ambassador to Japan, where they have a woman as a minister. I ask the same question as a colleague who runs the Foreign Policy Committee, including the Minister, what he thinks about it. Does he also believe that women in the Asian East could not be successful in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Jelko Kacin. But before that, allow your fellow Members to stick to the topic of the agenda, this is the law on external matters, because these individual cases, which you would like to highlight now, I do not think are the themes of today's agenda. Mr. Jelko Kacin, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I answer and object because the question has been addressed directly to me. That is why I would like to reply to my colleague, the Ambassador, something that actually bothers him and wants an answer. I'll tell you that, and I'll tell the government. I myself will not support any candidate for an ambassador who has ever spent four years on high diplomatic duties in a country and does not write in his CV that at least passively speaks the language of the country in which he has served for four years. I won't support such candidates. There was a case like this. For those who have seen the thesis written there, once again, I say: there was nothing very authoritarian, absolutely nothing analytical, anything to show that a person is seriously facing the challenge that is ahead of him. And since it's a person who's going abroad for state expenses, I've decided not to support a candidate or a candidate. Whether she goes ahead or not, these are now other questions. If a law were passed without this Article, the government can try again. But even at the hearing, I say, I will say my own concerns, because it is a person who, in my opinion, does not meet the criteria. If the Secretary of State who is here is going to run for office, and he's going to write his resume, and it won't say passively that he speaks Swedish because he's been in Sweden for so many years, I'll be amazed. But, I'm sorry, this is the basis of a diplomatic profession - to speak the languages of the countries where people were the whole mandate. That's it, that's very simple stuff. Secondly, who is being sent somewhere, whether sex may be obstructed or not, Mr Zammernik, if I am not mistaken, will be corrected in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have this moment, I think that four ambassadors abroad, Hungary, Belgium, Slovakia and Sweden, I apologize, at least four, there may be some other place - still in Strasbourg, I apologize! Five ambassadors and all of them received support from the Foreign Policy Committee, all of them received support. So sex is not a restriction, there is no restriction on the board. It could be a problem in some country. Besides, I haven't found a case yet, but you tell me because you're better at covering it up, maybe some woman in the Vatican is an ambassador, but I don't think she is. However, this is irrelevant; you are challenging me and I am answering you in this way. But since you asked me why I voted like that, I'll say it again. That is why I voted - I say this publicly, I do not apologize to anyone, and now once again I say the final thought with which I began. The minister and I are not on different shores. We are both committed to strengthening foreign policy. However, we can have a slightly different experience, but above all we have different roles. I believe that if Mr Minister were here in Parliament, he would behave somewhat differently than a minister. His role is executive, mine is legislative. But I have been in both roles, I have been both in the government and now in Parliament, so I have my life experience, and on the basis of these I also define myself. Unlike some, I do it publicly. I'll say it again, I've identified myself. Many others didn't. No one has identified themselves. Some were even gone and ask them why they had not been identified. The candidate didn't go into the procedure because no one supported her, not because I opposed her. Because no one supported her! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Valentin Pohorec has entered the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Foreign Minister and co-workers! We are on the threshold of a 10-year stand-alone path in international relations as a single, sovereign and democratic country, and at that time we are adopting a new law on external matters. I believe that a new law is needed because our current situation and developments in the world, our efforts in the international field, especially our efforts to join the European Union, NATO and other global associations, and our links with countries around the world, where we have our particular interest. That is why I think it is necessary to amend the law in this area. There are still great tasks and responsibilities ahead of our diplomacy, so there is also a need for such a law that will make it easier for them to work, more flexibility and I think that this law also brings. In front of our national authorities, from the National Assembly to its home bodies operating in the international field, there are also responsibilities in the foreign policy field. Diplomacy, the President of the State and the Prime Minister are an important activity of foreign policy. In foreign policy, integration in the economic field is particularly important. I think that's the number one you should always be following. It should be followed by political, cultural and other interests. If we are also witnessing the historic meeting between the President of the United States, Bush, and the President of Russia, Putin, at the 10th year of our country, we can see that our foreign policy so far has been recognizable, positive, respected in international relations and that it also enjoys its reputation. Therefore, there are no reasons for many critical views back, but let us go to law and forth. I will support the law, as proposed, with amendments that have the support of the government or the support of the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The MPs who have opened the dilemma also want to be answered by the minister. Dr. Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to say a general thing that seems to me to refer mainly to paragraphs 14 and 17. I think one of the Members has escaped a formulation that I think is interesting. Rather, the government trusts the national assembly or that the government has to trust the national assembly. I think it is more wrong, of course, for the National Assembly to trust the government and trust it with distrust. And when she doesn't trust her anymore, then she's voting for an untrustworthy woman, which, of course, has happened in our history, and we've demonstrated our democracy. If the National Assembly expresses its confidence to the government, if it also expresses its trust with the Foreign Minister or the Foreign Ministry, then of course it would be expected to trust the government's choices with regard to the country's representatives abroad. Parliament, the National Assembly, is discussing and deciding on some of the most important policy issues in this country and also foreign policy. But he doesn't deal with every detail. Of course, it is always a matter of assessing whether, for example, consent to the Ambassador's assembly is a detail or not a detail. However, this National Assembly decides on the health budget and on what subsidies are, say, individual hospitals and so on. However, the National Assembly does not decide on such important matters as who will be the head of the individual clinic, who will operate on a patient, and so on, because it has the authority of the government and the smaller authorities to do so. For there is a division of work. I do not want to say anything but to ask Members and Members to reconsider this matter and to decide in fact on their beliefs and even on the basis of rationality. I would like, if allowed, to say something first about Article 91, about an article that speaks of the years that are necessary to achieve a title. I must say the following in this regard. With the amendment to Article 91, the Government proposed deleting work experience as a condition for obtaining a diplomatic title. This Article applies only to the translation of the titles of employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when the new law is in force. In these cases, it is not justified to link the translation of the title to an additional condition. For appointments to the title, years of work experience are one of the conditions. The length of work experience will be determined by the Government by a general act on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If the law in article 91 added the years needed to achieve a title, it would give diplomats the conditions that others do not have or could cause some confusion. However, my principled view is that it is also necessary to give the wording of this law the opportunity to those who are better, more concerned, more educated, even if they are young, even if they have less experience for a year. Sometimes it is necessary, especially in the state administration, to take into account the initiative and also the willingness to work, perhaps more than formal sitting at work. But of course, you will also decide on this matter as you consider it to be best. I cannot help but say my opinion or express the government's opinion. I have listened carefully to the debates, questions raised by fellow Members. The Member of Parliament, Dr. Bernik, speaks of the fact that it is not possible to employ people or that this law does not allow the employment of people outside the government. I must find that this issue is resolved, however, just as he wishes or as he interprets it right, in Article 39. See, comparative regulations and our arrangements know the special arrangements of certain categories of civil servants, such as police officers, customs officers, soldiers and diplomats. These staff members shall be subject to a general arrangement, unless otherwise regulated in a specific law on a particular matter. Well, this is also the approach to the draft law, which is prepared in this part, also taking into account the future regulation of public servants, as foreseen in the proposal for a law on public servants, which the Government has already submitted to the National Assembly. As regards the question of who a diplomat may be and as regards the openness of the system, the question in Article 39 is very clear. There are also speeches about the possibility of entering the job, I quote, "with the work experience in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the work experience gained during the work of international relations in other state bodies is regarded as equivalent as "and scientific research and higher education institutions and in international organisations". In short, however, the matter is open. More open than you might have thought. As far as internal control or inspection is concerned. This is regulated by Article 8 of the Law, which speaks of internal control; otherwise, our ministry, like all other ministries, is subject to the Ministry of Finance when exercising control and, of course, to the Court of Auditors. A brief response to my colleague, Mr. Ambassador, regarding women in diplomacy and the complication of the Foreign Policy Committee. It is clear that our proposal has been considered that we have considered that the government has stood behind this proposal. We regret such a vote as it did, or because, as I understand it, it was only one against what it was, I would say, an unusual outcome. We think that women can be extremely pervasive diplomats, ambassadors. We have really good experience with some of our colleagues. This also applies to a candidate who has been dealt with in the Foreign Policy Committee. I wouldn't want to talk more now, because I think the thing is, I'd say, almost irrelevant. In principle, I think that any different position, any position that does not recognise the equality of women, would be extremely problematic for this assembly and for our ministry, for the government and for this country, is probably very controversial. If I can get back to the discussion, my fellow schoolboy. In part, I explained what my colleague, Školč, said in connection with Article 91, said. In short, this article translates titles from administration into diplomatic titles. It is only a simple translation of titles that are common to administration into titles that are common in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here, of course, we do not think that it would actually be necessary to impose additional restrictions on those working with us. And for the Secretary-General. In fact, there is no need for her to be a diplomat and that is also the case with A, Školč said it was unnecessary for her to be a diplomat. [[...]] That is so in all ministries or in all the systems that we know and compare our solutions to in our marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude Mr Jerovšek, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I have listened exemplaryly to the Minister and, of course, at the principle level, I agree with the Minister that the State Assembly trusts the government and expects on this basis that the State Assembly will also trust the Minister with regard to the election of the Ambassador. At the same time, however, I recall his answer to my question on "hearing" when I asked him how many foreign ministers the government would have. He couldn't answer that exact question, but he answered that we were all after a small foreign minister. Now I wonder which foreign minister then [[...]] [[Laugh.]] The National Assembly trusts. [[...]] In view of this response, which I am taking into account and as a fact, it is then the fact that one foreign minister did not want to send an ambassador to China who was elected. The same foreign minister did not want to respect the length of Ambassadors' term of office recorded in the law. The other foreign minister says that women are not fit to perform diplomatic service in the Asian world. And I could continue to cite such cases. From this point of view, I believe that the National Assembly will have another role to play in the selection of ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, then he has the word of Dr. Bayuk. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	Just a quick answer to my colleague Jerovska. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has one foreign minister. That statement at the time, I remember well, but it was intended, I would say, was metaphorical, it was a statement that meant to say that, of course, foreign policy is the responsibility of all of us, and in some way when we travel abroad, we are all somehow responsible for the appearance, for the reputation, for prestige, for the conduct of "vis--avis" to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just an explanation to my colleague Kacin, who is obviously very interested in the Vatican situation. I am not a specialist myself, but I do know that the United States Ambassador to the Vatican was a woman; now she is gone and has been for several years. So, for your behavior when you're so interested in the Vatican and the various agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. You want a replica, Mr. Skolch? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	I just want to thank you for explaining. My opinion was not explicit that the Secretary-General should not be a diplomat, but I am pleased that the Minister says he does not necessarily be a diplomat. For I have asked the question whether it is essential that it is. And I also believe that it is not necessarily a diplomat, if it is the Secretary-General, who is to exercise some control over the various parts of the operation of the external network. But the one where I don't think we understand each other is the translation of titles. I don't mind which line is translated into which line. My question was whether it was necessary for that state office sitting in Mladic to have these titles. I think this will cause confusion, given that we do not have this long-standing tradition and it is in this sense - in my opinion, but I do not think that this is the most dramatic part of the law, and I also imagine that this was not the idea of a minister, but of those who have, as I said before, like appropriate business cards - that we simply keep all the officials in the country in the same title. I think that makes more sense. They are comparable to each other, but when they go into the external network, they are compared accordingly. In this respect, there is a comment. Otherwise, I also agree with this on the removal of work experience, transition and I do not know what. But thank you very much. I won't get in the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, Mr. Lois Peterle, Mr. Minister would explain it to Mr. Scholch, and then I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. The Foreign Ministry is so specific as compared to other ministries that it obviously has a whole range of external contacts. He communicates daily with representatives of other foreign ministries, with foreigners and so on. We have experienced many times that those who work in Ljubljana have these Slovenian titles, and foreigners have not recognized them as their colleagues. As a result, we are in fact now implementing a system that means comparability with professions and jobs by other foreign ministries. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jelko Kacin has a replica of the implementation of the Minister, and then indeed Mr Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I appreciate your efforts when it comes to the argument of admitting the government's amendment to article 91. What's actually the problem here is the connection between two things. We are not only talking about translating the existing titles by adopting this law, but we are talking mainly about what the Steves talked about below. You're talking about the rapid advancement of capable diplomats. That's what this is about. If an article regulates the translation of an existing state into a new state in accordance with a list of terms or with a pyramid structure, then this is something other than rapid progress. But don't mind if I make a comparison. And this comparison will be very graphic. The whole world is amazed by the Republic of Slovenia, which has generals who are 30 years old and have majors who are 25 years old. And they never commanded any major units. That's what this is about. We're a small country. I agree that the terms must be comparable so that they know who to deal with. But moving too quickly within professional structures is exactly what we agree on. Just as you probably agree, the dalisto who's in the army is not good. And that this does not in any way contribute to the reputation, credibility of the Republic of Slovenia, nor is it good progressing too quickly. This, of course, always causes dilemmas. There are exceptions. And because of the exceptions, there is no need to change the rules. I believe that there is always a chance that the government, the Minister, based on the work of the effectiveness of the individual worker, will decide and solve individual problems. But what is now the result of the amendment, as I read it, may be that I read it wrong, but it is the mandate to make progress at any time, depending on how many ministers are to be classified. If you remain in this position for a long time - I wish you a long time - then I'm afraid that will be a little bit. But if things happen to us, then every minister will do his generals. And that's not good. Then suddenly we have generals like leaves and grass and no Indians. The chiefs do, but the Indians don't. And that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Would you like to do it again, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	Yeah, I'll just say one sentence. Comrade Kacin, you can see that we're both getting older and that for the last few years, it's very important. Perhaps for those younger than we are, the years are not so important and want to make rapid progress. In the state administration, we have little money to reward very capable people. This is a problem that I face every day - too little money, we can not pay the most capable experts. This is a major problem in the state administration of Slovenia. If we cannot do another, let us at least allow them to make rapid progress. With this in mind, we also, I would say, recommend a different formulation of this article in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Aloise Peterle. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. It's a great deal of patience for me because you didn't ask me to let the Minister speak again. But I'm not going to talk about the right to order in this house right now. I would like to refer to the Minister to the word "complex" in the Committee on Foreign Policy. Look. I haven't been on this committee, but I'm pretty sure I know how it went. There was no complication. It's just that what's been said to happen has happened. Since some part of the LDS of this candidate once opposed another city, this has also happened again on this occasion. This was logic within the coalition - or even too much said - within the LDS game. I would imagine and expect that in some normal democratic country, a coalition of this kind will take place between itself before sending a man to this house or anywhere. However, it harms itself, harms the country and destroys a person who, first of all, trusts him 100% in the government, then allows himself here without the voice of support, that in her opinion the best candidate for a city in a country falls, whether a candidate in this case has close to 20 years of work experience, if I am not mistaken, who has already been an ambassador, with good grades, and what she suddenly has here is an assessment, so it probably works out, a person who has not received so much confidence, or a vote for it, is called. So, I wonder how such a person -- I'm not talking about a name -- should run for office. Because this drago, that the national assembly, of course it will not be said that Kacin did not support her, but did not receive support in the national assembly, went around the world. Where else to run after this experience, because this - some prefer to speak English - "record" will go with it, I suppose. I say that it is unfair to destroy people in this way and to stress that this is a person who has not been explicitly experienced by politics but by professional salary, and this has been talked about so much. But when there was a name that obviously wasn't agreed on in the LDS, there would be an expression of the highest or worst policy, I would call it. So some people in this house have fallen. Well, it wasn't a complication, but it was just an ugly game. I would like to see to it that the government actually makes sure, within its coalition coordination, that these things do not happen after the candidate makes preparations and comes in here. Because there will also be opinions, and even if there is a negative opinion, it will not work with as much force as this decision, which was still an agreement, but something similar. And now one more thing, a replica to the question of the author's work of a candidate or candidate. Look, I'd like to ask you which candidate is able to write a totally copyrighted sex or copyright in a country. All the candidates so far, as I know, have used better or worse authors on a subject and have tried to squeeze the best out of the material they had. And I can't imagine anyone starting to discover America and going there for five years and then writing a work of art. So if the candidate has picked up quotes or material from elsewhere, that is, of course, her virtue, not her weakness. However, in order to be able to say that there is not one single sentence of her, as I understand Mr Kacin, I think it is very, very sad exaggeration again. And I'd say this at the end, and then I won't pick up. Once again, I would like to say that the laws would apply to one government and another government, so that one government would not be subject to the profession in such a way, and the other government would do the most services to Slovenian diplomacy. What happened in the previous term, and I hope that it will no longer be repeated that the law will not apply, so this must end. From the first to the last level that decides about people. We have had situations where the President has not already signed an approved appointment or after the agreement has already been given here. It was a case that first happened. Then he did not sign the appeals requested or proposed by the government under the law and we had extended mandates without a legal basis and so on. In short, I hope, although the law itself does not guarantee that different practices will follow. The same goes for the Consulate General. It cannot be considered that the expertise is solely the one proposed by the LDS. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Peterle. Just let me explain the possibility. I gave you the word, and then there were the types of replicas, and since the replicas have priority before the debate, I apologized to you, so I think the order of conversations was quite correct. Dear colleagues, allow me to suspend our meeting for a moment. I have the honour to welcome Mr Miloš Zeman, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. [[Let's hear it.]] Welcome. Mr Peterlet would like to replicate Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, it's not a replica. I'd like to tie up everything I've said before. I want us to go back to the content of this law. Everything that has been said so far about a particular case, of course without a name, seems to me to confirm or possibly have a positive impact on some of the small changes proposed in the amendments to this law. So I would also say that there would be no misunderstandings and rumours at a certain consensus in an institution. I have witnessed, like Mr Peterle, that through diplomatic services it is also heard how and how we treat candidates for certain embassies. I therefore assess, even in a specific case, that the amendment to Article 17, which in some way gives the right, that a specific foreign policy committee should agree to appoint, that within this consensus within this national assembly, it would in some way help or ultimately also partially decide, and that it would not indicate such or otherwise, I will say in a narrative, a strange picture. At the same time, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, Minister Dimitri Rupl, who, with a particular form of the letter, informed us all of the contents of this letter, of the novelty of the new or new law or of the bill that we are talking about, because it seems to me that we have also received for the first time a respectful relationship between the executive branch and the work of this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, I agree with the first part of your implementation because I allowed the debater to move away from the darkness, and this caused replicas. Despite my warning, I really ask that in the future we stick to what we have on the agenda, and we do not take advantage of this for things that do not fall within this framework. I take it that no one else, Mr. Rider, would you like to discuss it? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	I would simply ask out of curiosity one small question. Article 34 sets out the specific conditions for the conclusion of a working relationship within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first condition is the active management of two foreign languages, one of which is global. Now I wonder if the so-called Serbian or Croatian Serbian language is one of the foreign languages. If it belongs to foreign languages, does it mean that we are the only normal country in which there is sufficient knowledge of one foreign language in diplomacy?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you so much for asking. Would the representatives of the Government of Oziroma please, representatives of the government, who will respond? [[...]] Dr. Bekesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	I'd like to tell the honourable Member of the Wicked One. This is not legal, but it is a linguistic question. I'm a lawyer. But no doubt, if the language is not Slovenian, it is a foreign language. And even the Serbian and Croatian languages, irrespective of the philological discourses on their nature, relation, identity or in particular lexical differences, are undoubtedly one or two foreign languages that are lexically closer to and developmentally closer to the Slovenian language than any other, but are undoubtedly foreign languages that an average person, without a special study, cannot understand and use even less well. Same as for all other languages. At the same time, it is clear that it is not a language of the world. As world languages, we understand languages that are defined as official languages in the work of the United Nations or in more important international organisations for us. In NATO and the European Union these are English and French, while in the UN there are some other European and some other world languages, I think there are six or seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We vote on the proposed decision. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.5.2001. In the debate and decision-making I am putting Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of which the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia is the proposer. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 and, as stated in the review, under number 1 of the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. The amendment government supports the amendment. Under number two is the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose proposer is the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. The Government of the Amendment supports, as well as the mother's working body. Under number 3, the basic amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment to the amendment referred to in number 1. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment to amendment number one has been accepted. We move to vote on the amendment to amendment number two. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 60 votes for, no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment to amendment number 2 has been accepted. We are still voting on the basic amendment under number 3. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted under three and thus Article 2 has been completely amended. Article 3 shall be added to the debate and to the decision-making process. Under one amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose proposer is the Committee for Foreign Policy. The amendment government supports the amendment. Under the two basic amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother labour body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	This is again one of these principled and procedural things. Neither the President of the National Assembly nor the President of the Working Body are those who can keep any information to themselves. In this sense, the solution in marriage is not only problematic in this regard. When it comes to the relationship between the ministry or government and the national assembly or the working body, it is necessary to write it this way. My experience at the time I was chairman of the National Assembly was that I was getting some material from these secret services labeled "confidential". Since they were not suitable for distribution, I simply resolved the dilemma in an easy way to send them back. Because those who sent them claimed to be the president of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly could not use such materials for his own work. In this sense, I think this solution, I'll say, awkward, I won't say problematic, and it would suggest that I look at the third reading, if this is accepted, a more appropriate formulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It's an interesting thought. However, by this logic, we in this National Assembly should not have a committee to oversee intelligence services and its President should not accept confidential documents and reports and should not have closed meetings of his working body, as he deals with some strictly confidential documents that are not distributed to all Members. This way, of course, we don't come anywhere. My friend School is telling the truth. When I was in the government, he couldn't be handed over confidential documents. It was with such arguments that he refused to sign and download the documents, as he now said. But this is how we get into a situation where the legislative branch of power is, for some of the principal reasons, a denial of information, while also sharing responsibilities for certain key decisions that are before the state authorities. We're part of the country, too. Therefore, I think that this thought can be of principled nature, but its value of life is questionable. I can tell myself those who cooperate with me that all, including the confidential mail I receive, also distribute to those members of the committee who are punishing themselves with the matter described in such a document. But the president has to decide who else to send the matter to. Not the burden, but the knowledge. And to be informed, he must not be a burden to us. I therefore object to these concerns and propose that the amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich, and then Mr. Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	I must say that I missed this amendment and, of course, I was not paying attention to the basic text, but Mr Školč is absolutely right. It is absolutely necessary to distinguish between the President of the State, the Prime Minister or the Ministers and the President of the National Assembly. It is the President of the National Assembly who is informed on behalf of Members of certain matters. The first takes mail, and if it was in the past, as the School said, it would probably be right in some way, or he decided it was. In other words, I personally think that this is the only way that I believe that the President or the working body or the President of the National Assembly must inform all Members of all matters under the same regime in an appropriate manner, if these are strictly confidential documents. This is a national assembly, it is a matter of 90 Members, and there is nothing anyone else can do about it. Because that really means - I have to tell you that I got two letters after three months when someone, the secretary general and the president held them, I'm talking about this term in the drawer. It's a matter of some sort, you know, the leaders of the parliamentary groups. The matter was strictly confidential and dealt with certain matters. And they didn't know what to do with it. These are things that I believe should be done in this law in a way that, of course, the President is the recipient, the president of the working body, secondly, the recipient. How will he inform the members of the working body and all Members? Either through parliamentary groups which are a constitutional element of this assembly or otherwise. But in no way can something be laid down in the law on external matters that departs from the body as defined. The National Assembly is an organ, or autonomous branch, which has rules arranged elsewhere. And it cannot be written in the law on external matters to inform the President and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Why not the president or his working bodies here? I suppose that means that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, European Affairs, and the Association Committee, I don't know who else [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Slovenians all over the world. But I don't think that's enough. Because when it comes to the fact that the National Assembly is the one who formulates foreign policy on the basis of the law on external matters, then everyone must be informed accordingly. And I must say that I absolutely agree with the logic explained by Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jakič has the floor and then Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I think this can be resolved in the next phase with the amendment. In fact, when this amendment was presented, I thought that it was just a matter of handling classified materials, and I think that, of course, the regulation governing the treatment of classified materials already knows or already tells how it is and who is the one who can reproduce these materials. That is why, of course, I would like to join my colleague Anderlich in thinking that it should be everybody's information. Mr Anderlič extended them to the presidents of the working bodies covering the field of foreign policy, I would of course extend them to all members of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, given that we are more or less all of us involved in international activities through our working bodies, and therefore I see no reason to correct this in the further phase, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, informs the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of all important matters in the field of foreign policy. However, when it comes to dealing with confidential materials sent by the Ministry or the defence, of course, this is a matter that we know how to deal with in relation to a regulation governing confidential materials. That is why, of course, I do not think it would be any problem for the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to simply table an amendment, because I think that this is still possible in a rapid procedure and, of course, to change this amendment, which will be adopted. However, I think that, of course, Article 3 will be amended in this way and so on, meaning open to amendment until this legislative procedure is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Well, it's a very strange situation in its own way, because it's just us from this central part that we're talking to each other, because we could have made a deal somewhere else. But, my dear colleagues, I think there is a need to distinguish between the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-Presidents of the working bodies or Members. Why? If you take the Constitution into your hands, you read Article 106, replacing the President of the Republic. And he is talking about when there is a permanent reservation or even if the President is absent, he is talking about the President of the State being replaced by the President of the National Assembly in such a case. This means that he has to be more informed about some things than others, and eventually he gets into a new function. And I think when anything is being prepared in the direction of correction, then it's important to watch out for that distinction. For there is something with him that functions according to my own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Školč has the floor, then Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	106. In fact, the Article speaks of the situation where the President of the Republic is not present and when the President of the National Assembly temporarily plays this role. It is then said that he opens the mail received by the President of the Republic and this is referred to in Article 2 in the same law. Thus, it is not possible to conclude on this other mandate of the President of the National Assembly. Of course, I think it is embarrassing what we have done, that the President of the National Assembly is entirely, as far as these things are concerned, equal and the first among the same, but I see no more prudent solution, and even in the world it is usually so. Even if you look at it, they don't normally vote in Anglo-Saxon institutions. So let's just let it go. This is simply a matter that is resolved by informing the national assembly and the competent working body. However, there are different regimes when it comes to confidential data or information which is then distributed to all Members and Members. In this respect too, it is impossible to make comparisons with the supervisory bodies, and the law gives precise tasks, and where the competent working body usually requires some documentation, it looks at it and treats it accordingly. However, when this comes to the stage of the hearing in the National Assembly, which is hardly happening here, it is a big question whether it is possible to close access to all the information that has been provided by members of these supervisory or investigative bodies. Secondly, there is always a regime, closed, open sessions, confidential materials, business secrets and I don't know what else; this is regulated by other regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich and then Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	I'm going to make it very clear how I picture these things and how they really should be. It is undeniable that the President of the National Assembly is the one representing the National Assembly, which accepts on behalf of the National Postal Assembly and everything else and so on. But it's impossible that I get every day like that from every sphere, civil society, local, I don't know what else, a whole bunch of mail. However, there is some mail that is important for my work as a Member, and I am not talking about the Group leader now, so that he can be informed and stopped somewhere and only someone in this National Assembly is appointed to receive this post. For the National Assembly is responsible for, say, the formulation of foreign policy, monitoring and so on. And it is unacceptable to say that the President will be informed - if you say, the National Assembly is being informed, this means to me: the President receives, assigns to the relevant working bodies, if it is to deal with any document, if it is information, any, or any other document, as it distributes all other things, he must also distribute these things, of course under the appropriate regime. If the document has a strictly confidential mark, it shall be kept under strict confidentiality. For what is the question asked here? The question is probably trust and responsibility here. Therefore, all 90 Members are likely to be trustworthy and have the same responsibilities to develop this foreign policy. At the final stage when we are voting on a certain thing, one can happen to know more about matters that are just the President, and perhaps some president of the working body, and if these things are not adequately accessible to all Members, we can take something in a lack of information and, of course, in a different faith. That is why I propose, however, that the National Assembly be informed of all matters. The internal regime as to how this will be distributed shall apply to documents marked "classified" as well as to all of us to deal with these documents in such a way, and shall be the responsibility of everyone who accepts this document. It is simply written there in those codes you have, of course, that this will be distributed not only to one in the National Assembly or to the fifth, but will be distributed to 90 if they want it. I have also dealt in the same way many times as the School with those papers that I received, such as in the defence budget or whatever we receive under strictly confidential documents, that I have looked at them or not, and immediately returned them so that I would not be under the burden of forgetting somewhere on the table or any other and that I would issue any number or information. So this is a fundamental parliamentary situation, so whether we have 89 + 1 here or we have 85 + 5 or we have 90 Members who have basically the same right to be informed about all things. For in no case shall the president of the working body decide on matters, nor the president of the national assembly, but shall decide on this national assembly - something in the framework of the working bodies definitively and something in the plenary. It can't be any different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlič's execution wishes to replicate Mr. Kacin, then he has the word Replica you want, Mr. Bevk? [[...]] Mr Bevk has priority, he has previously applied, then Mr Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'd like to get involved in this issue. I think that my fellow Members, Mr Kacin and Mr Lavrinc, are perfectly right in this debate. The President of the National Assembly is on the country's closest leadership team, in addition to the President of the State and the Prime Minister. The President of the National Assembly is also invited to the meetings of the National Security Council and I think he should also be informed of such material. Also, in the event of the entry into force of Article 106 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the replacement of the President of the Republic, I believe that the President of the National Assembly must know this issue before and, of course, be familiar with the material labelled confidential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. You wanted to replicate, Mr. Kacin? I think I've got four lines now so I don't do anything wrong. Mr Jelko Kacin first, then Mr Anderlich, then Mr Jakič and then Mr Battelli. Here you go, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. My proposal is in the form of a replica to support this amendment proposed. This amendment extends the series of recipients of documents. This is exactly the intention of this amendment. If some colleagues are convinced that it needs to be extended, they can prepare an amendment at the next stage. But this persuasion is now unnecessary. This amendment, as it is written, extends the circle of recipients. If it still needs to be extended, please make such an amendment. That's how it's handled procedurally. It is unnecessary now to convince each other of these things and to decide on, confirm or reject such an amendment. I therefore propose that we speed up our definition and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	Mr Bevk must have misunderstood my intervention. I don't mind the president being informed. It is absolutely right that he is informed of those matters concerning this country and the National Assembly at all. At the very moment when they relate, let's say national security and the possible responsibility of the National Assembly. However, I am also, of course, for all Members to be informed in the same way as the regime does. For no decision shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly in the capacity of the President of the National Assembly, except when he enters office as Vice-President of the State, but that shall be in another position at that time. But when it comes to the National Assembly, it's the National Assembly that decides things. Therefore, the Members must be informed. I think it's perfectly clear. No more powers may be conferred on the President of the National Assembly in this respect. Like, two more, three presidents of the work force. This is disputed by parliamentary democracy and by the fact that 90 Members are equally responsible under this Constitution for those things that are within the competence of the National Assembly. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I don't know why there would be any hot blood on that spot. It's the right thing to do. I, once again, say Article 3, if you go to look at the text of the articles, Article 3 speaks of cooperation with the National Assembly. It is a subtitle, this law and this article, "Cooperation with the National Assembly". If we have said that it is in accordance with the Constitution that the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia is determined by the National Assembly, then all the right of those who decide and determine foreign policy is to be informed of this foreign policy. What I have said in my discussion, when I have criticized the draft draft bill, I have talked about exclusiveism, then I must say that, of course, in this article, such as the amendment, it appears that the President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Labour Council will be informed about the foreign policy, all of us, but we will be able to hear about the foreign policy when the Minister answers questions and initiatives on Tuesdays this afternoon or, as the second paragraph says, "on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government may propose to the State Assembly to define a specific foreign policy issue". And given that I was just speaking against exclusiveism in the previous stages, I think it would be appropriate to consider with some kind of calm blood, of course, what Max told us was a specific. But on the other hand, if we are talking about cooperation with the National Assembly, then this cooperation should take place among all those sitting in this National Assembly and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, of course, I excluded that part of the cooperation that is regulated by other acts that say how "trade" with materials of a confidential nature, and here, of course, colleague Bevk is quite right when he speaks of mail, as regards national security, where the President of the National Assembly is a member and so on. I say, of course, that this is the only article or one of those articles, which speaks explicitly about the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the National Assembly. In this cooperation we should write a broader, say, crowds of those who should be or should be well aware of external matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Battelli, then Mr. Companion and then Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't think it's wise and it's not serious that we all get everything because it doesn't work, and for a lot of reasons that I'm not going to point out here right now, and I think everyone makes sense. But it's probably something else. However, when a matter is decided in the national assembly, then all Members must have all information equal, equal and all relevant information on the matter to be decided. They're all from us. And this is, of course, also the responsibility of the leadership, including the leadership and the working bodies and the national assembly as such, to ensure this when it comes to decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First, I would agree with what my colleague Battelli said in full. In short, I would like to refer to the colleagues who have raised the issue of the status of President of the National Assembly. This latent issue is present, especially in this mandate: in the case of some matters, the rules of procedure. This question is present. But I propose, of course, that our decision is such that it will be good and not burdened with any concrete resentment or whatever. So "ad rem" is absolutely not "ad personality". There is no Anglo-Sangson model in Slovenia. We don't have a speaker, we have a president. In any case, the Presidents of the National Assembly are sometimes invited to attend a meeting of the National Security Council. They're inviting him. And it's only right to be invited. And the responsibility is to go and keep him informed. Information is primarily a responsibility. I had practice when I received material from a confidential nature to open it up, to deal with the nature of confidentiality as conscientiously as possible, and then I tried to make a very responsible decision about the material and immediately returned it to where it came from. You know, I almost feel like we're making things a little complicated. To me, the solutions that are here are good. It is important of us and of people who perform functions to perform them properly and responsibly. I would even support the basic dictatorship, but if it is like this, I would specifically like to say that it opens the way for the ministry and the minister to be able to ask other working bodies, not just the National Assembly. It's an amendment to the amendment. Is that right? This is a key change. In the amendment of the government, only one word is replaced. The government's amendment is not substantive, it's purely so, only foreign policy is being replaced. [[...]] A key substantive change is only in the amendment to the government's amendment. I suggest we're not petty and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please! Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich and then Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u138	I see, of course, that it is precisely from these specific interpretations that Mr Podobnik has now interpreted and from his experience, that this, in my opinion, stems from a misinterpretation. And Mr. Robert Battelli. If we all understand that 90 Members are a collective body and have nothing to do with the President of the State, who is an individual body, and not with the Prime Minister and Minister, etc. Of course, it would be right, in my firm belief, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within its competences, is informing the national assembly. Because we have the arrangement and internal arrangements that the President of the National Assembly is the one who represents, the one who accepts, and in short: this is all addressed to the President of the National Assembly. Because he's the one who represents. They don't bring when the National Assembly says - we have, for example, the Founder is the National Assembly, but we know how it works, various things, etc. When we have the internal regime with the Rules of Procedure resolved - first, of course, before this with the Constitution - the position of the President of the National Assembly, he will be the one who will inform or say: we have received these and this information, this and this information, you can have them under the supervision of the Committee on Internal Policy or anywhere. Even so, Mr Podobnik, it would be good if a matter from the National Security Council could be told by the President of the National Assembly to the President of the Defence Committee and by the members of the Defence Committee to the members of the Committee for something else, if nothing else. Surely this would be an important issue in terms of parliamentary democracy. That's exactly what I'm talking about, Mr Battelli, is that we have to deal with: institutions and institutions. Look. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has cooperation with the National Assembly in its title. So if - why does it not then be written by the President of the State, or the Prime Minister, or the Foreign Minister informs the President of the National Assembly? That's the way it's supposed to be written. But since the Ministry informs, the Ministry cooperates with another body - writes in the title of Article 3 - and then informs the National Assembly. But how does he do it inside, the National Assembly, how he's informed - from the President forward! I am certainly not caught up in any current or other matters, but I am simply explaining that if a national assembly is the one with specific powers in the field of foreign policy, the National Assembly shall be informed and the President of the National Assembly shall treat the material as he thinks it is necessary and as the Rules of Procedure governing the internal relationship in the National Assembly and shall follow the rules of procedure. Of course, it's something that I think is poorly written.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u140	In a way, I apologize to Scholjcz, who has just left this room, because I will quote something that he so, by the way, whispered to me when he was explaining his views to me; this in some way seemed to me in all the great debate that might even go beyond this dictatorship is important to me. Let's just say that there would have been an intervention to the Foreign Minister and we would have told him that there were some important things he had not informed the National Assembly, and that his answer would have been, "I have notified the President." Or to ask the initiative and the question of explaining something to us, I would say, "I have sent a message to the president of the working body." This could, I think, have brought us this diction, as it was written. It seems normal to me that we do not all receive the same mail, the same weight, but I firmly believe that this dictatorship, which says that the foreign ministry is informing about important matters in the field of foreign policy, would already seem right to say that the national assembly is informing us of important foreign policy issues, because this is simply the case for all of us. And, as we say, it could happen to us that some important information would not come to us, but it could also be an alibi, "we have informed the President, but it is on his side that he was reacting then or not". That's the only way I can think of it is if it stays exactly as it was written.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri, then Mr Podobnik and Mr Auschwitz have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. I will not get into trouble about the content of the topic that we are currently dealing with, but I would like to point out that our debate seems a little bit unrealistic. We had a whole series of coordination stages within the coalition, within a number of meetings of the Foreign Policy Committee; no one was aware of this issue. And I also see today that the drafter of the bill on the dilemmas that are now opening up with regard to the role of the President of the National Assembly, regarding the delivery of mail and so on, do not have an adequate answer, because this has not been a problem in the discussions so far around this law. Finally, I have not yet seen from these discussions any concrete proposal on how to draw up a Article. This amendment could have been drafted in previous stages - I think my colleagues agree with me. I don't know if we're going to solve the entire dilemma with such a solution. And I regret that we have stopped on a matter which, within the context of the whole law, actually relies on some basic mistrust. And that's bad. I think that, as far as previous coalition coordination would have taken place, an agreement with the government and, of course, within the framework of the business process would have been reached on the issue of dictatorship. I regret this that we are now involved in this article, when we could have resolved all the dilemmas substantially earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I would have corrected myself first when I said let's not be petty. Clearly, this is a minor matter, given this great interest, and it is a shame that we have not discussed this topic in a little more depth in the previous stages. If the solution is the way I feel it will be written here, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall, within its powers, inform the National Assembly - what will it be? The National Assembly, represented by the President of the National Assembly, will give the notice to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and so on - we will in some way do the same. But if we choose to do so, so be it. But I think the concept will be broken. And so on a quick decision to make in five minutes, I don't know if that's thoughtful. But I must give an explanation to my colleague Anderlich. Let's say that the President of the National Assembly is invited to the National Security Council and there is a topic related to the role of the National Assembly and Members, next time there is an immediate discussion with the competent president of the working body, the convening of a college or a working conversation and a decision in the National Assembly. It's just this way, there's no other way. And that's how it's always been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Auschwitz and then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Indeed, it is a waste of time that we have so long needed for something that we could also resolve in the third reading, even though the issue is topical and very interesting. I think it will be difficult to define myself as an amendment that will open up the possibility and accessibility of the widest circle, because we do not know how to deal with this information and information. And this is a bigger problem that we should deal with in Parliament before, say, we accept such changes and before we demand that we have access to confidential data. This has happened to us several times in the National Assembly, and last but not least today's controversy between Mr Zammernik and Mr Kacin may have drawn attention to how we respect and protect classified information. The debate on how to vote on the Ambassador or Ambassador to the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy was held at a public meeting on the material received by members of the Committee as confidential material, which, by the way, came from Parliament into the media and took place in an open-ended debate. So it's not just a matter of who's informed! The problem is whether we will know this degree of confidentiality of data then also keep it for our own use or for information and our conduct. I am not sure that we have all our instruments in Parliament so designed that confidentiality can also be maintained. So far, we've proven that we're not capable of it. If we support such an amendment, it will be imperative that we take immediate action to deal with, protect, and feed confidential materials differently. So, very strange - also Mr. Podobnik seemed to me that he was surprised when we met with our Slovenians in the Rezija and when some of the members of the foreign policy committee were those ladies asking about what was happening and how it happened on the foreign policy committee that the ambassador did not refuse support. For the first time, we were not prepared for such a question, and even then we wondered how it was possible for journalists to ask that question. Because by all the rules, we shouldn't even know this happened. Here I draw attention to this problem, whatever we will do and how we will regulate this area in this law, and for other areas, this should also be followed by the measures taken by the National Assembly on the protection of confidential data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. First Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Peterle. These are all replicas, so let's go in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u148	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. "De lana caprina rixari", for goat hair to argue. Whatever I've heard here now, it proves that some of my colleagues - and I don't want to be offensive - have not gone into what legislation in the National Assembly allows them to read documents, as my colleague Ašič said, strictly confidential, confidential or state secret or official secret. The National Assembly at this point, I'm saying it can't work. And the president of the National Assembly is going to have a lot of trouble if he wants to take these things along the official route. For now it defines the handling of such materials, the rules on the handling of classified materials signed by the President of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, Vinko Havner, in 1982, and, of course, the amendments and additions to the rules on the handling of classified materials signed by the President of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, President Miran Potrč. There's no other way. If I show you - the content of how to deal with these things, to whom it is accessible and what, this is completely useless for today's day. This is where we argue for free. I call on Mr Max Lavrinz, who will lead the committee, once and for all with these documents, classified and confidentiality, to make it possible for us to have a legal basis - of course his committee, not him personally. Regarding what we are now arguing here, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is extremely well-ordered. These have a 1997 Ministry of Foreign Affairs regulation on the identification, classification and protection of confidential data. It specifies exactly what they must do, how and how to do it, how it gets hot and all that stuff. That's why I think it's too much of a debate. I would not specify these things here until this thing is so appropriate, and I will agree with my colleagues Anderlich and Scholcz that this is a national assembly. These services here should then comply with such rules as: [[...]] [[?]] And we're on barefoot. [[...]] For this reason, I would ask you if you have ever thought, Members, how much confidential material is in our vaults and what information we, who represent all people, should know and perform in public an appropriate degree of confidentiality in order to be able to act. And I'm asking you, have any of you ever tried to get a look at this classified material? I tried it myself sometimes, but I tell you, this is a bloody cross road, and it seems to me that as a Member I have even worse problems if I want to get to these materials than some citizen who wants to get to a certain document that they have on the police or that they have in some other appropriate security service. That's why I don't think we're going to be here today. Forgive the expression! - tails ripped out with these things. The warning given by my colleague Školč was very good, and he would leave in principle this national assembly and the integrity of Members to this extent - but protection that we are all obliged to trust us with certain things. However, those to whom this Act provides that either state secret, official secret, with an appropriate degree of confidentiality, are aware of how to act and who to send them. It is not possible, however, that, automatically through this law, all these documents would be justified, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Working Body or certain working bodies. Therefore, it seems to me that the path Kacin said that we would try to transform this amendment in the direction, as colleague Anderlič said, is correct, and it seems to me that if we don't do it now, we have to break it, that then we have to adopt some amendment in this direction and then in the third reading of this issue to remedy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I think we're moving away from the darkness. The basic Article 3 of the Law, which is amended by these two amendments, does not refer to confidential material, the confidential material is covered by specific rules which are clear. So please don't mix things with each other. Mr Peterle, then Mr Lavrinc, if I am not mistaken, then Mr Minister would like to respond to the dilemmas that appear here. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You've already taken some of my replicas. Now, the coalition or part of the coalition presents us with a scientific symposium on postal services within the National Assembly. This is totally unnecessary, the debate on this has been enough. Of course, the Committee has the competence it has used, and it has confirmed some amendment, which is confirmed by the plenary or not, and I do not think it is the task of the law on external matters to regulate the postal system in the National Assembly, if I do a little caricing; this is a matter of rules of procedure or anything else. It is important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs send it to the National Assembly, which it believes must be sent, whether by law it is necessary to send it. I therefore propose that we move on to a decision, whether the coalition should take a break and consider these matters and should not fully employ the issues that have been overcome for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u152	I would only say that to those who are [[...]] [[Restless.]] If Tone tells this joke, then I'll keep going. [[...]] Those who have missed the 17th point of today’s or current agenda have also probably overlooked the fact that we have a proposal for a law on classified information that will determine certain things there. But precisely because of this and to get a little attached to some of the other colleagues, it is envisaged that Members, which is all on average, will not be checked to say so in the old terminology. In short, we won't have to go through some procedure, swear and so on. That's why I think it's better to make decisions like this a little bit slower and be careful not to get stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are, of course, a little surprised at this debate, which has now opened in connection with Article 3. However, I must say in advance that, of course, the Ministry would not object to an amendment that would - I would say - more generally generalise the addressee of the communication between the Ministry and the National Assembly, although, of course, we think that this is also in some way a problem of circulating information within the National Assembly. But if the amendment proposed by the amendment were to be put in place, the National Assembly, not the President, would be informed. So I'd like to save someone a more intense debate. That's not necessary. We do not think that this is a major problem, although it may be a technical problem, but it is not a substantive problem. I agree with those who have talked about the fact that, finally, the President of the National Assembly is one of the Members, who only has certain duties, but he is not another category of Member or an official in this sense, as the individual bodies are listed in the debate and so on. So I would like to save the Members and Members of the Union any aggravation, if that is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u156	I would like to table an amendment of this kind, as has now been explained. This means that in the amendment of the Government to Article 3, the text of "President of the National Assembly and President of the competent working body of the National Assembly" is replaced by the text "State Assembly". And by what happens to text or material, it will regulate the rules of procedure and internal communication. But the point is, the relationship is the Ministry of State. The National Assembly shall be informed of matters, how, to which working bodies, or to all Members, or only a notification, and shall be regulated by the regulations of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, do you have an amendment in writing? Then please, if you can split it. It is possible to table amendments orally in a rapid procedure, but it is the Member's duty to submit them in writing to the President and if the Members agree that when I read them, we can also wait for them to get to the bench. Mr Anderlič, there is no need to collect signatures, enough is an amendment signed by a Member of Parliament Dear Members, if you agree, we have two amendments to Article 3, which have been discussed, and an amendment by a group of Members with a first-signed Tonet Anderlic, which reads as follows: The amendment of the Government to Article 3 replaces the words "President of the National Assembly and President of the competent working body of the National Assembly" with the words "State Assembly". With an explanation. "Messengers have the right to be informed of the functioning of the government and the ministries, in accordance with their powers conferred on them by the law and the rules of procedure." We would first vote on this amendment. If it's accepted, there's an amendment that is - just to make it clear to the end, then I'll give it a chance. [[...]] If the amendment I have read is now adopted, the amendment, which is listed in order number 1 in the review, is the amendment of the Foreign Policy Committee, becomes irrelevant and under 2 we have the basic amendment of the government. The amendment that has been tabled now has not yet been debated, so I am opening the debate. Mr. Companion, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u158	Yes, thank you. I do not wish to prolong the debate, but I will not support this amendment. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we know what the rules of procedure are when this report or this information comes, and the President of the National Assembly will grant maternity in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and give this notice to either the Committee on Foreign Policy or European Affairs and so on. I think it's a worse solution than what it is now. I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would only ask if we could define once again more precisely, because the opposition was not involved in this story, and it seems that this is a matter of a coalition that does not trust Mr Pahor, and I would ask if you could define these amendments more precisely. What changes with this amendment - should we?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Thanks for the heads-up. You have the right to receive a written request, so I interrupt the session in five minutes to copy the amendment to get it on the bench. Thank you very much. Let's go on with five. We can talk about it like that. [[...]] That's it. We can discuss this until you get written on the bench of this amendment. Mr. Juri, Mr. Potch, has also been reported. We'll discuss it further, in this time you get an amendment to the bench. Here you go, Mr. Yuri, then Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u162	Vice-President, I would just like to correct you in stating that, as long as this amendment is accepted, the amendment under number one is irrelevant - it does not. This amendment, now tabled by Anderlich, refers to the Government's first sentence of the amendment, while the amendment under number one refers to the second sentence. So all three are subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I understand that foreign policy for the National Assembly is an important activity. In addition, I believe we have many other powers to decide on. I think that we should have the information criteria, the decision criteria, the criteria for receiving the material and so on, whether it is from this or another source, from this or another government body, roughly the same. At least that's my belief. Well, I'm sure it's going to be a matter of whether it's classified or not, but at this point, it's not, in my opinion, the most important thing, because we're going to have to deal with it in a very special way. The proposal, which is a day, at least in my understanding, implies that we want to have a different relationship with materials that deal with external matters than with materials that deal with labour relations, social policy, education and the like. In short, for those who are all important for decision-making in the National Assembly and on which all Members and Members wish to have equal opportunities for cooperation in view of the importance of decision-making. As far as I understand the proposal, this assumes that, because I know the rules of procedure that we have now and the rules we are proposing, because I am one of the signatories, and I claim that in this Rules of Procedure provisions which would regulate what the President is doing with the material he receives do not need a special or supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which would regulate it, or a special act which would regulate how such or other materials will be dealt with. We don't have that, and I suppose we'd need that in this case. Otherwise, I must say that for me, any normal organization of work, including the National Assembly, also assumes a certain division of labour. And a certain division of work means that we decide on certain things in plenary, and then we must all be equally informed and all the materials that we will decide on must be equally accessible to all. We are discussing some things in the preparatory sense at the meetings of the home work bodies. And that's when we're all informed as members of the parent's working body. I would like to ask you whether any of us 90 Members are equally informed and have all the materials available, all the working bodies in the preparatory phase? I have to say that I'm afraid not, at least I wouldn't dare say it for myself, but I'm the leader of the parliamentary group, and here and there, I'll get some extra material or at least a day before that. In addition, we have some working bodies with special powers. To date, this will no longer be the case, or in part, the Foreign Policy Committee has also decided on an agreement on the starting points for negotiations. We have never received all Members of Parliament from these starting points. Never. I never got them. Is that right or wrong - let's think! But then we should all win in the future. This was the responsibility of the mother's working body. It wasn't the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Supervisory committees, or investigative commissions, have received special materials that we have not all received. Maybe that's right, maybe that's wrong. Only if we now make this decision do I not know why something else would apply in international relations. And, I must say, I feel the same way as colleague Podobnik, until the decision on this, with all the consequences that I assume, new regulations, different arrangements or special provisions for foreign affairs of all others, I would not have taken it in this way and it does not seem wise or wise. We'll have some work to do. I, too, was not informed who was proposed to be an ambassador. I wasn't. It could be. Why? Because I'm sure my working-body members would say that to me in a four-eyed manner, as I would say, normally in terms of protecting confidentiality. In short, relations between the groups of Members and Members also allow for something. But to demand that those who don't make decisions get all the materials in the phase where only someone has the authority, I don't think that would be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u166	Mr Potts, I would, however, believe that we would be right in stating this. This is the only law that has thus determined the division of labour in the National Assembly. The only one. All other social laws, I don't know what they're talking about, are talking about the National Assembly. The Government Act, the Government Act, Mr. Peterle, is talking about the National Assembly, informing the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Of course he's talking! [[...]] About informing the National Assembly. At least in this session, which happened on Tuesday, I could check in on how long someone's been sitting in here, but it's not - as far as the hours go. And I'm not going to discuss it. But still. This is the only law that stipulates that the Government Act does not provide for any other area of which the National Assembly decides and takes decisions is not prescribed anywhere, including the federal government Act, that the President of the National Assembly is informed of this and that the President of the Working Body is informed of this and that the rest are of something else that this law prescribes. This is not the case in this regulation in this country. When you show me only one law, where it is and it's just the opposite of what you said, so, in all other laws, there is a government relationship - the National Assembly. Ministry - National Assembly. Or whoever it is. Because the National Assembly is an institution. Once again, it consists of 90 Members and has a President. And it is the President who is addressed to him, but not to the President as the President of the National Assembly, but to the President because the President is, at that moment, by chance, President. So this is a matter that is governed by the rules of procedure and not by law. Go look at the government bill and you'll see it says the government is informing the national assembly. There's no record of the government informing the president of the National Assembly. No! No! But the president of the National Assembly gets this message from the government. And then by internal organization, because this is a different matter, like, say, the minister and the ministry. There are secretaries, undersecretaries, and I don't know how many people. He then distributes the material to them as he sees fit. The National Assembly is a different institution. Even a different institution than the government, so I think it's consistent. Also higher-and-higher other laws to say: The government informs the National Assembly, the Minister informs the National Council, and the National Assembly will act within, depending on internal organisation, as the National Assembly itself will decide. I even know and I understand why it was and it was that some things turned on my head. But it's just an integral part of it. I don't think there's any need for anyone to really think there's anything concrete about wanting to turn things around. It is a purely relationship between the relations of the National Assembly and this institution with other institutions. I mean it and, of course, if the amendment is adopted, it will be accepted; if not, it will be as it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli has a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. This morning, of course, it was impossible to expect such a broad debate to take place at this point in this law. It was suggested that we start the library law tomorrow. I suggested it myself. I think, given the evolution of the situation, that this would not be appropriate and that it would be better if we continued on this agenda tomorrow. Therefore, I propose that tomorrow at 10 a.m. it proceed with this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-24-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u169	The National Assembly has already adopted today the conclusion that tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will begin the meeting by discussing the 12th item of the agenda, on your proposal, Mr Battelli. You have tabled a procedural proposal for tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue with today's interrupted 10th point - this is the 10th point that we are now considering. I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 4. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against four.]] I'm guessing it's a procedural decision to continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the end of the 10th item of the agenda. Then we will continue to address the 12th item of the agenda and then proceed in order. Representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members, thank you very much and good night.
