ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u1	With a slight delay, we are starting today's meeting of the National Assembly, the continuation of the meeting. The delay was also due to the fact that the working bodies were almost in session by 2 p.m., so this is somehow justified. So, I'm about to proceed with the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Peter Levič, Ivan Kebrič from 16.00 p.m. onwards, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Zmago Jelinčič, Stanislav Brenčič for the beginning of the meeting, Bogdan Barovič from 16.00 p.m. onwards, Villa Trofenik, Jožef Školč for the beginning of the session Franc Kangler from 17.00 p.m. onwards, Tone Anderlič for the beginning of the session. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Insert the cards and press the quorum. Please! There are 50 Members and Members present. I find that the assembly is adjourned and can make a decision. Today's follow-up to the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 5th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the closure of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society; then the assembly will move on to the 12th item - a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of the first paragraph 300 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; then on the 13th item - elections and appointments and we will proceed with the adoption of the Customs Act; and on the following, we will discuss the remaining items, namely 6, 9 and 10th, as soon as we receive the reports of the home work bodies. We don't have these reports right now. On a case-by-case basis, Mr Lavrinc would like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Today, the Committee has considered the Asylum Act and also the Succession Act. The report is in its final stage, I am talking about the asylum law, and it was somehow agreed that this law, if possible, would be discussed today. Therefore, of course, I appeal that I set these points, which are now, I do not know, by number, which are to be classified, that is, this law on asylum, before the other substantive points.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Mr. Lavrinc, as long as he's in my power, it'll all be over today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u4	From your mouth to God's ears.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Lavrinz. I'm moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the conclusion of ownership and the privatisation of legal persons in the property of the Slovenian Development Society. By letter dated 24 July 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which you received on the bench, proposed to the assembly that we consider the proposal for a law in the future, which is the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. So the Government's proposal is that we consider this point at the next meeting. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I don't think he's a parent worker. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal for this Decision, which is open to representatives of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is not possible at this point. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] So can we decide on this proposal for a decision? It is said that we are considering item 5 at a future meeting of the National Assembly. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've reached this conclusion. And I'm moving on to 12. On the basis of the first paragraph of paragraph 300, that is, on the contrary, a proposal for a public meeting. Member of the Parliamentary. The proposed decision was submitted to the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons for consideration. I ask the rapporteur to present an opinion on the initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 186 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and colleagues! During the year of implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a number of citizens and citizens have identified, in their view, inconsistencies and have also been referred to the Constitutional Court for constitutional review of certain articles and also parts of a certain article. Well, among the many initiatives for constitutional review, the labour force, the Labour Committee, the family, social policy and persons with disabilities at their 8th regular session, also addressed the initiative for constitutional review of Article 186 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The opinion of the Government, as well as the opinion of the secretariat, showed that the initiative, as set out, was justified and that a debate between the members and members of the Committee was also appropriate. It is therefore appropriate, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 300 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the national assembly initiates a procedure to amend this Article. We therefore propose the following decision for discussion and adoption by the National Assembly: "The procedure for amending and supplementing Article 186 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance shall be opened. [[Official Journal No 106/99]] . The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance and to submit it to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption no later than 31.12. By that date, the Government should implement the additional decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the 3rd extraordinary meeting on 20.12.2000." In accordance with this Decision, the Secretariat will also prepare an answer to the Constitutional Court. In addition, I would like to add that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has also prepared an analysis of the implementation of the law after its one-year period of application and has also identified a number of well-founded arguments suggesting that a change of law can be drawn up as soon as possible. In this context, this decision of the National Assembly will also reinforce this need, so I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written applications for the debate; the debate of the other Members to apply will be limited to five minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the decision that Mr Brenčič had just read, which is the conclusion of the parent working body you have in the material. I propose that we move to a vote on this decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 52 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes agenda item 12. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider a proposal from the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, namely a motion for a decree on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers to purchase and sell electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage to the system of Slovenian electricity. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He probably doesn't want to because he's not here.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? No written debates were reported, so that any current application to the debate would be limited to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the draft decision on the composition of the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 57 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 10th A-point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law. With regard to this law, I can find that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law on the conversion of free customs shops at road border crossings with Member States of the European Community operating within the European Union into border stores and on specific control measures for these shops has not yet been completed because it has not yet been published in the Official Journal. Therefore, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the customs law governing similar content in accordance with Article 174 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may not be subject to consideration at a meeting of the national assembly. I therefore propose to the assembly that, on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft amendments and the addition of the customs law be considered at the September meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed decision, by procedure only the representatives of the groups of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] None of the parliamentary groups would like to discuss this, so I am concluding the debate and moving on to a vote on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 50 Members and Members voted in favour of the proposed decision. No one was against it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We've got points 6, 9 and 10. 6. Agenda item - Proposal for a law amending the law on the use of funds derived from the purchase title on the basis of the law on the property transformation of undertakings, reduced procedure. The report is in reproduction. Government representatives are here. Then points 9 and 10 are the same. It's not ready for reproduction yet? Where's Mr. Lavrinc? I'm guessing we don't have the materials to continue the session, so I'm taking a 20-minute break, which is fifteen to three. I hope that material will be available during this time and that we will be able to continue the meeting. So we continue at fifteen to three, 14.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u8	If you don't mind, we'd like to continue the session. Let's first figure out the presence. Please, if you can press the quorum. I find there are 60 Members and Members present. We're final. We can make a decision. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT LAW ON THE APPLICATION OF FUNDS RECEIVED FROM BUILDINGS BASED ON THE LEGISLATION OF ENTITIES, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're moving to first reading. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word? Please, Secretary of State Strmnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Dear Members! With the amendments and amendments to the law before you, we have substantially improved the text of the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchase, particularly in the part where this law defines the conditions of access for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to Hungarian and Italian nationality, to whom certain development incentives are granted under this law and the following acts. With the original proposal of the government and with the additions created during the debate in the National Assembly, we were able to integrate the incentives provided under this law into the whole system of promoting coherent regional development. On the other hand, we have managed to preserve the rights of both nationalities to participate in decision-making on these funds. In short, the result before you is a happy compromise that saves a lot of lives. However, given that it is a compromise, it does not, of course, resolve all questions relating to nationality. There are open questions that require and are likely to require further in-depth debate in the National Assembly. What are the practical consequences that will be known immediately after the adoption of this law? What are the consequences that require the procedure? The public fund for regional development will be transposed within 15 days of the adoption of this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u10	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u11	A few more than 2 billion Slovenian Tolar claims on loans made in the past since 1996 to promote the economic base of indigenous national communities. [[...]] It will also be possible to allocate the repayments of these loans to new loans. The present law did not allow this to happen. This means that we have received a fund somewhere between 200 million and 300 million Slovenian tolars a year, with which national communities will be able to co-operate to some extent. These are funds that will go into regional development, as the law on promoting coherent regional development and on the basis of it the underlying sub-legislative acts clearly stipulate that national programmes are included in regional development programmes, and these funds are part of the resources that go to regional development in Slovenia. Furthermore, once all claims are transferred to the public fund, it will be possible to resolve some of the problems of the past, some of them, I will now say, bad claims. We do not deny the existence of bad claims that have accumulated in the management of these assets so far. However, our review of the bad claims shows that it is not enough to devote ourselves to this problem now in the assembly itself. Bad claims occur mainly with farmers; where farmers took loans, we have problems there. It cuts smaller amounts and it's a significant number of these people who are in trouble because of it. We believe that this problem will be resolved quickly, in line with the procedures already in place, which are already in place in the public fund for regional development already developed for these purposes, and the transfer of funds to the public fund could systematically address these problems. Furthermore, this law introduces an additional billion 200 million claims from the anuity or credits collected by the Ministry of State in 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994, and I believe that it has also provided for planning, economic relations and development to promote the development of demographically endangered areas. Thus, there are certain claims from the past that are still on the account of the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance. Also from this title, we expect or estimate an annual inflow of about 100, 200 million funds back, which also go directly with this law to promote regional development. This part has no direct relationship with minorities or with these minority funds purchases. On the basis of the law, a government regulation will be adopted which will specify all the details that are still missing in the law. And this regulation will define where Members may still have questions about how this matter will actually be implemented, what will be the control, how these matters will take place, what procedures are going to be. This will be regulated by a government regulation. The government regulation always goes through the State Aid Control Commission. It is said that any government regulation, which is any basis for the allocation of funds, goes through the State Aid Control Commission. These are mechanisms that are a sufficiently large guarantee for legislators not to be used in a transparent manner in order not to be used in contravention of the applicable system for promoting coherent regional development and the State Aid Control Act. No invitation to tender [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Excuse me. Actually, I apologize. But I don't have that power, you know, to influence MPs and MPs to lower the volume of their speech a little bit, if they don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm actually at the place because I don't want to burden the esteemed choir. I would also like to say that the government has acted within certain time limits, that there may have been some errors in the procedure, in particular in the sense of the formal consent of the institutions of the minority, but I can tell you that we have done everything that we may have previously missed in these days when the law was still under consideration in the National Assembly. Thus, we have been treated by the institutions of the minority. We had a hearing on the Nationals Commission. The Commission made a positive statement on these matters. Both Members of the Nationality have made a positive statement about the solutions that are before you today, so that there may not be so much confusion in the heads of Members anymore. Some of these debates have stressed that there is a lot of confusion about these solutions. I think we've managed to remove it and you can press the adoption button for the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur if he can present the Committee's position. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Although the proposal for a law is short, since, except for Article 5, Article 5 has 4 substantive articles in force, the Committee on the Economy has dealt with the proposal quite a bit. He discussed it at three meetings or at two extraordinary sessions and later today. In this consideration, he took into account the opinion of the secretariat, as well as the report or opinion of the Commission for the National Communities, which considered the draft law at yesterday's meeting as an interested working body. The Commission, as you can see from the report, supported and supported the proposed amendment by the national group. On the basis of all this and on the basis of a thorough debate, the Committee has prepared, in cooperation with the Government and the secretariat, the amendments you have in the report and in the review of the amendments, and I propose that you accept them, together with the amendment of the national group. This amendment has also been supported by the Committee. The content has already been discussed by the Secretary of State, so I would not repeat it. Finally, a number of issues have been raised at the time of the consideration of the law, which point out that this law does not fully address the issue of promoting the economic foundation of national communities, and the Committee has also supported the proposal for a decision proposed by the National Assembly of the Commission on Nationality, namely that the Government should prepare a proposal for a comprehensive resolution of the system of promoting the economic basis of the national community. The Committee also adopted an additional decision, in view of the debate on the shortcomings or non-modernity of the purchasing law, in view of the fact that this law originates in 1995, to propose to the assembly that it propose to the Government that the Government prepare a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the use of the funds derived from purchases under the Property Change Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't have any applications. Oh, now. Okay, Mr. Kavčič, LDS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you. Your Honor! With regard to the proposal for a law amending, however, there were quite different views and ambitions, so Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy have sought to achieve - and we believe that we have achieved - the separation of those parts of the proposal that deal mainly with or only with technical issues, while we have endeavoured to defer the consideration of substantive issues relating to relations with national minorities, in time and in law, which could be more comprehensively dealt with. We therefore support the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Economy today. We expect to give a little more attention in the future to the quite large dilemmas that have nevertheless emerged in the debates on this law. It has shown quite interesting substantive differences in terms of what the interesting category should actually mean, embedded in the basic text of the law, which speaks of the creation of the economic basis of the ethnic minority. Let us be honest, the views on this category are not universally uniform in different groups of Members. I therefore believe that, at this stage, we have reached a sufficiently high level of agreement on the fundamental arrangements that this law amending the law brings. However, we have also agreed that certain substantive bases of the State of Slovenia's relationship to national minorities will need to be addressed as soon as possible. That is why we will support MEPs and members of liberal democracy with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We've been waiting a long time for the change of the purchase law. Since 1997, we have been working with Italian colleagues on many of the coordination within Meor, but we have not found a solution. The system of promoting support for the development of indigenous national communities is extremely unfavourable because it does not help their economic stability, but destroys those who were so naive that they applied for loans years ago under the conditions laid down by the law. For example, whoever then took 1 million SIT loans for a period of 7 years must pay back almost 3 million 500. I'm asking, who is this help? Countries, banks? Certainly not nationality, because it's a killer interest. This is no help for me. The proposed amendments to this law go in the direction of remedying the situation described above. The amendment of the law changes only a few articles and it's just a technical law, which is how I experience it. However, together with the amendments adopted and in particular with the additional decision reached by the national community, they would help to move forward. It is not true that this law saves only the alarming situation among members of the Hungarian nationality caused by these loans. It also allows the normal drawdown of these loans, which has not been possible in the last two years. So I consider the adoption of this law a step further, but certainly not a definitive solution. I hope that in this national assembly, within the meaning of our additional decision, we will soon have a very fruitful debate on this issue, and I recommend the adoption of the law and amendments, which are also supported by the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank you. Mag. A petty man on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u21	I welcome the colleagues and colleagues, as well as the representatives of the government and the other guests. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the initiative to change the law or this intention of the government. The reasons are clear, inadequate funding or promotion of indigenous communities. So it turns out that the purchases were not best charged. The question now is how is it that these funds are returned, and more importantly, this is the issue, or the problem, that these funds have not benefited minority communities. And we're about the same question we might have had six years ago, I don't know. The only difference is that there are claims, and it's ironic that we don't even know how many of these claims are or what it's like to get these claims back. For these would become fundamental, i.e. means for the further functioning of the promotion of regional development and the development of indigenous communities. So the analysis itself, which we received briefly in the explanation of the law, shows that these funds were not properly distributed. In Europe, all of Europe, as well as we have co-opted or adopted criteria and instruments to promote regional development with two or three laws, including the State Aid Control Act, which checks the effectiveness of instruments, transparency, efficiency and control of money where it goes. We therefore support the government's initiative, but the government has remained in the middle of the road with this proposal. Instead of using a wide range of support instruments, as set out in the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, we will obviously remain the same. It is true that the amendment has led to a change, at the initiative of the national communities, that these funds are also allocated in the form of grants. In addition to the grants, regional aid and state aid also introduce grants and other things not to mention. In short, this is where the government, and obviously also part of the Members, stopped, because we are obviously afraid of clarity and, after all, of allowing the national communities to choose more widely. As you are aware, we also have different forms of aid allocation, horizontal, vertical, we have sectoral assistance. If the national community is particularly affected, I do not know, in the crafts sector, in the textile sector, then it must be entitled to aid on this basis. If this is a farm layer, then we have a set of aids that go through this way. And here is the role of the national community to draw attention to what is happening to the national community in that territory which instruments would be more appropriate. That is why it is also right that we are in the amendments - this is what the parliamentary group has also agreed - to co-decision or to give an opinion to the national community on regional aid, on the assistance it is being touched. So, this is kind of a position on the aid package. Others are the funds that are supposed to be in this public fund. We don't know that exactly. The state doesn't even know that. It is important to note the fact and the findings of the Court of Auditors, namely the differences in records within the framework of 4.8 billion; one part also relates to this part of the aid. This implies that we are obliged to accept proper supervision. Do we not know how much money will be in this fund, or will we not end up with a mere non-refundable claim? This will then be a poor journey for regional development and for the development of national communities, one by one. We should come with clear information. I hope that the government will find out how much money it actually has before they go into any kind of tender. For this reason, we advocate that the criteria set out in Article 21 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Economic Development apply to this Fund. I would also like to point out Article 6 of ZIPRO. This is about the consumption of purchases. Here I would like to ask the secretariat for legislation whether we may not be in any conflict with this proposed law, i.e. through the use of purchases for these purposes. For these reasons, we, in the New Slovenia Group, supported certain amendments, particularly those tabled by the national community, and also tabled with the Social Democratic Party of the Amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Any other members of the group would like a word? Please, Mr. Kelemina, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In principle, our Group of the Social Democratic Party supports the intentions of this law, but I regret to point out that the government or the ministry, especially the government, has been very superficial in the drafting of this law. Indeed, it is not really clear to us why she has actually proposed this change. In fact, they have embarked on one segment of this law, but they have not even considered that this law should be fully adapted to the existing legislation, according to the new government law or the law on the organisation of ministries. Even in amending these provisions, it would certainly be necessary to amend certain other articles, such as Articles 5 and 6, where it is still being stated, as if the Slovenian Development Company would still be in charge of the decision-making in certain matters, and with these new amendments, this right is somehow taken from them. I don't know, according to our assessment, these articles are now in conflict, and we're surprised the secretariats don't mind at all. In short, I will not emphasize all those things that have already been mentioned. The fact is that the proposed material before us is not clearly visible, irrespective of the particulars provided in this material, the way in which these funds have been used so far, the extent to which they have been recovered, the extent to which the funds are so much lost and so on. In short, the data is very superficial and we expect that it will be possible further if the government is able to make a decision on the basis of a decision to be taken by the National Assembly, which we support, in order to prepare a comprehensive amendment to this Act, so that it will also provide all this information, which is of course extremely important for further decision-making. In our Group, we also believe that we must certainly fully comply with existing legislation, both the law on coherent regional development and the law on the control of financial assistance to different entities, and we consider it inappropriate that all these things are somehow regulated through these legislations in order to try to do what was done before, in the old way, and that things have been assigned somehow arbitrarily. Our parliamentary group does not support this, so we, together with the Coalition of Slovenia or with the New Slovenia party, have tabled an amendment that will somehow put these things in place in such a way that the provisions of the existing laws will be taken more strictly into account. In doing so, we expect to have a better review of the allocation of these aids in the future. In short, we support the intentions of the law, and all the solutions that are given here, and we don't know, because of these misplaced data, are not acceptable to us. And I would also, of course, ask the Secretary, the Secretary of State, whether it is in fact necessary - on the basis of an explanation in the objectives and principles of the law, that only the allocation of funds will be governed by a new regulation on the criteria and conditions of procedures for the allocation of funds for the creation of an economic basis for indigenous national communities - a new law. In fact, if I am not mistaken, this national community has proposed an additional decision where the government is supposed to draw up a new law that would somehow define this topic in a different way than under existing legislation, according to the law on more coherent regional development and other legislation. So I ask whether it is really necessary to adopt a special law or not enough then this new regulation and other government forecasts predicting how these things will be regulated in the future. So much for an introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Any other members of the group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are no written submissions to the debate. I limit the rest of the debate to five minutes. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law as such, let's say I support it in principle, but it asks me a few questions. Without answers to these questions, I do not think we should adopt or receive answers to the law. The first question is what are the effects of the funds so far allocated, because in the Rapporteur we have two dry-cleaning tables which say that the funds have been allocated, nothing to say about how many new jobs have been created from this title, how many existing jobs have been preserved and whether these jobs bring some profits. When I get an answer to these questions, I'll make a better decision. At the same time, I would like to know, in view of what is stated in the law’s explanation, whether, at the time of its adoption, it will supplement that the funds can also be allocated irreparably, or whether all these claims will be cancelled. It's 1 billion 322 million and some change. So when I get an answer to that question, and this answer that has weight, then I'll make a much easier decision. At the same time, I think it is absolutely insufferable for both nationalities to give consent to projects or to these requests. It's a purely political choice. And because this has been so far, at least some of these projects have not been successful and will never be. And basically, projects are set up, and money is spent. This is a real state, or what has been the effect up to this law of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Replica, Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Puck. The point is that if, with other aids, such as regional development, one part can be a grant, then I do not know why that would be the case with nationalities. We've had something like this before. We don't know what's gonna happen. Then. As far as it was divided, we can see from the table. The effect isn't - it's true. But there are some jobs left in the factories. I think it is Mr Member who is from that area and knows most what factories are still operating, who have received this loan. There's quite a few of them. Anyone who can, he's normally returning money, and there's no talking about 1 billion 300 being a claim. That's not what this is about. The main thing is inside what people pay on a regular basis. I don't know how many individuals couldn't pay back. He's always like that. As for the fact that national communities can give, they have given opinions, and this seems to me to be the least they could have done if this has already been prescribed by law for their development and for their economic development. But you don't have to be afraid. Unfortunately, they don't develop too much. That's what I'm saying. After that, a lot better loans were made by the state. It is a time and moral responsibility to prepare this loan for at least the same situation as others.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The explanation to Mr Puck, who probably does not know the situation on the Coast, where all those who have received these loans are also returning them - first. Second, there is no consensus here, but an opinion. Mr Pucko will probably have to think about the following: if so far our arrangement has allocated certain resources for development or for creation, not for development, but for creation, because it is not, at least in our case it is not, so to create an economic basis for the national community, this law no longer exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I regret that the distinguished colleague and colleague have responded to my questions to the Secretary of State. In fact, this indirectly shows that something is wrong with the system so far, because if it wasn't, then I wouldn't have called. Mrs Pozsoncheva, I hate to remind you, but I must remind you that you were one of the very loud Members when there was some irreparable help, I think it went to some farmer there from Lenart or somewhere, for 112 million. Remember a little of your debates or discussions at the time, and you will probably look a little differently at the fact that - I am not against irreparable funds, but I do not support that with this law, all assets that will not return will be converted to irreparable funds or written off. This is the point of my debate, which was very short, and I just wanted to get an answer to the two questions that are completely in place for this discussion, and I have already said in the introduction that I am not in principle against the law, but I am in favour of such a law that will have effects. However, it will not give effect, or they will be worse than they could be, if there is a political opinion here, - I emphasise - the political opinion - of the national communities - of the dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you. The Secretary of State will now reply first. Please, Mr. Stromnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Well, for a little while. First of all, thank you very much for the opinions of Members and Members, which the Government will certainly be able to take into account in the further implementation of this law. But I do owe you some answers. First, grants as an instrument were proposed by the Government itself, not on the initiative of Members of the Nationality, but on its own, for this reason, and only in the part where loans are made to farmers. This is where it turns out that credit is not the right instrument. We are aware that this is a derogation from the basic objectives of the law on the use of the means of purchase, because the purchase is intended to be used only as a return on credit, for the funds to be returned. Nevertheless, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed this and, of course, is counting on the need to replace this exit after the Fund and the Fund are supposed to be maintained from some other sources, and it is clear that only budgetary resources are available here. It means that there will still be these subsidies, this part under the care of both governments and individual ministries and also parliaments, because it will have to go through the budget debate. We have already provided this year for the implementation of this invitation to tender of 70 million Slovenian Tolars for this subsidy part to be carried out in essence. That's the part. Of course, we do not, in principle, oppose the amendment created by the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party, which extends the set of instruments to all instruments of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. We note, however, that the resources are relatively small for such a wide range of instruments and that, last but not least, the purpose of the assets is to keep value-based purchases. Thus, we proposed subsidies as an exception for a very small part of the purchase assets, by 2.5% for some special purpose within this. We don't think we're going too far here and it's a lot of thought. Come in. Clean accounts and effects. I am alone in the Ministry of the Economy and I am in charge and interested in the economy. And these questions that you have opened, Mr Pucko, are of course asking me, and I have prepared answers to them. The volume of transferable assets, the extent of the claims transferred to the public fund, is based on the purchasing assets to create the economic base of indigenous national communities, amounting to 2,317 billion Slovenian tolars. These are credits that have been issued so far and will be issued this year with the call for proposals. In short, this year's call is also taken into account where the rights of use for these funds are already on the side of budget expenditure. In addition, another billion 200 million tolars are transferred to the public fund, but not for this purpose to promote nationality, but for the purpose of promoting coherent regional development under the old 1991 loans, 1992, 1993, 1994. These claims. These claims are still managed by the Ministry of Finance or our Ministry, and this is of course inappropriate today. We must transfer these claims to an institution that is qualified to deal with these matters. How many of these are bad claims? First of all, I will start with that part that concerns promoting demographically endangered areas in 1991, 1992, 1993, where, in essence, the issue is closer to finding out how many of these really bad claims have been. So we have the status of these claims. We have a bunch of lawsuits, a bunch of cases in the proceedings, because companies are no longer working, and they've got these cases. We estimate that the real payoff of these cases will actually be maybe 60%. In short, about 40% very much on the framework, it seems to us that the real value of these claims is - 60% is the real value of these claims from these past few years ago. Regarding the means of nationality: what has been allocated from 1996 onwards to 2000, and what I think is only the subject of this discussion and also your question of how it has been managed by these means, where the minority has somehow given an opinion and in some way co-decision in these matters. First of all, I'd like to say that interfering with a minority wasn't political. I am assessing this on the basis of my short one-year practice that the actual minority is here - I have not noticed this and I am responsible for saying that the minority would act politically in this regard. Now, how many of these are bad claims? We have out of these 2 billion 317s currently recorded about 250 million where something is wrong. Either that companies have already gone bankrupt, or that the bank has returned our documentation because it fails to repay, in short, it does not pay off all matters, or that we already have procedures that we already have. In short, the defence proposal: we are going and we are already conducting procedures where this is going. You can imagine, it puts this extraordinary burden on the Secretary of State and the Ministry to conduct the enforcement procedures. This is also one of the reasons why I am in a hurry to move this to a more suitable place, so that I can also deal with the ministry with other pressing problems. Otherwise, I must now commend the public fund for regional development. The Public Fund for Regional Development has as little claims as banks that lend to small, small enterprises. We have requested this report as the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund, we have received it and will consider it at the first future meeting. However, this report, as it was written, as was committed, shows that these poor claims range from 3 to 5%, no more. Why so little? Because the public fund reacts when the problem arises: it can change conditions quickly; it could, I would say, extend, find a moratorium to solve the project. And in the public fund, we actually save projects, we manage these claims. You can imagine that the Ministry is poorly mastered with these claims and that this figure is probably also larger, significantly larger than the one held by the public fund in its balance sheets. I think we are capable of good governance with these projects to actually maintain this fund. And for the part where grants are to be made, this in a transparent manner from the State budget also ensures that this work is maintained every year. Once again, only in the part where farmers are involved, because farmers are also receiving these subsidies, as a combination of subsidies and credit, either from the Ministry of Agriculture or from our public fund. And we want to equalize here in all the elements the status of the person taking the funds; now, I would say, to make this loan equally suitable for a member of Hungarian and Italian nationality as suitable for a farmer of Slovenian nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Because I was challenged, I want to answer. That is to say, even today, with disapproval, if a family is given 118 million. I understand that if there are grants, i.e. 10%, which gives the regional development fund, and a peaceful soul, I can talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u36	I don't think this debate is going anywhere. [[The ad from the bench.]] Let me do it, Mr. Pucko. Is that what you want? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with that. We'll talk about it - with colleague Pozsonchevo. At the same time, I would like to ask the Secretary of State another question related to what you have been talking about. It would be expected that this law would resolve, in an appropriate manner, any claim for grants already granted at the time when this law would enter into force. I think this would be correct because of the possible problems that you or the contractor, the public fund, will face in the future. This would be good, and I think that, for this reason, all questions about the indemnity or indemnity of open claims would be reduced to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you. We have two other debaters here, and then, Mr Secretary of State, we would ask you for an answer not to have a discussion like this, in detail. So, first Mr Drobnič, then Mr Visjak and then Mr Partljič and Mr Bernik. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. I have one specific question for the representative of the government or the secretariat. These funds to be allocated to indigenous communities, national communities, will be distributed, I do not know, under the Regulation on the criteria and conditions for the allocation of funds for the creation of the economic basis of these national communities or under Article 21 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Economic Development. So here there is a dilemma as to how with these funds, which are in this frame, how they will be available, where this limit is, the use of one asset, other means, overlap for one and the same purposes. That's a real problem for sure. And I'm asking for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Thank you. Of course, I would like to point out that here we now have a question for the government. We should do this on committees, not in plenary. I'm surprised about that, but okay. You have the right to do so. Mr. Bajuk, do you have a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Comment on your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u42	The comment is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u43	He asked a question on the board, we didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Well, that's an important question. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'll be a little short. I strongly support the purpose and purpose of the amendment of the law, but it seems to me that, after the debate, both yesterday and today, implementation and implementation are unclear and controversial. As part of adapting our legislation to the directives and principles of the European Union, we have also developed a relatively transparent, non-discriminatory, equitable way of granting state aid and, of course, also a way that is not contrary to the principles of the market economy. It shall cover all entities equally and equally in accordance with the principles, schemes, of course, and in accordance with instruments. If I understand the debate correctly and before that, we are moving away from this and regulating a new system, or one parallel. Otherwise, I do not understand why both the committee and the government did not support the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party and, of course, New Slovenia. I want to be very clear here. The rejection of the amendment forces the thinking of some reintroduction of the old, in practice a very convenient way of granting state aid: yes, under the arm. Here I would like a very clear agreement by the Secretary of State on what and where these substantive reasons are, why to seek here a parallel and unique model of granting these aids, or whether the amendment of the law is not even positively discriminatory to minorities. It's on my own. Please respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Thank you. Dr. Bernick and then Mr. Partljič, Mr. Juban. Sorry, I didn't see it was a replica. Excuse me, Mr. Juban has a replica. And I understand you signed up for the debate. Please. Mr. Bajuk also has a replica. Go ahead, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your warning was quite fitting that we on the committee have been opening such questions, and I think we have cleared them up. Your warning was quite appropriate. I hope you will also support it when we change the rules of procedure. That, by the way. My replica is intended for my colleague Vissiak. Your colleagues from one party and the other can confirm that I have even proposed because the amendments to this article are being excluded because they are both amending the article. If we both did, we'd get two new articles. And even my initiative was to reshape the amendment as follows: or in the form of an amendment to the amendment, only this option is to add to this text, which was adopted by the Committee as its own, so that article 21 of the Law on more coherent regional development is inserted. This was the sole reason that we rejected this amendment: we would get two new articles where we could only have one. Otherwise, there was no overly contentious opposition. Perhaps there is little difference between the conditions or the use of one and the other by law. But in principle, it should be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Replica, Dr. Bayuk. The debate, okay. We don't have any replicas right now. We're here to discuss Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the government! First of all, I would like to have an explanation from Mr President. I've shown up more than once before, and you haven't noticed me, sir on your right. I'd like to know what's true if you see me, or if one of your colleagues sees me up there.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u50	It's okay if I see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Thank you. I'll stick to it. However, with regard to this subject that we are considering today, it seems necessary to do something for the minority in every way. I will not continue to develop this, but I would like to ask the government two questions. First time. Are there any financial standards in this present law under which this aid is granted? And what are they like? Maybe it's written in some other law, but given the fact that there were so many bad investments, it seems to me something doesn't add up there. The second question concerns the report at this point. I don't understand why the government couldn't write here what the Secretary of State said, so we could think about these things in advance and then prepare ourselves for the whole thing. Let me mention that in the ministries and also in the government, it's becoming a habit to give us only partial data. Today - if I may say so - we had two very important laws on the table, both of them were flawed, both in the report and in documents that are an essential part of these treaties. Well, I think someone has to give this message to the government and the minister. And, Mr Secretary of State, if there is nothing else, you do this because it is absolutely intolerable that we are dealing here with things that we are not fully informed about and that we do not get sufficient data, especially when it comes to financial matters like this, this should be justified by the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u53	I'd like to replicate Mr. Juban. Yes, well, it would also be possible to design a different amendment - what we were thinking, but we would get two parallel systems again. It's against that that we don't have two parallel systems. But if we leave it without, as it is now, without our amendment, the problem is, as I have already asked in the question, by which this will be addressed, and the risk that regional schemes, not taking into account indigenous communities, will be dealt with as ordered. That's the dilemma, and that's why I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Partlych, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u55	On the Commission for the National Community we had a long discussion yesterday, I might say, even somewhat painfully, because my colleague Roberto Battelli strongly opposed the adoption of the law on changes in the law. Remember, too, that it was the one who suggested that we not adopt the law after a reduced procedure, right at the start when we adopted the agenda. This diversity of positions between the two national communities, with representatives of the Italian National Community all the time claiming that they had been excluded from the drafting of the law and only when they were observed in the Rapporteur did they get involved, and the Secretary of State really thanked them for that. Finally, even the Hungarian delegation, which was silent there in the main, distributed us some material in which it warns us, even though Mrs Pozsoncheva was very much in favour of this law, so that we do not accept it until some of the talks have been held. What I'm trying to tell you is that the thing is kind of unclear and when I argued that I wasn't there anymore and that I didn't know how to decide, besides maybe being a shorter mind or not getting deep enough here, there were at the meeting themselves enough different opinions. I now understand in a way, in particular thanks to the Secretary of State's replies, that it is actually a smaller segment, a smaller resource, and that some things are actually cleaned up in return. The longer we wait with them, the harder it'll be. From this point of view, since it seems to me that this is a more or less partial matter, I am no longer opposed to the matter. However, I say she has not satisfied any representatives of the national communities. Secondly, I'm concerned about this fund that we're assuming will be powered by purchases and returning annuity. If we write down annuities in grants of purchases, I firmly believe that the country will, hopefully, be getting less and less, because it will not stop selling, in fact, the thing is even more inconceivable, not to say, mysterious. For a while we thought that we would propose at this meeting that the third part of the hearing be postponed to the next meeting. So it turns out it's a partial solution and I'm not actually gonna find myself anymore and I'm not going to oppose the law. But the fact is, I think there is one conclusion that we have one discussion ahead of us - of course it is a positive discrimination, which we have committed to through the Constitution. But we do have one discussion that opened yesterday and that's why the representatives of the nation were against seeing that in fact our national minorities do not have, to say the least, some economic basis for their actions. This committee would, however, be composed of their representatives, who would allocate these funds but themselves, of the money they would receive, in fact, cannot decide in any way. At least somewhere outside, our national communities can't be the subject of economic development. And since they are not an entity, they may in some way also be a political subject. So it seems to me that it would be good to have a change in the law written more clearly what it actually involves, so that we do not open up all these issues around the minority, perhaps better. And since there seems to be some sort of solution here, we're all being a little opportunistic, and we're not going to the end of the story. But I think it's kind of blurry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I'm talking about the comment you've made, which is why we're saving things here. That kind of thing should be handled on the board. I would like to tell you again that the Committee has met three times on this issue. At two of these sessions, I was present, and I always asked the same questions. I think it is strictly irresponsible, especially on the Committee on the Economy, to decide on the issues without knowing what it is. In fact, we do not know how many of these funds there are. It is not clear what this solution is, nor does it know what kind of problem we are solving. We have such and other speakers that there have been some problems here that some companies have used what the well-intentioned Slovenian state has allocated to these minorities in our territory some means that have actually been used to solve the liquidity problem of some companies. Then of course we don't know how much it was. Then there is some government assessment that because it worked through banks, this is not the most appropriate. And assure the Secretary of State that if his fund does so, it will be better. Yeah, he can't say anything else! I'm sure I have to believe him, but that's not the basis for some serious decision. Then we asked what it means to change Article 8 for this geographical area where our minority lives. What law will be in force? Is this new amendment or previous Article 21 which speaks of a fund for development areas? Then I also asked this question, and I still have no answer today. There's no answer to that! What are these assets anyway? What do we give for the purchase? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Remember, when we adopted the law for the implementation of the 2001 budget in this Chamber, Article 6, which the opposition strongly opposed, we opposed. This one says that all purchases go somewhere else, with a different key. We have asked this question that the Ministry of Finance should come and make it clear how many of these purchases. Do you remember what we heard from the government representative? How irresponsible we are to have purchases with such and different laws. Today we're wondering, what's going on? And why does this seem irresponsible to me? Not just because every time we talk about funds, we need to know what resources and where. And another question that bothers me terribly. I would expect our neighbouring countries to act with our minorities in their countries as we have advocated for minorities in our territory. I don't know if it's just some nice wishes! What exactly is going to happen? How much money do we have for this? I don't understand any minority representatives that they're happy about this law. They don't know. Apparently, the bride, what's going on and how much of this is going to happen. We don't know if he's going to be in control of the law on budget implementation and Article 6 or if it's going to be something else. I've asked the law enforcement department this question, and I don't have an answer. But it seems really irresponsible for us to continue to debate this issue until we have clear things on the table. Gentlemen, the country has given over two billion tolars in the last five years. I hear you're here right now, and at this session we've learned some answer, but it's not finished yet, to that question, something over 40% is not going to come back. Then what are we doing? Have we actually changed anything? What have we changed? What do we obviously change? Why of all the instruments, since Article 21 of this Fund provides why we limit it to only two? Why don't you do other things? There are no answers to these things, there are no answers, and we have not heard them today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that, despite the fact that we are in a great hurry to find the right answers to these questions. Look, what we're going to do with a minority in our territory, we can also expect what neighbouring countries are going to do with our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Ferry Horvat has applied for the debate. Then we will ask for answers to the questions raised today and on the committee. Also the secretariat, yes. Please, Feri Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I have to say in explanation - not to challenge a fellow opposition or other colleagues - that the committee was at some point before the decision, or to proceed with the consideration of this law, is referred to as a second reading, and to prepare amendments, or to propose or support the proposal of one of the parliamentary groups, to postpone the law or to withdraw it from the agenda at all. However, for pragmatic reasons, the committee followed the argument made by the representative of the Government, State Secretary Strumčnik, that this would actually cause damage, because there would be a delay in the implementation of the purchase law, the ninth indent, which says, "to create an economic basis for the indigenous national community, 2.5% of the purchase is made" and nothing else is said by this law; it is a very sceptic. This is why there have been difficulties in implementing this law in practice, and this is why the government is proposing changes that do not generally resolve this issue in the best way, but at least improve the situation as is the result of this law. That is why the Committee then supported these changes. However, in view of the issues raised on the Committee, as has now been the case, particularly by the opposition colleagues, and rightly so, as well as by colleagues of the position, including representatives of the national communities, the Committee then identified a proposal for a decision to draw up a proposal for a law or a system-wide and comprehensive solution, both through a specific law or a special instrument and in combination with other instruments, regional policy instruments and, as stated by its colleague, Dr Baiuk and his colleague, at the meeting of the Committee, how to ensure a broader set of measures, which will also help to strengthen the economic base of the national community and the whole area where national communities live, in conjunction with other instruments, including policies and obligations that we have towards the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of issues which have now been raised here and which are under discussion go beyond the scope of this law. The short-term law, i.e. only with minor changes, which improve the situation, makes sense to support and adopt it, and, of course, then to address as soon as possible the general question of how to promote, in what ways to encourage, the systematicly more appropriate promotion of the economic base of national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you. I would ask the Secretary of State to give answers to the questions raised and then, of course, our secretariat for legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Dear Members! I think I have the answers to those questions that are necessary for today's decision. Of course, I do not have the answers to everything that can be developed as an upgrade to today's debate in this national assembly and that concerns the situation of national communities. So, with regard to Article 6 of ZIPRO and possible non-conformity, we have repeatedly explained this, including by the secretariat, it is likely that today this will explain what has been said - there is no discrepancy here. ZIPRO 2001 provides that the purchases are to be made where they are to be placed; in short, at the expense of the Ministry of Finance and then beyond that distribution set out there. As a result of this amendment to this law, today's law, which we are considering, says that purchases from 1.1.2002 begin to be collected in the account of the Public Fund for Regional Development. This does not mean again, Mr Bajuk, that there is no hurry, because all claims and obligations are transferred within 15 days to the public fund and the matter can begin to be resolved today where the problems are, precisely so as not to be inconsistent with the ZIPRO, but this has been determined. Mr Drobnič, there is a regulation already in force by law - now the law in force on the use of the means of purchase stipulates that the government adopts a regulation where it lays down rules and defines how these aids are to be granted. Thus, these aids were regulated by the rules, by means of sub-laws and also by the implementation of those sub-legislative acts. The problem was that the law itself was clear and that interpretations of various parts of the government, particularly the Ministry of Finance up to, I would say, these funds or the successful use of these funds were unfriendly. This is one of the reasons that led to the loss of these assets last year. Last year, we had a major outage of these funds, which further exacerbated the problems on the ground. Perhaps one part of the answer can now be given to what the effects on the jobs of these funds are. At that time, in the last year in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to free up these funds, the real friendly interpretation of the law could mean between 90 and 100 new jobs directly related to those investments that have stood and could not be made to a large extent last year in Pomurje, where there is a major problem. It is so certain that these funds help in this regard. I can't guarantee you how many jobs will be open here. I do not know how many jobs have been opened by past investments in these areas. I am in control of the information system in this area for one year. At that time, I ordered a study that was able to identify these problems, set up a base database, and that's what I'm establishing. So we are counting on this and we are seriously counting on such reports to start coming to Parliament. In short, as many other funds as the state of Slovenia is committed to promoting development after various calls for proposals, it is likely to be successful, too. They weren't less successful. The way in which these effects are monitored is also about as incomplete, but far from being illegal so as not to exist. In short, there are mechanisms of control, of control over these things, but of course there is much to be done in order to be what everyone would like to be. At least I think Europe is bringing us high standards here and we need to significantly improve the system of monitoring and control over these funds. Here I can only agree with the honourable Members, who have pointed out this as actually one urgent matter. Now it's a public fund. The public fund has rules of its own operation, rules of operation of the public fund. These rules are currently in the procedure of the State Aid Control Commission. Within these rules, it is stipulated how to deal with old claims. In short, we are currently breaking down this system of dealing with old claims due to that part of the funds that are already intended to promote demographic or regional development through the Fund and these same rules will also apply to that special public fund account that is now being opened here and concerns one segment of the funds dedicated to regional development. And now we come up with it. These funds we are discussing today are intended for regional development. They shall be subject to the principles of the operation of the public fund, to regional development, to the investment policy of the public fund, and shall be subject to the rules of operation of the public fund. However, there is also a government regulation which specifically sets out those details which do not specify and concern the means of nationality to promote the economic base of nationality which are not laid down in the general regulation governing regional development. We do not see a contradiction here if we see it, we would not propose such a solution, because I am the responsible secretary of state, of course, first for regional development, but also within this regional development, to promote minorities in terms of regional development. I have explained this many times, all these matters on the committees, on the commissions, in the public, on the round tables, in Pomurje, in Ljubljana, all over the last year, and I think we are moving on quickly here. We're also spreading a set of instruments. We're seriously spreading a set of instruments. A while ago, I got the question here that the law on promoting coherent regional development did not take advantage of all the instruments referred to in Article 21. Not really, but more than three months ago. The calls that have now gone into the publication that are now in the Official Journal already have built-in provisions that Slovenian regions and municipalities are classified in lists A, B, C, D and that when projects are selected, a certain number of points are to be placed on the A-list region, a slightly smaller number of points to the B-list region. Here I now have specific calls and I also intend to report to the National Assembly on the first occasion when the opportunity for which we have managed to incorporate this objective of coherent regional development into horizontal, other ministries' incentives and policies that go across the country. And that is what we intend to do in the future for nationalities. This warning given is a good warning. All instruments available to achieve the secondary objectives must be used. I don't think we have much experience here so far in the past. More or less, we are solving the first objective that the second, third, fourth goal remains something the Ministry does not actually see as much as it sees this first objective. Finally, this concerns the problem of reorganisation of the government. With the restructuring of the Ministry of Economy, we have made great progress in this direction. Firstly, we are adding this business initiative to regional development and this initiative is also present here when it comes to national resources. In short, this is about entrepreneurial incentives; it is not just some incentive; it is about those incentives that give the fastest and the greatest impact, the most jobs. In short, this is a clear policy. Well, now the fund - what will happen when the funds of the purchase are gone. I hope that at that time we will have a fund that will, at least to a certain extent, be able to sustain itself further. If we can achieve the efficiency of the public fund, which is empirically proven and calculated - in short, this 3%, 5% loss rate - then you can, if we can continue to do so, such a degree of efficiency of the public fund, and if we transfer it to the means of purchase, then I say that this is not just a word, but a word based on the empirical fact that I have brought out here today. In short, the effectiveness of the public fund for regional development, I am putting on the table evidence that this is possible and that it is not necessary that all the funds earmarked for development be chocolates, which would ultimately be intended to fill holes through the budget or from other sources. We must overcome this paradigm of throwing resources into holes. We believe that this solution, which we are proposing, is precisely a step in the right direction, in this direction; it is a step to increase the efficiency of these funds. I forgive myself if I don't - let me remind you of what I haven't answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Mrs Bitenchev will also reply on behalf of the secretariat, and then we will move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I would, of course, limit myself to two legal system issues, which, firstly, concerns this compliance with the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget and the relationship between the law and further instruments on the consumption of the purchase and the purpose of supporting the economic basis of national communities, indigenous national communities, to the law on the promotion of regional development. As far as the first question is concerned, in fact, we would like to repeat in some way what the government has already said. The law on the implementation of the budget applies to 2001. In the third paragraph of Article 6, in the second paragraph, it explicitly refers to the cash received from repayable loans granted for loans, etc. in accordance with the purposes set out in Article 7 of the Law on Purchase, which we are considering, and which will be announced by the end of 2001. In fact, the law under consideration refers to those funds which will, as it says, be returned in the form of annuity for the loans granted which will arrive after 2001. It is said that the end of 2001 is a turning point in the use of funds - I will say - from the annuity of the loans given under this law. So that we can't actually see from this point of view [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] the timing of the time divides the spending of resources - what will be given, which will be paid as annuity. [[...]] This year will be spent on repayment of debts at the expense of financing, as we understand, in accordance with Article 74 of the Public Finance Act. However, what will come after 2001, it is said, starting with 2002, that will be collected in the special account of the Public Fund for Regional Development and so on referred to in the second paragraph of Article 7. As regards the relationship between the instruments available under this Act for the financing of the economic basis of indigenous national communities, I would point out in particular: that these instruments are in fact the implementation of Article 64(1) of the Constitution by which the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities are guaranteed the right to preserve their national identity through the development of economic activities, and this right has in fact materialised. On this basis, a specific regulation on the criteria for the allocation of these funds has also been issued, and in fact we believe that the criteria set out in the law on the promotion of regional development do not apply, but, of course, it is likely that in the course of the course of the event, I will say, it is wise to manage matters and, as we see now, that both resources will be distributed within the framework of the public fund. In order to emphasise the following: that the amendments tabled and corrected are now: "for the new third paragraph of Article 8", in our opinion, in fact, there is an unnecessary lack of clarity in the text of Article 8, even the contrary, because it is clear from the current text proposed by the amendment that loans will be used for the needs of the national community and grants will be used. However, at this point no guarantees will be used and will not be used, obviously, even tax reliefs and also some other receptions which, under Article 21 of the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development, are available for means of demographic development. We simply point out that if the third paragraph is adopted, then the first two paragraphs are unnecessary. In fact, we believe that, with regard to the instruments available under Article 8, whether loans and subsidies are sufficient should be discussed, then the reference to Article 21 should prove unnecessary; but if this should be extended already, the first and second paragraphs should of course also be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State has had time to walk around on television to interpret this law - just now you said - and also on the round tables. But you didn't find time to go to minorities, neither in Lendava nor in Cyprus - that's what they told you yesterday. But that's your business. Although 2.5% No, you will say how much activity has been between minorities and you over the past week. [[...]] You said that yesterday, but before -- and you said that you were preparing this marriage for a year. That's what this is all about today. Yes, Mr Horvath, it is not only for the damage they want to do that would have occurred if they had not adopted this law. I think this marriage is more about writing off debts. So much for you. Now I'm gonna tell you. I have a letter from the coastal self-government community of Italian nationality saying that the law is unacceptable to them. At the same time, I have a letter from the Hungarian Hungarian Self-Governmental Community of Lendava, which says that it is in principle supportive that the proposed amendments should still be negotiated with the relevant Ministry due to certain uncertainties or inconsistencies. It is said that this law was not in line with the national minorities, so those we have are two. [[Although I don't know where the Roma are, let's just leave it.]] . So, because of this - I don't know why it was that national minorities didn't call and interpret if you had time to go elsewhere, and also because of this, these questions that were raised here by colleagues. I'm taking this moment: I'm not going to support this law, I'm going to say it loud and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u66	Replicas in order: Dr. Bajuk, for Mr. Kelemino I don't know for sure if it was a replica Was it a replica? [[Yeah.]] Then Mr. Horvath, Mrs. Possonec, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Juban, did you also have a replica in mind? Okay, you'll see. And Mr. Peterle. So much so that we know what replicas are right now. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My replica, however, raised the question of what the representative of the secretariat was talking about. I want to understand clearly the following. The law provides that 2.5% of purchases are for this particular purpose; and this is for the economic development of national communities. The question that I have with regard to the law on the implementation of the budget for 2001 is of a different nature. This Article sets out in the second paragraph, let's say that the purchase from the sale of Talun shares is one thing, no matter what year it actually takes. Then others also determine, that is to say, from the full volume of purchases this article determines where all of this will go. Now it's gonna be my question. This 2.5% also applies to all the things that this law provides for, right? Is he in line or not in line? What exactly do we give our minorities? First question. The second question - if not, I would like the Chairman of the Finance Committee, our colleague Pucka, to explain to us what the government had or the Ministry of Finance, what they had in mind when they proposed Article 6 because it was obviously late, but we do not know because we have no answer here yet. Then I would like to ask about what you said about Article 8 and Article 21. If I understand this thing correctly, it goes the following way. In a geographical area where a minority lives, we will now be able to apply Article 8. This is said to follow a certain key, some limitation on the resources provided for in Article 21 of the Act. But I'd like to ask why we even included an extra 11.5%. Isn't it that something comes through the back door here too on the day that there will be 11.5% of the purchases that are about to develop the countryside, that there will actually be some change here, and it will work on a different key. Why 11.5%, too, why not 12.5? So, I'd like to know how much it represents in money 2.5%, what we're talking about. Because now we have a bunch of laws, including ZIPRO, and I want to know how we're gonna do it. Which law will apply in geographical areas: or Article 8 or only 2.5%, or will it also apply to 11.5 and why? Because it has nothing to do with minorities. What's really going on? As long as we don't have an answer to this question, I think it's irresponsible to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. I would remind the Secretary of State that, at least, I did not listen to him carefully enough so that he did not answer my questions when I presented the opinion of the Group of Members. [[...]] In fact, you haven't answered why you haven't prepared a clear answer. Why you did not take into account the comprehensive amendments to this law, all the articles that actually concern new legislation - I think that we should know it and that these changes should then be harmonised and written in full. Then there's another question. Is it not, by not deleting itself in Article 5, paragraph 2, and Article 5, paragraph 1, where the powers of the Ministry of the Economy and of the Slovenian Development Society are still laid down, that is not then inconsistent with what we are accepting today? And: will this not be an obstacle to the implementation of this law? I'm also interested in this relationship because we can't change five articles. But I'm also interested in what I've already asked you, and you haven't answered. Is there really a need for a new law on creating an economy for indigenous national communities if you have stated in your explanation that the new regulation on criteria and conditions, and so on, will all these things be properly resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Actually, I don't know why my colleague Gasparini replicated it to me. Now he's not here to answer it. However, I have to answer because he misinformed the course of events or discussions. In my discussion or replica, I explained why the committee acted in a way that it did. Secondly, it is true that we also received letters from both national communities to the Committee on the Economy with a diametrical opposite position and that we also interrupted the Committee's meeting yesterday because of the opposite positions and waited for the outcome of the Commission's meeting for National Communities. In fact, for the first time, support was expressed for the law, and for the second time, a compromise solution was found in support of the amendment signed on behalf of the National Community Group of Members, colleague Maria and colleague Battelli. At the same time, it must also be said that it was incorrect, as previously said, to introduce consensus, but the opinion is being introduced that the national community should give an opinion on the annual programme of activities to promote measures to strengthen the economic base of the national community. This is also a response to the observation made by colleague Gasparini that the government has not consulted the national communities on its promotion measures. I have to say this in the end. See, in this debate and in the debates so far, we had to do even within the national communities with diametrically opposite views. And also with a diametrical contrast to the views of fellow Members. In fact, on the one hand, the view that these funds should simply be given to the organisation of the national community, which will then continue to share them, which the Committee on the Economy felt was not appropriate from an economic point of view. And of course, the second position: the question whether this instrument is needed at all, I think Comrade Vizjak has put it under question as a parallel instrument. Colleagues and colleagues, this instrument does not now introduce this novelty of the law, but it is enshrined in the purchased law of 1995. This was also the reason why the committee adopted the decision, at the proposal of colleague Kelemina, and we also attracted other members of the committee to the fact that it was necessary to actually make the amendment or review this law and to make the amendment of this law and update it. All of this leads to the need to have a general debate on how to promote the strengthening of the economic base of the national community, but not with other regional policy instruments and other measures, in view of such different positions. However, this goes beyond the scope of this law again, which follows a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only say so much that since 1997 we have been dealing with this matter. On purpose, I said that my fellow Italians and I went to see Mr Klanchar, when he was Secretary of State, he didn't move that much. Literally like Don Quixote, I don't know how many times I've been to you, and before that and finally with personal interest, Mr. Secretary of State has achieved that the law is now ahead of us. If someone doesn't deserve to be criticized, then I think at least he does. During this time, he also found an opportunity to do one study on where we are actually standing in an area where Hungarian nationalities live. He had time, went to Lendava and explained that research, and he went to Lendava several times, and I know that, not once. He had time to translate the laws of both languages of nationality into Italian and Hungarian. Look, my colleagues at home, they had a Hungarian translation, so it's not true that they got acquainted with this law two days ago. So I think all these eyewitnesses are unjustifiable. As a matter of fact, I would ask the Secretary of State to forgive my nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a while, we hoped that this law would enable us to implement the provision of the Constitution previously read by the Head of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. This was a starting point because we lived some in illusion. Obviously, what we've been trying to build for at least 10 years, and actually more, can happen with the means of purchase. As a result of the procedure which was applied, this objective could not be achieved because the reduced procedure prevents wider and deeper interference with certain laws. Knowing that either for the political reasons stated by Mr Horvat or for the legal and technical reasons that we have learned in the course of the formation of this law, I have come to the conclusion, and many colleagues have also come to the conclusion that, when this law is not adopted, not only do we not solve anything, but we do not solve anything, even with regard to issues that have been fully raised, regarding the use of certain funds for certain purposes. We can't save anything. We can lose this percentage of the purchase funds according to the mechanism that the government is introducing and the role of the finance ministry in this and lose the ability to solve certain current problems. So if we refuse, we achieve nothing and make things even more complicated. In principle, as far as possible, best behaviour could be done; I personally reject it as a principle of policy application, except in extreme cases. Therefore, personally, despite the position of my self-governing national community, I advocate the adoption of this law. Above all, I ask all my colleagues to support the additional decision presented to the National Assembly by the Commission on National Communities and the Committee on the Economy and which binds the Government, as well as us, to take very seriously the implementation of the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also remind you that both the privatisation law, so-called, business ownership law and so on, as well as the purchasing law, are talking about means to create the economic foundation of national communities, not to promote the economic foundation of national communities. Why? In particular, because national communities have no economic basis and there is nothing to encourage and then we go on lending and we use different mechanisms that are supposed to comply with legislation, directives and so on. But also to those who talk about state aid rules and European directives in this regard, let me say that this applies to state aid, but when it comes to measures to protect national communities, it is not the same logic and it is not the same thing. This is not the form of State aid which is defined as unacceptable in the functioning of a normal company. On the contrary, any normal society where the historical national communities in particular are, protects them by means of special mechanisms. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I overstepped the time I had at my disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I would like to know whether it is possible to avoid the fact that in one year we have three different laws on the same subject to deal with the same problems. We are now approaching this situation, because of the fear that the finance minister would not clear up some funds, it is now proposed that we support this poor solution and start working immediately for the better. I would not be surprised to see another extraordinary meeting in mid-August when the government finds that something is still missing, that something is still in conflict with Brussels and that we must act quickly. Here I would like a clear answer whether it is necessary to follow such a complicated path and after a reduced procedure, which is clearly becoming an extended process, in the fog with which it began, it is clear that this clearance will take some time, because there are as many shows as possible, but there are questions, although at least some have been partially answered. I do not want a situation in which a minority or a minority or a minority feel under pressure to support this law so that it does not come under pressure or worse. Above all, I am interested in how we will agree only on the situation in which both minorities will feel in such a way that they feel that they are also in the economic field. By this law, with this change of law, I understand the matter, it is at least temporary on the road, when a minority somehow withdraws or is severely restricted. For a long time, I have not seen such diverse interests in the adoption of a law, when minorities are either not united or now, after all, in some way strategically united but interestingly different. Nor do I want to see the situation where laws are being changed to cover the interests of a group, because it cannot be resolved differently, but in this way we can lose a system regime that would cover both minorities. Nor would I like to see the change in the ministers or the names of the secretary of state rush in here with the laws, because someone is not doing well or because someone has just started something good. I do not want Parliament to be in such a position. I am asking you to avoid turning around for a long time, whether it is possible to agree that we are going a different way or without changing this law. I have the impression that the belief that this marriage is not necessary is that we do not have a minority of problems or worry about what will happen to that money. I think that money can stay for the right purpose, too, and you don't have to be afraid that Rob would take it, as it's called, even if we don't accept the change. I see that even within the coalition, Members speak differently about these matters and it would also be useful for them to speak in a uniform manner throughout this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you. Who wants another word? There's no more debate. Then I would suggest that we conclude the general debate, and with this also the first hearing and move on to the second reading I do not see any contradictions, I do not see any interest in the debate. I am moving on to a second reading - discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. Here I would like to draw attention, as we say, to the two materials that we have received today, one is an additional report, and the other is an amendment or an amendment review. The date is 25.7.2001. Today it was distributed in the afternoon. In this second treatment, we would have followed the order as usual. We will therefore lead the debate after this review of the amendments. I'm moving on to Article 1. I am opening the debate on Article 1. No one wants to discuss it. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, 2 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 is adopted. We're at Article 2. We have two amendments here. Sorry, there's five of them. Yeah, yeah, sorry about my mistakes. There are five amendments. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 2. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendments to Article 2. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 38 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Following the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to the third amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at the fourth amendment. If this is adopted, then the 5th vote is unnecessary, they are therefore excluded. So we are at the fourth amendment and we are moving on to the vote on this fourth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the fourth amendment has been adopted and therefore there is no need to vote on the fifth amendment. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour of Article 2. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We're at Article 3. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 3. While we have two amendments here, please replace the amendments under number 2 with the text on the special paper sheet. Please, if you could take a look at this material. It's SDSin NSI. It says here: The amendment to Article 3 is corrected by reading. This is the amendment you have under order number 2 in your review. Both amendments are also excluded, but first I am opening a debate on both amendments to Article 3. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we get to the vote? Can I? Good. We will first vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 3. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. There is no need to vote on the second amendment and there is no need to vote on the third article, as we have only completely amended the article. We're moving on to Section 4. In Article 4, we have three amendments, as we see. I'm opening a debate on the amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] So we're going to the vote. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please! Of the 57 present, 40 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are still voting on the third amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 51 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 4 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 57 present, 50 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. Article 5 has not been amended, but we must still vote and discuss it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We can vote on Article 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Here we have an amendment to the title of the law. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on an amendment to the title of the law. Can I have your attention, please? Let's vote, please, on the amendment to the title of the law. Of the 61 present, 50 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the title has been accepted. We are now voting on the title of the law as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the title of the law has been adopted, or I note that we have thus concluded our decision on the title. We're moving to third reading. I note that the amendments to Article 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the draft law were adopted in the second reading, so to speak, to Article 1, 2, 3 and 4, and to the title of the law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u79	I have a procedural proposal or a warning. The president said that the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and of New Slovenia is not voted on because it is irrelevant. In the light of the amendment's correction, this amendment is not irrelevant because it complements the text of Article 8(3). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Procedural or what you said about the non-exclusion of amendments, first and second, should be stated as follows. If we look at the amendment under order number one, that makes it clear that the matter will be clear, and because it is just now time for the amendment to be tabled, I am explaining it. The first amendment states: "The text of Article 8 shall be replaced by the word..." So, the whole 8th is changing. The amendment that was tabled says, "A new third paragraph is added." And now, if Article 1 is fully adopted, then there is no basis for a new third paragraph. That's the interpretation. That's how I understood it when we were reviewing this material. So if you were, there's no connection between these amendments. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. I would like to reiterate once again that it is possible to enforce rules of procedure and interests in this regard, so I have said that amendments under 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the title of the draft law were adopted in the second reading. This was accepted. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please make a toast. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u81	I'm asking for a five-minute recess so that an amendment can be tabled. Or, if there is another solution to the second law, it is postponed to a third.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u82	We usually did so, and if you agree to do so, you will do so now. Good. Thank you very much. So I interrupt the point so that qualified applicants can table an amendment. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the asylum law, the speedy procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're starting our first hearing. I welcome Mr. Minister Bohintz with his colleagues. I'm asking if he wants a word. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few minutes to comment on the proposal for a new law. You will certainly remember that in December of last year we adopted the first amendment to the Asylum Act, which was adopted in 1999. By the way, this paper referred to the grounds for the detention of an asylum seeker if he expressed doubts or suspected of abuse of this institution. By the way, let me say that for this reason, we have not taken the liberty of any of us in this period, but this novel from December has acted extremely favourably because the number of alleged and true abuses is decreasing. I would like to give you some information that will present a change, a significant difference in the situation in which we are in this year and last year in view of the situation in which the Asylum Act of 1999. It may already be this information that in 1990 there were only 760 asylum applications that this number jumped to almost 10,000 in 2000, which certainly shows a completely different situation. You probably remember last year, as well as several times this year, that in 2000 there were illegal refugees over 35,000 in Slovenia and that this is a 95% increase compared to 1999. Thus, the situation has changed significantly, and the number of asylum seekers and refugees has increased significantly in 2000 and this level is maintained in 2001. Maybe I'll give you six months' worth of information this year. In 2000 12,305 illegal refugees, in 2001 12,196. This means at a level or slightly below the level of last year. As regards the number of applications for asylum in 2000 1,240, in 2001 1,057. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a significant number of backlogs in dealing with asylum applications in 2000 and that more than 2,500 are outstanding. One reason for this is the failure of the law to adapt to the new situation. If you remember, in December we promised a more thorough review of the law. That's what you've got ahead of you now. The goals we're following here are the following. Firstly, the reduction of procedures, the acceleration of procedures, the increased rationality in proceedings, and therefore the legal deadlines in which different courts must act and those who decide to do so, the shortening of the deadlines for the appeal procedure for manifestly unfounded requests, the restriction on the submission of evidence documents at the end of the hearing, and some such clauses as we propose to ensure greater efficiency, greater rationality, faster procedures and the elimination of backlogs in this area that are not so small. Of course, this is just one of the goals, but we put it first. The second of the objectives was to harmonise the law with the Constitutional Court in November, which, as most of you know, required three cases of decisions on asylum proceedings, i.e. in addition to the decision of the competent ministry and the decision in the administrative dispute adopted by the administrative court, and the decision of the Supreme Court against the decision of the administrative court. I would particularly like to draw attention to this issue because there have been many different points of view in previous discussions, including legal arguments. After a reasoned and in-depth reflection and expert analysis, the Government proposed a third instance, namely, the Supreme Court as the Court of Appeal, but with the restriction that the decision of the second instance does not delay enforcement, which means that the appeal is not a reason for the removal of a foreigner. This is an arrangement which, following the example of many European countries, is supposed to rationalise procedures in the sense that proceedings do not continue before the removal of a foreigner, even in the Supreme Court of Midway, I should say that these procedures last year have lasted about two months and that there have been six such proceedings. Well, the Committee has taken a different position here, which, from the point of view of the legal profession, cannot be challenged or sufficiently consistent and supported by some legal positions, but this view that the third instance does not have a suspension effect is more rational and therefore the government insists on doing so. In particular, I would like to say that, in addition to these two objectives, it is said that achieving rationality, achieving consistency with the Constitutional Court's decision, is in a novelly contained series of innovations, which constitute alignment with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, I would like to draw attention here to the Dublin Convention, of which the European Union is a member. I would also draw attention to some further alignment with the European Convention on Human Rights. Here I would specifically remind you of the implementation of the principle of non-refoulement in a dangerous country, the so-called "non-reform" principle, in parallel with which we have also established a special institution of legal protection for those who have not obtained refugee status in an asylum procedure, because there were no conditions and cannot be returned to their country, which is, in terms of human rights or other circumstances, dangerous to them. I particularly stress this because there have been some obvious debates to give priority to rationality at the expense of reducing the standards of rights for this category of population. This is not true, I must reject this with the very argument that, in fact, a fully equivalent standard of protection is being introduced for those in the European Union and that we are giving further guarantees to those, including on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights, who have not obtained asylum rights because they do not fulfil the reasons for this. In short, that's some news. I am sure that this will be one of the measures, i.e. to accept the novels for a gradual yet order and a calming of the situation concerning foreigners who have come illegally to Slovenia. To conclude, however, it is only one of the many measures that the government is preparing in the systemic, normative area as well as in other areas, in particular with regard to accommodation capacity and also with regard to State border control, as well as the various international activities that we are carrying out here in order to cooperate mainly with neighbouring countries, border states in addressing this issue together. I can announce that you will receive a resolution on migration policy already in the autumn part of the amendment to the Foreigners Act and the resolution on migration policy. These are two documents which are in the context of regulating newly created situations caused by increased pressure from foreigners in 2000 and 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The report of the Internal Policy Committee, Mr Lavrinc, follows.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u85	No, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Madam Vice President. Mrs. Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members and Members of Parliament and distinguished ministers and representatives of the Government and the Secretariat. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on asylum at its 12th extraordinary meeting, which was held in the first part of the general debate, which is on 20 July, and held a second and third hearing this morning. First, Mr Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, gave the committee an introductory explanation and presented the objectives of the law to the Committee. He pointed out that the proposal under consideration aimed primarily at improving the effectiveness of procedures for the recognition of refugee status, at the same time the patudis, meant to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision with European Union law and Council of Europe law. He further specifically explained how the drafting of the amendments had taken place, namely, during the preparation of several coordinations with civil society institutions, but unfortunately, as it appears from the report on the bill, civil society representatives, particularly Amnesty International, and KUD France Prešeren, cautioned that there had not been full harmonisation taking account of their comments. The issue of third-instant protection of rights in the asylum process, which the Minister has just discussed, remained open. The draft law was discussed below by the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and had no comments on the rapid procedure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this law. However, it had a number of comments on the text of individual amendments, in particular on the replacement of the Institute of Legality with a finality, on the uncertainty of the distinction between the conditions for granting humanitarian asylum and special protection to the type of act issued by the Authority if the applicant comes from a third safe country and on the repeal of the articles transferring the rights of refugees to sub-legislative acts. For a more detailed explanation of these comments, please refer to the report. The Committee then began a general debate in which all the debaters supported the law to be dealt with in a rapid manner. However, there was a serious concern about the establishment of a definitive institute because it is an institution of administrative and not judicial proceedings. In addition, the enforceability of the final decision shall be established as soon as the decision has been issued by the authority and not by its award. Therefore, such an arrangement is constitutionally disputed because the complaint in these cases is no longer an effective remedy. It was precisely because of these concerns that two groups of Members tabled amendments in the second debate. Following the first reading, the Committee adopted the amendments this morning and expressed its support for the amendments to Articles 10, 14 and 17. He supported the amendments to Articles 2, 5, 17, 18 and 25 tabled by Members Danica Simšič and Majda Potrat and supported the amendment to the 20th Article of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dušan Vukko. At the same time, the Internal Policy Committee adopted three additional amendments, namely Articles 9, 19 and 21. However, with regard to the amendments adopted by the Committee, some other questions and some concerns about individual legal solutions have been raised, so Members have announced, in fact, I must say, that Members have announced the submission of additional amendments to Articles 12 and 13 of the bill for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. You also have these proposed amendments on your hands. Following a second hearing, the Committee moved to a third reading. Since no additional amendments were tabled, it has yet to be fully defined until the law. The Internal Policy Committee is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act with all the additions I have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mrs. Zupan, on behalf of NSI, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, representative of the government! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Law proposes a rapid procedure with a view to speeding up the conduct of procedures in this area, reducing backlogs and costs, regulating the adjustment effects in the local community, aligning legislation with the Constitutional Court's decision and aligning legislation with the European acquis and the Convention on Human Rights. Indeed, the fact is that the number of asylum seekers has increased significantly this year as well, and the second fact is that only a small part of them remain and are awaiting asylum proceedings. The gap between the developed and the underdeveloped is increasing, resulting in increasing pressure from the underdeveloped to the West. In Slovenia, as in other European countries, we do not have the right answer to solve this global problem. We can therefore argue that there will be an ever-increasing contradiction between the developed and undeveloped major sources of conflict in this century. Slovenia is currently a transit country and will soon become a target country for foreigners coming from underdeveloped countries. In fact, how the state will react does not yet have a proper strategy. The fact that the state has not yet been able to address the problem of asylum homes points to its infirmity in this area. We're adopting a second amendment to the Asylum Act. First, we hope that it was effective, and secondly, it shows that it will not have the effect originally envisaged. There is a constant fear that we will not act humanly and lawfully enough when dealing with illegal immigrants and, on the other hand, that we will not know or want to cut into this area effectively. If we have a relatively effective mechanism for dealing with illegal immigrants, we will be able to maintain a balance between the protection of human rights, on the one hand, and the protection of economic, social and national interests. Otherwise, the lack of trust of the indigenous population towards immigrants may even increase significantly, which will threaten their fundamental human rights and freedoms. And that's not what any of us want. The asylum process is a special procedure in all countries and finding the right measure between the effectiveness and respect for constitutional rights is not easy. In doing so, the judicial protection of asylum seekers plays an important role as it is a specific category of parties. It's definitely a complex matter. The Ombudsman also draws attention to this problem of asylum seekers in his report, in particular to the unsustainable situation in the Centre for the Elimination of Foreigners and in the Asylum Home. Otherwise, interest in this issue is also one of the indicators of Slovenia's readiness to join the European Union, which shows that it is aware of the importance of human rights, the decent life of individuals. I must be aware that unwelcome foreigners are also people to whom we must provide the conditions for normal life during the period of their temporary accommodation with us and at the same time protect them from any inhuman and degrading behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Any other members of the group would like to present their views? Mr. Stemberger from the SMS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Thank you. When we adopted the Asylum Act at the beginning of the mandate, the members of the party of young Slovenia, which we supported at the time, made it clear that this law would not solve anything without more detailed provisions and that the acute situation, as suggested by the proponents at the time, would fall into a coma without more detailed implementing provisions. It is now possible that the government has passed this law, which we are discussing today, late but not too late. So another law on changes and additions to the law on asylum. In the party of young Slovenia we thought it was necessary to support it. We were convinced that it ensured effective and professional management of asylum procedures, in accordance with standards, agreements and international conventions. It was important for us that the draft law also follows the Constitutional Court's decision to introduce a third stage in asylum procedures. At the same time, we thought it was the right solution in the bill that the appeal to the Supreme Court did not have a suspension effect. This would prevent abuse and abuse of the right to asylum causes the most problems in this area. On the Internal Policy Committee, the situation has changed slightly, as a number of new amendments have been adopted, some of which are essential. Although the Minister has answered our questions that the amendments to the amended law do not significantly affect the achievement of the stated objectives of the law - here I am thinking mainly of the amendment which introduces the concept of jurisdiction in a certain article instead of finality - he has not convinced us. We cannot take responsibility for this law and, therefore, if the National Assembly approves the above-mentioned amendments on the Committee, we will abstain from law. Unfortunately, we are confident that the story of the acute situation regarding the asylum problem will be repeated at the end of the year and extended to the acute situation in the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] There were no written applications for the debate, so we will limit the debates of individual Members and Members to five minutes. So I am opening a debate between Members and Members who have not applied in writing. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, the general debate is thus concluded and the first debate is concluded. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. First of all, I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Can we vote on this proposal for a decision? Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour. I note that the proposal has been adopted. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I am moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act - a rapid procedure. Date 25.7. This is the material that was distributed today. I am putting amendments to Article 2 into the debate. We have two amendments here. Who wants a word? At the first amendment, the Magi's proponent. Majda Potrate and Simšič Danica are not recorded to be supported by the committee. That's what they signaled me just now. They're shutting down. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Purgatory!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Allow me to speak only in this case and to say that the amendments that we have tabled with colleague Simšič have in fact followed one thought, and this is what has already been highlighted in the debate of the Internal Policy Committee in the general debate. In view of the possibility, however, that a third instance of protection of rights could be introduced by law or amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act. Even though the government or the ministry had considered introducing such an instance and giving such an open way even to introduce a fourth instance, the government of such amendments did not table itself, and the colleague and I decided to table amendments, and some of them needed to be made only editorially. I would only like to take the floor here and point out that these amendments have also been discussed on the Internal Policy Committee and received support, with the exception of the amendment to Article 12, which was subsequently tabled, and the Internal Policy Committee has not spoken on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I don't know, Mr. Lavrinc, did you raise your hand? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u95	As chairman of the committee, I have to protect the workers who prepared this. Amendments that have not been recorded - so I will be able to say separately that the Committee supports them - were not properly tabled, were not tabled in Lotus Notees, which is why this could not be prepared as necessary. For the second time, of course, I call on all the right-holders of the amendments to do so, and then there will be no dilemma and discussions on this. The fact is, the first amendment to Mrs. Mag. Majde Potrat and Danice Simšič supported the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No one else. Yes, please, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am being asked a question in this amendment by Mrs POTATE's Members, and Simsicev's question is because he really would just like the government's answer. On the contrary, if I am reading the amendment to Article 2 and then to Article 18, I think that Mrs Potrata has already said that a third or additional piece of the possible appeal of the asylum seeker is being introduced, this is the Supreme Court. And if I understand that exactly, that also means extending the possible deadline for the final decision. In fact, such a decision would make great sense for the Government to give its opinion on this amendment, as well as its amendment to Article 18, because it is likely that the adoption of such an amendment will have a reasonable impact.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Excuse me, is there anything else you wanted to say? Thank you. Before the Minister answers, we have two other debaters, Mr Vukko and Mr Lavrinc. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members. Given that I am the first to be signed by the Group of Members, which we have substantively supported this solution, which the Committee has now also supported with the support of the amendment of colleagues of Potrat and Simšič, I would like to give my thoughts on this and, in some way, try to respond to Mr Rokavac somehow. The efforts, the intention of the proposer, have, of course, been clear from the start. However, I would say that the objective does not always justify the means and the way to do so. However we would like to legalise a two-step decision in the asylum process in this National Assembly, the legal order already in force in this country, of course, obliges us to pay attention to that. And there are many who doubt that this solution would be constitutionally incontrovertible because the Constitution gives the right to appeal in article 25, including against any judgment, the decision of the court. If we have written down in the Asylum Act that the appeal is decided by an administrative court and, in accordance with the law, the administrative dispute is decided by law, except as provided in the law, unless otherwise provided for by the law on asylum, it means that the decision or judgment of the court of first instance is, according to the administrative court, we cannot talk about the finality of this judgment, but we are talking about jurisdiction. Notwithstanding the fact that, in this case, it has tried to find a solution in the direction of a two-step decision, that it has been stated that the appeal against the decision or judgment of the administrative court does not suspend enforcement, I think that the possible judgment in the Constitutional Court would have shown once again that this cannot be the case. That is why, of course, I fully support the amendments relating to the amendment to Article 2, and I believe that we are dealing with specific parties here; we are not based on the fact that all these asylum seekers are also potential, I don't know, criminals, these are personal hardships for people. And last but not least, the argument of the economic and rationality of the procedure is, of course, in the data that six persons have come before the Supreme Court by June this year, we are talking about a small proportion in relation to all those who have illegally or in any way crossed the border, or according to the data that the Minister has given today, according to those asylum seekers, and these were 1,050. Once again, I stress that the amendments are appropriate and, above all, advocate legality in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u101	First of all, there is no dilemma: a two-step or three-step procedure - it is not true. It's always a three-step procedure, it's only about whether the third degree has a suspension effect or not -- that's the first -- and not "blossing" here about these things, because there's nothing to "blossom"; that's the second. The second is that it is a matter of how long the asylum-seeker is with asylum-seeking status. The government simply suggested that, for the first time that the request was made, the Ministry decided to do so at the second stage, and then it was no longer the case. However, some felt that it was necessary - even after the action was brought before the Supreme Court, and that was also the decision of the committee - to say so. In doing so, however, it is neglected that what binds us is a resolution of the Council of Europe. [[R-81-16, 1981]] in Article 4, the Council of the European Union resolution of 20 June 1995 is consumed in what the Government proposes. This is; if we go any further, and if we accept what is offered and what is supported by the committee, we will go only further, even richer. However, there is nowhere to write, respected colleagues and colleagues, that because of the fact that there will be more degree of legal certainty for these applicants. As our courts do, it is not necessary to stress that we have dealt with them here many times. So something I would like to add to it, but it has always been neglected that in administrative proceedings it is also in a case of a negative decision by the administrative court, and this is a court, it is not a body, I do not know which can decide in any way, but the expert body, with the support of experts - is obliged, of course, to work under the law on administrative dispute - that this authority can decide also in the case, so if someone considers that the decision of the administrative court to that extent would violate his right to be in danger of being able to apply for provisional orders at that time. So this is an additional option, and this remains a transaction. So, I'm going to say, here's a little bit too much "uplifting," I don't think that's necessary. The dilemma was only around the use of the terms "completeness, jurisdiction" and so on, which was "Finality" was in some way misused because it is known to be in administrative proceedings. [[...]] I suggest we stop talking about the poor with some demagogos and so on. It's normal for anyone who's forced for any reason, even if I don't know, just the family doesn't like leaving their country that he's poor. There's no discussion about that. And not here, I'll say, now on one side do someone "good guy" and the other is bad guy." In fact, it was more of a discussion about how long and how to settle this matter. I think that the Government's intention was good that it was also fair that the European Convention on Human Rights was also higher and higher than European standards and norms, even higher than the European Convention on Human Rights. If we've made a different decision, I don't think there's much to say about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would not like to repeat the committee's exercise on finality and jurisdiction. I ask the Minister, if he has anything else to add to it - it is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u103	Not much, actually. I would like to say that it is not really about the difference between a government and a committee supplement in two or three instances. In both cases, there are three instances. The Constitutional Court has committed us to this. The government also proposes three instances for this very reason of the Constitutional Court, but we propose a version that is a little more rational if I may use this grave term on these human relations. This is that, as has been said, the appeal to the Supreme Court does not hold back the decision, which in other words means that the decision of the second instance can be carried out, which means the removal of the alien and the continuation of the proceedings from the country in which it was removed. I would just like to add that this novel adds additional protection to the same alien who was not granted asylum if there were no conditions for it. This is the so-called special protection under the RETOURANT principle 'non retournant' for the one we must not return. However, it cannot be because return would constitute a threat to its integrity, a threat to its rights and so on in a country which has such status. In short, it is not a difference between two or three instances, it is the government's position that the suspension of a third instance would constitute an extension of the procedure - experience shows for an additional two months and, of course, additional costs as well. However, I must say that it may be interesting to note that there were six such complaints before the Supreme Court this year, so you know what dimension we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs. Danica Simšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In fact, I would just like to respond briefly to the temperamental debate of my fellow Member, Lavrinc. Since we also spent our teenage years together in Kamnik for many years, I understand his temperament. I would also like to say that I thank him for the very proper management of the committee's meeting, where he allowed us to discuss open issues, and I join him in calling for us to decide on these articles. Only with this addition may the cited European, of course, mean a minimum standard, but the matter of each individual country is after, whether it respects only the minimum standard or maintains the standard it has, or otherwise upgrades it. That is all that is and I agree to move on to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Can we conclude a debate on the amendments to Article 2? Thank you. The debate is closed. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 34 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 15.]] The first amendment has been adopted and the second amendment is therefore not up to date. We are still voting on the article in its entirety, i.e. on Article 2 in its entirety. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 45.4 votes. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] Article 2 is adopted. Now that the first amendment - this has already been said today - is connected with some other amendments, we will first vote on these because things are connected, and we will go straight ahead. Article 5 is first of all, the amendment under order number one, and we would vote first of all, because the debate is probably no longer necessary, it is just a technical vote, actually. So, please, we're at Article 5, the first amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 40 votes in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] Article 5 has been adopted and therefore we no longer vote on the Article in its entirety. Then I remind you of the amendment to Article 17. The amendment to Article 17 is also linked to the amendment that we have previously adopted, namely, we have two amendments, which are linked to the amendment under order number two. If you are paying attention, we are on page four, the amendment under number two is related to the amendment that we have previously accepted. So we only vote on the second amendment to Article 17. We're voting, please. Of the 62 votes in favour, 42 were against. 10 were against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 17 has been adopted. Furthermore, Article 18 is thus linked, the first amendment, which is the only amendment, "the article is completely changed by being read" as you can see here. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that we have adopted the amendment and thus the article has been completely amended. We're at the 20th. The related Article is also Article 20, the first amendment. So, for an easier orientation, we are on page 5, article 20, the first amendment is now in this chain of articles that are related. We vote on the first amendment to Article 20. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 46 votes in favour, four against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 20 has been adopted. We have another article, which is Article 25. We will vote on the amendment to the amendment of the Members of Parliament, mag. Majde Pótrate and Danice Simšič, article 25, on a special paper sheet. Can we still find each other? Do we need instructions? [[No, no, ……]] So we are voting on this related amendment, which is on a special paper sheet. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. Now we're going back to Article 9 on page 2. Did we find it? So here we have two amendments. Anyone want to discuss these two amendments? By the way, they're shutting down, as you can see. [[No one wants to discuss it.]] If we take the first one, the second one is irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment to Article 9 under order number 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 50 votes in favour, three against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted; this makes the second amendment irrelevant. As the Article is deleted, there is no need to vote on Article 9. We have an amendment at the 10th. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 10. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 48 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 10th Article as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 43 votes in favour and 2 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Article 10 is adopted. We have an amendment under Article 12. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 12. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 12 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 44 votes in favour, 5 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] Article 12 is adopted. We're at Article 13. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u107	I'm sorry. I should have intervened in that. Indeed, it is proposed that some rationalisation proposed by the government be abolished. This is about translating asylum seekers. We have proposed to value these procedures in order to translate only a sentence and a brief summary of the explanation of the decision, but not the full text of the decision. Indeed, this decision is based on the provision of protection for asylum seekers in other ways. In fact, he has the right to a legal adviser, he has the right to an interpreter and is thus given the opportunity to present this content to him in full. It seemed useful to us, however, to go with this change, which is also common enough in other countries. So I must express my opposition to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. In the case of a proposal drawn up by the Government, and in support of an amendment to Article 13, which complements Article 32, two infringements resulting from a reduction of costs, which was the initial intention of the Government, would nevertheless be dealt with, even though we are looking at an explanation. But in doing so, we would face a violation, in fact a violation of a constitution that says that we are all equal before the law, regardless of our orientation and even language. However, the proposed solution would in some way limit the rights of appeal to applicants or applicants, since they would not be fully aware of the sentence after all, because it would only be summarised in a reduced form. In this way, one of the fundamental principles of administrative procedure would not be ensured. Of course, interpreters or translators in the existing 32 - not - in - law are assured and not necessarily in practice. [[...]] But if the applicant did not have all the decisions in his own language, he would in some way be in a discriminatory or disadvantaged position. I also believe that the saying itself already embraces the essential characteristics or essential provisions of the writing that such increases in costs would not be so great for this country, but would defend or defend fully human rights and equality against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Now I don't know if you've raised your hand or if it's just a recreational matter. Mr. Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u111	I don't know if I'm going to achieve anything, but I wasn't happy with previous solutions. And the government's proposal, which was, was closer to how to solve these asylum cases in a simpler way. But I speak because Mr Minister knows well that I am one of those - or probably - rare among you, who has these stories and the problems involved, experienced the most problematic way of not using other terms. Indeed, we can easily vote on some solutions so that, of course, all the principles of human rights will be satisfied. Don't get me wrong, I'm talking about treating these people in as many human ways as possible and not getting any more wrong with us who are already comfortable where they came from. However, I have only followed in these events the role of the Minister himself, and now I do not care which one is and where it comes from. When these people need to be confined to the movement to be directed to where they belong, to set them up, to care for them, and to conduct procedures. At the same time, we experienced a story in the country of Slovenia where all possible groups were organized that opposed every refugee settlement and this problem was probably among the most present. And now in these procedures, to bring the matter here, where we are, to go and translate the complete documents into their language; no offense when many of them do not read or understand the document at all. And it is more important that someone - the one who cares for them - translates the matter into a meaningful explanation. I think they're summaries, too. And it is closer to that matter than to make the procedures that we have already somewhat delayed by the solutions that we have voted before more complicated by translating the complete documents. It's about decisions. I don't think this is a good solution and let's think about it. Of course, it is easy to vote when you are not directly affected by these events, either responsible or otherwise living among these problems, and the story seems somewhat different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u113	Just for a little while. However, I would suggest that you trust the government's opinion that at this point it has not infringed on the principle of equality before the law and that this principle is also protected for asylum seekers and that you trust the view that the costs associated with the translation of several hundred of these decisions in the procedures that arise daily are, however, such that they have to be limited in some way. And if we limit the translations only to the texts of the sentence and the explanations, we also provide the translator and the legal adviser, I think that all the rights in the procedure are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Can we discuss this amendment? [[Yes, you can.]] We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 13. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 20 votes in favour, 36 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are therefore voting on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 13 has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lavrinc's hope that we will be finished today has not come to the ears of God, let alone the sent ones, so tomorrow we continue at 10 a.m. Are we going to continue the session tomorrow, Procedural? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we continue our work and conclude this meeting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u116	This is a procedural proposal, we are not discussing it, but we are only voting. So, Mr Horvath's procedural proposal is that we conclude today. We are voting on this procedural proposal. Of the 62 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. We move on to the 14th article, where we have one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 14. Let's vote, please. Looks like it's a contagion problem. Please again let's find out we can go to the vote, another time. [[...]] Let's vote! Of the 50 present, 40 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 14 has been adopted. We vote on Article 14 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 49 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 14 has been adopted. We are in Article 17, and we have only one amendment here, because we have accepted the other before. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we conclude the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 17? Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 47 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 17 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 42 members and Members voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 17 has been adopted. Article 18 has already been processed, so we are now in Article 19. There are two amendments. Mrs. Danica Simšič wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In line with the debate on the working body, I would like to draw attention to the text of the amendment under point 1. I think there may have been some awkwardness at the speed of recording. I ask whether an editorial amendment is possible in this sense to correct the text as follows: A new second paragraph is added, which reads: In the second paragraph, the word "third" is added instead of "or" "and the heel", and in the end the dot is deleted and the text is added: instead of the word "in" "or he left his asylum home." Everything else remains unchanged. It was probably only because the debate was rather long, partly unclear. But it's not supposed to be cumulative, but one or the other option makes it possible. I do, however, because I have noticed this now during the review of the amendments, including the amendment written on hand, if necessary and I can also file it, given that we are in a fast process. So I'm essentially asking, is it possible to take this as an editorial or does it need an amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Based on current practice and because there are actually differences between the words "in" and "or" as well as "in" 'or', in fact, a substantive change can be made. I don't see the board president here right now. The rapporteur on this matter, Mrs. Potrata, is here. Maybe he can help us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u119	The debate on the Committee was in this sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u120	I'm sorry, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u121	The debate on the committee was such and they were against cumulation, but we pronounced ourselves a link "or" in this place, which is now not recorded in the editorial.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you. I ask the members of the committee, do they object to what the rapporteur said? I don't see any objection, and I think it's an editorial correction. So, a mistake was made in making this text. Thank you for that warning. To be perfectly clear, I repeat this revised text. "In the second paragraph, the word 'third' shall be added to the word 'and fifth' and at the end the point shall be deleted and the words 'or he has left the asylum home or its exhibitions for more than three days' shall be added." Is that right now? [[Yes, it ……]] Okay, thanks. We have thus clarified the text, in fact, as the subject of debate and decision-making. Anyone else want a word on these two amendments? [[Nobody.]] However, as you can see from the text, they exclude themselves if the first one is adopted, and the second one is out of the question. There's no more debate. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 19. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 46 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and thus, of course, a meaningless amendment under order number two. We still vote on Article 19 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 19 is said to have been adopted. We are in Article 20, where the first amendment has already been adopted, the second amendment has been withdrawn and we are voting only on Article 20 as a whole. So we are voting on the 20th Article as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 45 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 20 is hereby adopted. We're at the 21st. So, new 21st paragraph, one amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to the new Article 21.a. We're voting. Of the 55 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted and thus new Article 21a. At Article 25, we have already adopted the first amendment. We're gonna have to clear something up. I apologize for this brief interruption. So, we're at Article 25. Before we decided on one amendment, now we have two left. So first, I'm putting both of you here on pages 6 and 7. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] Good. We vote first on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 25. Let's vote, please! If the first one is adopted, the second one will be irrelevant, as stated in the commentary. Of the 52 present, 41 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. The other one is irrelevant. We still have a full vote on Article 25. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 43 votes in favour and 2 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 25 is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Would anyone like to discuss articles to which no amendments have been tabled? [[Nobody.]] Can we therefore vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled? Let's vote! Of the 56 present, 50 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we vote on the title of the law? [[Yes, you can.]] Let's vote on the title of the law, please! Of the 55 present, 48 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the following Articles were adopted to the draft law at second reading: 2, 5, 9, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21.a, 25. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. I don't see anyone who would like to make an amendment to that article. I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Not at all. There were no amendments. There was no debate on these things. The question of coherence - coordinated. So there are no reasons not to go to the full vote on the law. We are therefore voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 48 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And I'm closing this agenda. We're back on six. Period. The Secretary of State is here. The amendment to the amendment was given - or, excuse me, material. I thank the representatives of the government for the previous item. We remained on third reading, when calling on qualified applicants to table an amendment. And now we have this amendment. Before we go to the debate on the amendment, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill as a whole? It is a proposal for a law amending the law on the use of the funds obtained from the purchase on the basis of the Law on the Property Transformation of Enterprises, so that there is no mistake. No one wants to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to the proposed amendment. This is the amendment that we talked about earlier and where there was a little complication around the procedure, if you remember. These amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia and are on the table. Anyone want a word on this amendment? [[Nobody.]] Neither does the government. I am closing the debate on this amendment and moving on to a decision. So this is an amendment to Article 3, one amendment to the third reading. Let's vote. Of the 58 present, 35 votes in favour, 18 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to the issue of coherence. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u123	From the point of view of the secretariat, I would say that we do not actually see any technical inconsistencies due to this amendment. In the second reading, we have noted certain substantive concerns that we have regarding cumulation, the basic arrangements for loans, the second paragraph which is an exception, and the third paragraph, unless the government sees problems in implementation, we do not determine the legal reasons for non-compliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. So, I understood that from the point of view of the nomotechnics, and so on, there are no inconsistencies; but if there are inconsistencies in the implementation, it will soon show itself. If that is the case, we can move on to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 47 votes in favour, 7 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. However, we also have an additional decision that you have on the back of the report, on page 5 of the report of the working body. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Ladies and gentlemen, please, if you can be a little more careful that there will be no misunderstandings. So, I would like to draw your attention to the additional report at point 6. We have an additional conclusion on the back - I wouldn't read it because it's written. Does anyone want to discuss this additional decision? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on an additional decision. We're voting. Of the 58 present, 53 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. But we have another additional conclusion. This is an additional decision resulting from the report. Mrs Maria Possonec is signed under this additional decision. This is the National Community Commission. This Decision is addressed to the fourth page of the draft law of 24.7. Did you find this? Anyone wants to discuss this additional decision [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to a vote on the second additional decision signed by Mrs Maria Pozsonec, President of the Commission. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 41 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item. I'm moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DENOUNCEMENT LAW, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We have just been joined by a government representative, Mr Jenull, and I welcome him. I'm asking if he wants a word on this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. The purpose of the law is to align Article 128 with the decision of the Constitutional Court and to bring it into line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. This explanation was very substantive. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u127	After the board's authorization, I'll be very brief. In particular, the Committee has considered the proposal for a law and considers that, given that it is a matter of consistency with the constitutional decision and that the terms which are in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, as the first amendments, should also be aligned and that it proposes to the national assembly that it adopts the law, as well as those amendments which have received support from the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please. Who wants a word? Am I right to see? [[Nobody.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports. I therefore limit further discussions to 5 minutes. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I will propose to the President of the National Assembly that we convene a meeting next time at 6 p.m. I'm kidding, of course. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the general debate and move on to a second reading - this is for discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 55 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.7.2001. We got those amendments. For easier orientation, there are quite a few on eight sides. We'll go as usual. I am putting to the debate the first amendment, the title of chapter nine, under order number one. It's the first amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate on this amendment and moving on to the vote on the amendment. The first article came out in the first place, we noticed. We're sorry for the mistake. So we are moving on to the vote on the first amendment to Article 1. Let's vote. Of the 56 present, 53 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 44 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 is hereby adopted. We're at Article 4, here's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I would like to explain the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to propose that the legacy of a person who has neither willful nor legitimate heirs should be transferred to the municipality and not to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as proposed. We base our amendment on the fact that the prisoner is more connected to the municipality where he was staying than to the country which represents an abstract concept and would at the same time represent an additional non-taxable source of funding for the municipality. Our amendment isn't as bad as it looks at first sight. It is true that the practice in other countries to become a legacy without the property of the State, but we need to know that in other countries they did not have social property and therefore we propose that they can take a step forward and transfer the legacy to the municipality, because we know that the country is a bad master, leaving legacy, real estate or the like to the detriment and loss of property. We feel that the congregation in this area could do more and also spend money on a variety of useful things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Who wants a word, please? Yes, Mr. Jenull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The Government of the amendment does not support the reason that the comparative regime is such that an inheritance without heirs belongs to the State because such an arrangement is already in judicial practice, since we do not have social property, and finally because of this, it is mainly an overburdened asset to which the heirs cancel, because it represents only the costs of further creditor proceedings and is also related to the administration of that property in essence only at certain costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No one else. Then I conclude the debate. Before voting, I would like to point out that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 1 and 2, 23, 37 and 46. If this amendment is not adopted, of course all these articles are irrelevant. All clear? We can move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 4 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We're at Article 5. In addition to the amendment we have in the review of the amendments, I would like to draw your attention to another amendment, which is in additional form on a special paper sheet; the proposal is a group of Members with a first-signed Mr Vukko. We have two amendments here, not one. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendments to Article 5. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 45 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 5 on a special paper sheet, which will be understood as an amendment under order number 2 to Article 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour, 9 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 42 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. We're at Article 8. Who wants a word? Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Our Group proposes that the words 'for charity and other humanitarian purposes' be added 'faithful' so that they can be explicitly known for religious purposes too, because we know that this is also in the countries of the European Union and if we want to compare ourselves with them, then I think it would not be too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u135	I am surprised by this amendment to add the word 'faith' because it would mean that religious purposes do not belong to charity and other philanthropic purposes. It is said that religious is something that is neither charitable nor humanitarian, and in fact the opposite effect has been achieved as you would like to achieve it. That's why I think this amendment has good intentions, but it's a very bad seizure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u136	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 15 votes in favour and 40 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote! Of the 49 present, 45 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We're under new Article 8a. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to the new Article 8a. Let's vote! Of the 50 present, 47 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus a new Article 8a. We're at the new 20.a. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment for the new 20th Article. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 54 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since this is the new Article 20a, there is no need to vote on the Article. We're at the 21st. I'm opening a debate. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 21. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 51 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 21st full. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present there were 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 21 has been adopted. We're at the 23rd. Both amendments are irrelevant. This is what we have done with the previous vote. This is the only way to vote on Article 23 in its entirety. There is no more debate because there are no more amendments. So, we are only voting full on Article 23. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 46.2 votes. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The Article has been adopted. We're at the new 23rd. Who wants a word? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I oppose the amendment proposed by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Wolf. It was already explained in the introduction that the amendments resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court were made. In this case, there are substantial substantive changes to the law on succession. It is just that we now have an arrangement that the legal heir can cancel his inheritance in his own name and also in the name of his heirs. This amendment points out that in the future, he could only give up in his own name and not in the name of his heirs. This is an essential substantive change and it is wrong to accept it just before parliamentary holidays, so quickly without having any adequate comparisons of what other countries have in place, especially if we have before us the fact that such an arrangement would also mean a new large dispersion of ownership and also problems in legacy procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I owe you one warning. Here we have on the fourth page of the amendment under order number one: Add a new article 23a, which reads, etc. [[...]] Then we have another article 23a on the special paper, including the amendment under order number one - this is proposed by Mr Vukko and the other signatories. The current debate is about this. So much so that it's clear. It's the rush that causes such a delay. Please, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u139	My friend Terchon has gone too fast. I wanted, given that the Committee has been exposed to the proposal of Professor Karl Zupančič that this Article 133, second and third paragraphs have been subject to criticism for many years and it has therefore been agreed to try to table an amendment and to align with the government. Given that the Government is preparing radical amendments to the law on succession and that this is an important substantive amendment to the law, I am withdrawing the proposed amendment on behalf of the signatories.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you. Then we were left with a new article 23rd on page 4 of the amendment review. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment for the new 23rd Article in this amendment review. Let's vote. Of the 58 present, 53 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is no need to discuss the article anymore. We're moving on to the new 31st. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. Let's vote. Of the 60 present, 53 members and Members voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The new Article 31st is hereby adopted. We're at Article 32. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote. Of the 53 present, 49 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We shall vote in full on Article 32. Of the 54 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Article 32 is hereby adopted. We're at Article 35, here's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We are closing the debate and going to the vote on the only amendment to Article 35. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 51 were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The amendment has been adopted and thus the full text of Article 35. We're on page six at Article 37. The first amendment is irrelevant. All we have left is another amendment. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment and Article 37. Of the 56 present, 50 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 37 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 50 were voted against, one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 37 has been adopted. Before we go to Article 46, I would like to draw your attention to this piece of paper, Article 40. Retreat? [[Yeah.]] The amendment's been withdrawn. Thank you. We're at Article 46. Here we have one amendment, which is irrelevant, so we can only vote on Article 46 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 52 present, 43 voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that Article 46 has been adopted. Article 47 shall have one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote. Of the 51 present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 47 as a whole. Let's vote. There's something wrong with being here. We can, please, repeat the vote on Article 47 in full. Secondly, we vote on Article 47 as a whole. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 55 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 47 has been adopted. We're at the 48th and one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 48. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 51 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 48 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 54 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 48 has been adopted. We're at the 50th and one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We can go to the vote. We are voting on the amendment to Article 50. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 52 voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 50 as a whole, please. Let's vote, please! Article 55 as a whole. Of the 55 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. And then there's the 51st. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 51 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. As it is deleted, there is no need for a vote. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Therefore, we can vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Of the 55 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We move to a vote on the title of the law. Let's vote! Of the 56 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the next article have been adopted to the draft law in the second reading. 1st, 5th, 8th, 20th, 21st, 23rd, 31st, 32nd, 35th, 37th, 47th, 48th, 50th and 51st. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Does anyone wish to make an amendment to that article? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] Consistency? Okay. Now we can only vote on the whole law. Let's vote, please! Of the 59 present, 53 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The law is fully adopted. We have an additional conclusion. You will find him on the back of the committee report. So I would like to draw your attention to an additional decision. Ladies and gentlemen, a little more attention! Does anyone wish to discuss the additional decision proposed by the parental committee? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on an additional decision and move on to a decision on an additional decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 45 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] With this we have adopted an additional decision and I conclude this item on the agenda and invite the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u141	[[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Dear fellows and fellows! [[...]] With you, I come from a silent assumption that it is not forbidden to commend the National Assembly. That's what we're gonna do tomorrow with a message about what was done. I think we're gonna do a good job. Today, colleagues and colleagues who are members of the Foreign Policy Committee are still waiting for hard work, and we have also withdrawn our National Assembly today over the expected time. So allow me today, at the end of the spring session, to express my gratitude to the professional services for helping us with our work. At the same time, I hope, even though we have worked hard and responsiblely that no one in this work has burned. But I invite you to return to the fall bench burning. So I want you and your families to rest on vacation. Before we say goodbye and conclude our final spring session, I invite you to the lobby of the great avela to toast our work so far. Please, thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-25-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. It's not over yet. It's another announcement. I'm sorry. The meeting is thus officially concluded and another notification is given here: Dear members and members of the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, I inform them that they will attend tomorrow, 26.7.2001, at 4: 00 p.m. in the large lounge of the regional director of the World Health Organisation for Europe, Dr Mark Dancom. The interview will take place by 5.30 p.m. I'm asking for a safe participation. President of the Committee Stanislav Brenčič. Thank you.
