ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u1	The Members of Parliament who are at the meeting of Kviaz at this time politely asked that they start with a 10-minute delay. So I'll let you know that we'll start the meeting at 10:15. Thank you very much. Fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogomir Vnučec, Victory Jelinčič, Branko Janc, Andrej Fabjan for the beginning of the session, Maria Possonec, Ferry Horvat, Branko Kelemina, Franc Čebulj and Alojz Peterle. Please note the presence in the hall, of course - by inserting cards. 62 Members and Members are present; so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very much. Today's follow-up to the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of agenda item 11, the second and third reading of the proposal for a law on specific measures for the control of shops at road border crossings. The assembly will then move on to the 12th item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, and then on the agenda. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on special supervisory measures for sale at border crossing points. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The first hearing was held by the assembly at the third extraordinary meeting of the assembly and decided that the second and third reading of the draft law would take place at the first meeting of January. This is how we move to a second reading, namely to debate and to decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal that I have put forward. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 30.1.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and an amendment to Article 1. The proposer of this amendment is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; the parent working body of the amendment supports Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm putting an amendment to Article 1. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the vote Article 1 in full. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, and I apologize for the adoption of Article 1. I am putting two amendments to Article 2. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The amendment's government doesn't object. The second amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the proposed second amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? I'm sorry, just an explanation. That amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the Government for new Articles 12a and 12b, 13a and 13a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. I shall put to the vote the first amendment to Article 2. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 2. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 2 has been adopted. We are going to vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to Article 6. The proposer is a group of Members with the first signed Ivan Bozič. The Government of the Amendment opposes, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision-making and vote on the amendment to Article 6. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making, I apologize, we must also vote on Article 6. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that Article 6 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 9. The proposed amendment is supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 9 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on Article 9 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 9 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 10, whose proposer is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the government supports the proposed amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. We are voting on the amendment to Article 10. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on Article 10 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that Article 10 has been adopted. I am putting amendments to the debate for the new articles, for the new paragraphs 10a and 10.b, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proponent. The parent working body does not support it, with the note: "If the amendment is adopted, the amendments of the group of Members with the first signed Ivan Christmas for the new 10.a, 10.b, 10.c and 10.d paragraphs are irrelevant." The following review is also a new 10th article, whose proposer is a group of Members with first-signed Ivan Bozič; the government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body supports it. Under 2 is the amendment for the new 10th article, of which Pavel Rupar, the Government opposes him, the parent working body does not support him, with the note: "If the amendment is adopted, it must be renumbered if the amendment of the Government for the new 10th and 10th articles or amendments of the group of Members with the first signed John Christmas for the new 10th, 10th, 10th and 10th paragraphs is to be adopted. Furthermore, for a new 10.b article, whose proposal is a group of Members with the first-signed Ivan Bozič, the government opposes him, his mother's working body supports him; and for a new 10.c and 10.d articles, the proposer is a group of Members with the first-signed Ivan Bozic, the government opposes him, his mother's working body does not support him. I'm opening a debate in this part. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting to the vote the first amendment of which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The parent working body of this proposal does not support it. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the government's amendment for the new 10a and 10b articles has been adopted; this is why the consequences are to become meaningless amendments to the group of Members with the first signed Ivan Bozič for the new 10a, 10b, 10c and 10d articles, which means that we are voting only on the amendment to the new 10a article of the proposaler Paul Rupar, which is opposed by the government and the mother's working body. We vote on this amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment by the motioner Paul Rupar is not adopted. We are moving on to the debate on amendments for new paragraphs 12a and 12.b. Under 1 we have an amendment to the Government's amendment to the new 12th article, proposed by Sašo Peca, with the note: "The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same motion for the amendment of the government to the new 12th and the amendments to the amendment of the government to the 13th article; if the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party to the amendment of the government to the new 12th and 12th paragraphs is irrelevant." Under 2 we have an amendment to the government's amendment to the new 12.b Article, of which Saša Peca is also the proposer, with a note under this amendment that it is substantively linked to the amendment of the same amendment to the government's amendment to the new Article 12a, and amendments to the amendment of the government to Article 13. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party to the Government's amendment to the new 12.a and 12.b is irrelevant. Under 3 we have an amendment to the Government's amendment to the new 12th and 12th articles, of which the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia is a candidate, under the note that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 13th and the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 13.a. Under 4, we have an amendment to the government's amendment to the new 12th and 12th paragraphs, the drafter of which is the SNS Group of Members. The amendment's government opposes, the parent's working body doesn't support it. This amendment is irrelevant and is also referred to below as the 5th amendment of the proposal of the group of Members with the first signed Ivan Bozič, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew its amendment to the new 12th and 12th paragraphs of 14.12.2001 and proposed a new amendment for the new 12th and 12th paragraphs. So we're not voting on the amendments under 4 and under 5. Under 6 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the amendment in question supports the mother labour, noting that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Government to Article 2 and to the amendment of the Government to Article 13 and Article 13a. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The studies commissioned by the government, the studies on the field of free-of-carry shops, the mercenary of which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the element in our society that clearly seeks to cause so many and so many unemployed in this country. All these studies clearly point to the need and are necessary after closure and there will be no economic and social negative impact. Even more, even to the minister sitting with us today, it seems self-evident that the government is not obliged, let's say, to come to the aid of those people who lose their jobs because of your actions, directly or indirectly, to those regions that will be deprived of their jobs in one way or another. In its process, when the European Union decided to close free-of-carry shops in its internal policy, it had dedicated 8 years to this restructuring period. We Slovenians spend a few months on our own labor force for restructuring. And we're supposed to go to Europe equally. Who's gonna take us there seriously? In short, with the government worth and all those you support in these points, you simply bow to foreigners, at the expense of your own workforce, and thereby create additional unemployment in our country. The procedures that have led us to stand here today and to discuss the closure of free-carrying shops are a large part of the result of the operation of one single foreign minister, who also made this promise through all legal channels. In short, on your hand, your wish, and the question is, what was behind it? In the Slovenian National Party, as you know, we are opposed to closing, so we will try, if not otherwise, to extend with amendments at least the transformation, as you call it professionally. To extend to that period for which some other European countries have also decided to extend the deadline if I put the Czech Republic, which is approximately the same status as Slovenia. Only we are rushing into this foolish work proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Czechs have decided to carry out the matter by the end of 2003, and all of my amendments, which I will only explain once, are intended to do so because they are essentially all bound in the same way, so on time, only the dates change. In doing so, I am trying to achieve that in order to allow trade, which, of course, in the last time you ordered paid studies, has become so hateful, premature closure. But let me remind you here that there are many consultations, both by economic operators in this country and by representatives of local communities, all interested public and all those who thought it was worth their time to attend these consultations, has proved that this move by the government is clearly bad. That this step of government is unnecessary and that it will bring harm to us, our own or our own country. I suggest you support the amendments I tabled. This will give us an opportunity, if not otherwise, if we do not close free-carrying shops at the moment which would be normal, so when we enter the EU, if we will ever, at least extend their deadline, allow them to adjust normally to the changes that the government demands from them to the Republic of Slovenia, with the minister in charge. There is no doubt that the law will be passed. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the law will be adopted in a form that does not carry in its content those measures that would be welcome to actual traders and to actual employees of people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am afraid that we will adopt a law that only Europe and some ministers will like. In short, I fear that all of you who vote against the proposal will forget that you are representatives of the Slovenian people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Many things have already been said by Mr Pece, and on behalf of the Young Slovenia Party, I will only tell a few more facts. I would point out in fact that Slovenia's desire to join the European Union is unequivocal and also our customers. That wish is similar. However, the facts described in Damjana and Kopatina's analysis also point to the problem of employment itself and also to the problem of effects on public finances. The impact on public finances will be positive if 75% of today's sales volume remains. This is impossible in such a short period of time, because companies need to redefine fundamental, developmental and ongoing policies. At the same time, I stress once again the problem of employees whose percentage would fall by 37%. That is why we have also tabled these amendments as a possible compromise proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. As we discuss the date of the closure of duty-free trades, I would like to ask Minister Bavčar if he can confirm what I have, I think, heard on the radio today and what Mr Peca already said that the Czech Republic has extended the deadline of closed duty-free trade to 2003. And if that is true, I would ask him if he could confirm that insistence on shutting down duty-free trade immediately is the result of poor negotiation, reckless promises, harmful conduct and harmful promises. I would ask him to tell me exactly where the reason is that only Slovenia is receiving some special treatment. Are we Slovenians in any way brown? I'm asking him to excite the cause. If this is merely because the promise has been made recklessly, can it tell whether they will also be within the party in which such unreasonable conduct has occurred, the harmful conduct, the manner in which they act, the political responsibility. In fact, we are constantly faced with the fact that Slovenia is facing some special conditions. At the same time, these same negotiators, these same people, are somehow misleading the public in what a good position Slovenia is. To our taxpayers who are with this money, we must clearly tell them who is taking their money out of their pocket. And say this here clearly, who in this case took considerable sums of money from their pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Bavcar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! You could say that we have finally come into a situation where it is a little more reasonable to talk about these issues. The theme has been following us since the ratification of the Association Agreement. Those of you who have been in previous parliamentary references will recall that the Association Agreement has been ratified by a joint declaration at the time of the 94th Article, which spoke of the entry into force of the customs union clause which opposed the existence of free-of-carry shops at road crossings. This together with Annex 13 was a condition for ratification or initial initial initial initialisation of the Association Agreement and later ratification. And as long as our dialogue with the European Union concerned the implementation of the Association Agreement, our argument in this area was valid for this joint declaration and its interpretation of what this declaration really means. While other countries are faced with different conditions and other clauses that are specifically dictated by certain practices that Slovenia is not exposed to, the issue of free-carrying shops is a matter of relaxation, as you know, trade or real estate transport, because it has been subject to even a change in our Constitution, a condition that our country has fulfilled in this dialogue. I am not saying that the moment we joined the first group of Luxembourg candidates, this chapter or this problem became the subject of negotiations, chapter 10 on taxes and chapter 25 on customs union. Both chapters are being blocked at the moment due to the failure to comply with this Slovenian commitment. At the moment that I took up the role or role of the Minister for European Affairs three and a half years ago, and aware of the problem of addressing this issue at home, in the domestic political community, aware of the economic impact and the importance of these companies, I have decided to take a closer look at the studies that can identify the specific situation of these free-customs shops and what it really means, economically, for these companies and for the country, if we adopt the law as proposed and before you today. If I am completely honest, then I could say that I expected this study to give sufficient arguments for me to be able to make a promise given to me twice as Chair of the European Union Association Committee, by my European Union interlocutors, that if we reshape these stores, we could also apply the necessary assistance from the European Union to mitigate the economic consequences. The purpose and expected results of the study, at least our expectations were at first, was to essentially strengthen our country's arguments that, in dialogue with the European Union, we could actually apply our intention to provide this money also from the European Union's financial assistance. The study has shown quite the contrary that it is in our economic interest to abolish this tax privilege. The study, which was publicly available by a reputable institution reviewed by the Legal Institute or the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law and at the time, its then chairman, Dr Jože Mencinger, also showed in the review that its key findings were correct - that the net financial impact on the State budget was therefore positive. And let me tell Mr Jerovsk that when we abolish this financial and tax privilege, we are returning this money and not taking it out of the pockets of taxpayers. I think it is both extremely important when we decide at this point what and how to deal with this issue - on the one hand, blocking our negotiations, on the other hand, the net financial impact, which is positive. Even though I see, ladies and gentlemen, that some of you are giggling with your head, let me tell you that in fact all the arguments that have gone from being literally an economic disaster at the border to finally having a dialogue and today, unlike the one that happened a year ago, are talking about months and not more about whether or not the owners of these free-customs shops are weak. I can't believe the representative of their section on the one hand says, "Give us time by the end of the year and we don't need the country," but he also says, "if we redesign these stores by 31 May 2001, that means disaster for our company." This simply does not hold up the basic elemental economic judgment. Mr Peče talks about the fact that the government doesn't care what can happen if, as a real study, at a certain part of the retention of this traffic - and owners know that this traffic can be held back, and owners know that the transformation into a 'value travel shop', which has also been done by European airports, the rest have closed down substantially earlier, accurately proves economic viability and their business forward; and owners know that there is very little likelihood that a large case of unemployment would occur in this area. In this case, too, if this were to happen, especially under existing legislation, we are proposing mechanisms to mitigate these employment implications in the area of regional policy. Let me finally say something about the Czech Republic. In fact, the Czech Parliament has adopted a law that is not in force because it has to be approved by the Senate and confirmed by the President of the Czech Republic, who says or extends the period of conversion of free-of-carry shops at the Czech border crossing points by the end of 2003. The Minister of Finance of Mertlik strongly opposed this law, called on the Senate not to accept it, and urged the President of the State not to accept it, with one argument that this would harm the Czech Republic in joining the European Union, that this was contrary to the promises made by the Czech Republic in the negotiation process, and therefore it is not true that this is completely irrelevant to the negotiations of the Czech Republic with its EU accession. I find it difficult to assess the specific situation in the Czech Parliament, it is difficult to assess the relationship between the ruling party and the opposition party that has proposed - at the same time, I will say, in a specific contractual relationship with the ruling party - who has proposed this extension. I do not like to comment on negotiations in other candidate countries, where they have their own concerns, which make them decide on individual actions. However, I know, and this completely sovereign as a person responsible for this area in the Slovenian Government, I say that the amendments proposed to extend the deadline proposed by the Government would seriously damage the credibility of our country, seriously harm our country's EU accession negotiations, and, on the other hand, in my firm opinion, in the current financial situation, in the Slovenian budget, I will also say to the public financial image or public finances of the Slovenian State. So the government opposes these amendments. It considers it necessary to adopt the amendments proposed to this Article. Please take these arguments into account in your decision-making, honourable Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek applied first. Here you go. It doesn't matter. I think everyone will have a chance to say their own. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Although the Minister did not answer me in an exact manner, as I asked him, whether it was harmful or not, it was a very long one, and he also cited some arguments that should have been made in favour of closing it. I agree with that old saying, the Roman "pacta sunt servanda" or promises and treaties must be respected. This is why we are all in a very difficult situation. However, allow me to say that, Mr Minister, you also said that you do not understand the Czechs in some way, that you do not like to comment, but that they do not respect the promises made by the EU. But I wonder if I am allowed, see if you believe that promises should only be respected in relation to Europe. What if we also had intergovernmental respect for them? You, Mr. Minister, have made a promise on Kviaz that your client, the LDS, agrees that the opposition has a majority in the supervisory commissions. Now your client and part [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It's denied. [[...]] Would it not be useful to make promises here that are still so fresh to keep? Then let's be consistent, let's be principled. Only then will we be taken as a serious factor in Europe, and you will have a much better negotiating position if they know that you are also in principle. And that you're willing to keep your promises. It seems to me that today some continuation of this non-compliance has taken place. And then you served us that studies were done. [[We've read them ourselves.]] That actually this closure is useful for the country, and you mentioned a study by Dr. Jožet Mencinger. I'd be happy not to mention it. In fact, this institute or last name - see, Minister Rupel has recently been very gallant on the same author who wrote in Del that Slovenia has robbed Croatian savers, which he called unprofessional. The same man also mentioned that these human resources changes were revolutionary, former, Bajuk's governments. Your government's actions, which are even more revolutionary and purer than ever, remain silent. So I would ask for such references - in this recent period, because this is seen from some economic effects, there has been a lot of writing, which is probably not true. I only agree - once again I return to this - on the argument that the promises in the negotiations must be respected. That is why we are in a difficult situation, but undoubtedly to our own detriment. But we'll probably have to hold on to that if we're to be a little more credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u12	Madam President, when you shared the word when you were a little god, you said, everyone would be able to tell their story. No, it's not about my story, it's not about the story of an individual, it's about free-carrying stores tying up jobs, tying up the regional development of Slovenia, tying up those local communities where these free-caring zones physically stand. It's not about simple stories; if you take them like that, I'm sorry. But that wasn't my purpose. We have heard the Minister's presentation in his rather popular speech of arguments why it is not appropriate to support the proposals or amendments of the Slovenian National Party. He pointed out two in all of his, let's say, essay. For the first time that we will like Europe - we have been listening for quite some time; where this has brought us, we all see today - we are still here before the basic negotiations on European integration. And secondly, it is this or these studies, which we are talking about very much right now - and we must not forget that the government has ordered them, that they have been paid by the government and that the results are also the same to the government at this time - that these studies have shown that the effects of closing or reshaping free-customers are favourable to the state budget. These two arguments were cited by the Minister as an argument as to why to close free-of-customs shops. On the other hand, we are facing what is most valuable in our country: this is a job, a job that we are currently cutting off to many people in this country. Furthermore, also what I told the chairman earlier, a wide range of local communities in which the house is a free-carrying shop and, as a rule, these free-carrying shops are located in remote areas, where trade and centralisation of the Republic of Slovenia do not reach. In short, there are more arguments on this page. And the arguments on this side to support my amendment are, above all, human nature, that we will be able to build something in this country, and that is us, Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Petan, Mr Pece, only an explanation. The fact that everyone can tell their story didn't come out of my mouth, unfortunately sometimes a little after the Koroski curve, my words were "it doesn't matter". So much for an explanation. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! So today we're talking about the consequences of something, the consequences of a certain action, and it's probably somewhere else. Among other things, the fact that Parliament has obviously not been informed is also a factor. Because if Parliament were to be aware of everything that was necessary, it is likely that we would not be discussing these things today when we are talking, nor would we be asking questions as we ask them. But I have to admit, I've learned two new things and I'm a little surprised. I'm just saying a little bit because I partly agree with it, but the thing has to be taken a full look. In view of the claim that by ratifying the Association Agreement we have undertaken to close these shops, this is to some extent clear, but this is only one part of the truth and the other part is this, the date. And I do not recall that when we are adopted, when we ratify this Association Agreement, we would say that the PCP will be closed on 31 May 2001, or if you remember, before that, I think that at the end of June 2000, then on 31.12.2000. I don't remember that. This, however, is linked to the conscience that we have probably all heard today that the Czech Parliament, and apparently it does, has adopted a law to close 2003 at the end of 2003. That's what they say. Someone's been negotiating, one way or another. Or on a normal path or forced them to close down the PCPs substantially later than we do. That's supposed to have worked. And now we're back to that reason. And the other statement that surprised me a little bit, but only a little bit, is that the two chapters in the negotiations with the European Union are not yet, cannot be closed because we have not fulfilled the promise to close the duty-free shops. Here I believe that probably two chapters can give three, but that being three is not so important, I believe, but I always ask the basic question, who is now the one who has promised something and the parliament has not been informed. I think that such things should probably be brought to Parliament's attention. And of course, I am also now wondering whether, in view of the claims we hear from our government representatives, that we are Slovenians and, of course, Slovenia first in line to join the European Union, that we are the best, that we are even sample and similar, or because we are blindly promising something that we are not even required of us. Because the European Union did not require us to close, I don't know, in the middle of 2000 or 31 May 2001, but you are probably held to our word, as we have heard today. And now I'm really interested in what others are interested in. And who was the one who made this promise that we must stick to it now, because I also agree that promises should be fulfilled, stick to them, but who was that? Was it an individual or was it a government? When was that? How did she conclude? Was this at a government meeting, and is there a record of that? Is it possible that someone willfully did this, but apparently this has a great weight? This promise has weight and all of you are now calling on it to be fulfilled, and as we can see, there are consequences. We don't have two chapters closed and things like that. Who was that when it was? I think it is Parliament that has the right, and we have the right of parliamentarians to find out who it was and when this agreement was reached, which promised something that promised something at the expense of Slovenia. The consequences are the same as they are, and it would be time to pour pure wine, at least now, if this was not possible earlier or it was not wanted, consciously or otherwise. Mainly, now is the hour of truth, and I would agree with those who have already asked this question and I am asking it once again. Who and when was he? Was he an individual or an organ? That would be good to hear, because we are probably the parliamentarians who are most invited to ask for it and to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jakič, then Mr Barovic, Mrs Potrate and Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues! That's a nice greeting for me. I have to say, I've been thinking whether I should get involved in this discussion or not, for some reason, but nevertheless, let me say what you think about PCPs and their closure in person. The Committee on International Relations in the previous reference explicitly postponed my proposal until a study of the Faculty of Economics on the consequences of the closure of PCPs in Slovenia was carried out. The result of this study showed that, of course, the concerns of proponents of the existence of PCPs or the extension of these activities are unfounded. However, this study has definitely not shown that PCPs would be generators or carriers of regional development and, of course, I think it is pure demagogies to speak in this direction. Of course, there is a positive response as to whether Members and Members were aware of what lies ahead when we approach the European Union. This assembly has, of course, ratified an association agreement, which, of course, also gives rise to such details as the abolition of free-carrying shops in Slovenia, because, of course, this is one of those solutions on our way to the European Union. The question of the word that was given, one of the political parties also had the word 'true'. In fact, the word applies mainly in the European Union, and the international community, particularly the Western European community, has not long understood why even signatures in the Balkans are not respected and were unclear about certain peace agreements. In the international community, the word applies. And this promise has been made and, of course, it has to be absorbed as a fact. It's about public interest. In this country, in fact, sometimes because of our public interest, we do something that is probably not right from the individual’s perspective. Remember that when we discussed the road ring, the highways, there were quite a few cases of those people who were interested in the public interest, also because they had a bow in the negotiations with Darsa, the court reached into their private property through a long-term procedure and had them dispossessed of a land through which this highway went. And of course, if we weigh the public interest in the idea of joining and full membership in the EU and of course the requirements, especially those in the PCPs, then I must say that I personally consider it to be a greater public interest, that PCPs close so that we do not fail or that we will not block our own negotiations and reduce the possibility of joining the European Union. And lastly, to conclude, perhaps even a demagogue, I would like, of course, to see that ever professional lobbyists from humanitarian and social movements would lobby so strongly for those companies that do not have the money to pay for such services. I will, of course, vote against all amendments that in any way prolong the existence of PCPs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Two replicas, Mr. Pache and Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u18	The replica of a colleague Jakič, for the first time, when he talks about demagogism and he reads it to others. Comrade Jakič, you were talking about an association agreement. There's no talking in the association about the closure of free-carrying shops. All it says is that since 1.7.1998 they should not open a new one, and this is a big difference. And if you're using things, at least don't lie. And another issue, as the study says, is that of these studies, which we have mentioned several times today, but it should only be pointed out that the basis for producing this study was based on 200 samples that were visited at that time by a free-of-carry shop. So much for the credibility of this study, which, apparently today, liberal democracy, the moment of closing down free-customs stores, you will say transformations, the moment when we deliberately close jobs means so much to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I am pleased by Mr Jakič's performance, but I will only be at the part that he mentioned that the word applies in the international community and should be respected, he said, and the word was given. I agree with this, as I said, "pacta sunt sarvanda" this is not known since, but I have to do it again, why you are uncreditable in the internal political field, but here the word does not apply. Mr Bavčar, as I have already mentioned, on Kviaz he gave the floor that you will respect that he will have the majority - but you, as Mr Drobnic said today, fear of control, fear of domestic control.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u21	Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry! I ask that you really limit yourself to Mr Jakič's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u22	And let the word be spoken within, at home and abroad, before the international community, for this I stand by. And Mr Jakič, if you could say, in all areas, we are in favour of the word being valid, we could accept it as a credible performance, but now you have been demagogic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to go back a little bit, so to the point where we stayed - so it's about deciding on the amendments to some of the articles - especially on our proposal. I would like to draw attention to a fact that no one is thinking about right now. Look, on the one hand, we say that negotiations with the European Union will intensify to even freeze because of free-carrying shops, due to transformation or closure. On the other hand, Sweden, which is the President of the European Union, places employment policies first among the three main elements to which it gives the most emphasis. Which means, of course, all the indicators are that there will be a few hundred - I read - a few hundred people can lose their jobs because of the transformation and the consequences of the transformation of free-duty shops. How will the Slovenians then meet the requirements of the President-in-Office of Sweden, which on the other hand says that Member States need to pay a lot of attention to employment and employment policies, but not to fall. By the way, if you'll excuse me, of course, there's a replica of Mr. Jakic. They don't have to be a free-carinian retail generator for the development of a region. In the Sava region, there were mines and power generators for the development of a large country, bigger than Slovenia, but a law on closure was simply adopted; how do we live there today, how the law is respected, so we know? [[I received a nice answer about this last time in the questions sent - no one said who was guilty of not respecting the law, we bear the consequences]] . In this way, these regions will bear the consequences. By the way, these regions already have major problems with unemployment and additional unemployment will fall under the burden of this Parliament and certain other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Colleague of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u26	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! While we are discussing amendments that set the time for the closure of duty-free shops, I would not like to discuss the date at this time, but I would like to discuss the fact that promises and regulations in the European Union are certainly imposing on Slovenia that it will have to close duty-free shops as soon as possible. However, I would like to focus my debate more on what will happen after the closure of duty-free shops. I therefore propose the adoption of two additional decisions to this Act: the first decision would be the same; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with companies within one month of the entry into force of the Act, prepare a programme for the restructuring of duty-free shops, focusing on the problems of dealing with the potentially unemployed, especially in border and less developed areas, and in areas where the unemployment rate is already above average. Of course, the dictatorship of this conclusion stems from the environment in which I live. Maribor has one of the highest unemployment rates and it is certainly necessary to think about this by closing down duty-free shops and with some more concrete binding words to charge the government with care for time after closure. In addition to the text of the second decision: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should monitor in particular the consequences of the closure of duty-free shops with regard to the reduction of employment in these shops and, consequently, in the municipalities in which they have previously operated. If the measures envisaged under the law on specific measures for the control of shops at road border crossings do not contribute to reducing the negative effects of increased unemployment, it should propose additional measures where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I would only ask for clarification if you could submit written conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u28	They're already in.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We will also consider the adoption of the law after the third reading, as the proposals of the two conclusions come also from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. So much for an explanation. Mr. Sok is the next to sign up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! To me, who somehow just started my term in Parliament, it seems to me, as far as I'm concerned about the media, and now that I'm listening to this debate, I think this is a story of a glass snail and a goat snake. This matter has had a beard for quite a long time and the fact is, of course, that the principles already exist, Mr Jerovšek, that it was promised in Brussels that Slovenia would close free-of-carry shops. I wonder if Minister Zoran Thaler did it, too, right? Is it true that when he made that promise, he had a government position on it? As we have heard, Parliament has never discussed anything like this and decided on it. The question now, of course, is whether Slovenia will remain a credible country before the European Union or will somehow swallow this promise. And if the word should apply, as Mr Jaklič said, then it is clear that this matter must be resolved in some way through Parliament and what has been promised, even in some way fulfilled. However, I would like to remind you, of course, that the word should always apply. Even when we talk about working bodies in the National Assembly, not just when it pleases the government coalition or the largest party. Otherwise, it would be logical for Slovenia to negotiate and close these stores when we enter the European Union, but we are obviously, I don't know, perhaps because of the lack of experience of Minister Thalar or for what reasons we have wasted this opportunity and, of course, now we have to keep this promise. Personally, it does not seem essential to me whether we do it in June or a month later. Obviously, this will have to be done, but of course it would be logical to listen to these arguments, which come from certain environments facing large unemployment, and to adopt those conclusions and those amendments that would rule those people who would be out of work, without jobs, so in some way help and try a situation that they are not guilty of, in some way to the benefit of everyone. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Yuri. The following are Mr Bernik and Mr Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, we'll find out. When we decided to go to the European Union, we did this because we were sure and we knew that this would open up new opportunities and new opportunities to increase jobs, increase revenues, increase prosperity. But when you climb, if you want higher, you go to the slaughterhouse. And it's a pain in the ass. Sometimes the road leads through the rails. This time, we're going to jail, and it hurts. But we have to do this consciously. The Commission for European Affairs of the previous National Assembly, here I would partly reply to my colleague Petan, has repeatedly addressed all the information related to the obligations we have undertaken with association membership, the whole problem of restructuring or transformation of PCPs. I would like to remind you of the warnings of a man we all respect, whether we belong to the left, center, or right, our chief negotiator, Dr. Potočnik. He performed very illustratively several times and said what the consequences were. That is why I believe the Minister's warnings that the consequences would be significantly greater, of course, to our detriment if the consequences of meeting this obligation were to be fulfilled. For a short time, it may be faster to know each other, and for a longer time, those other consequences would certainly be significantly more difficult. Because I believe in these warnings, because I also know that this is the case, because I believe it not least, and it is also sometimes necessary to read very carefully, the regular annual report of the European Commission, the emphasis in these reports and, of course, the messages that follow. The worst thing is to get in a situation where someone dictates exactly what you have to do. That is why, of course, diplomatically speaking, signals are reported. Those who know what this means also understand it properly. We're definitely late. At the time of ratification of the Association Agreement, I think there are also deadlines for meeting this obligation. If I'm not mistaken, we're late for a good year and a half if not two. It is true that we have not always taken our actions seriously and thoroughly, and because of political pressures, because of such and other circumstances, we have always found a reason for our decision. I believe that the warnings given today by Mr Minister are very serious and that we cannot afford any further delays. However, I will, of course, support the additional decision by my colleague Potrato and in the Group of Members, because our concern, the Government and the National Assembly that this damage, which will occur in the short term in the case of deuta free employees, is as low as possible. Finally, I'd like to remind you of something else, and here I have a personal conscience. I was the mayor of the Koper municipality for many years. Since 1992, we have begun to warn the government, together with trade unions, that a number of preventive programmes must be drawn up, either over-training, re-employment, re-retirement and so on, for all those risky jobs that were indicated when the state border was phased out. I remember some data from 1994 given to me by the unions, I hope it still holds that at the Slovenian-Italian border there are at risk 6,000 jobs. It's not just deuty free, it's a small percentage, it's a kind of other job that's tied to the state border. These are police officers, customs officers, freight forwarders, phytopathologists and a number of other profiles that we're gonna have to worry about equally. But of course, all these profiles already know. Those who are willing to do so also appropriately replace their jobs when they are given the opportunity. This place won't have to be shut down, but it will shut down itself when the state borders are gone and when we enter full membership. That is why, today, a warning and a call to the government that, however, we would not be in a situation like this again today when dilemmas, fears, etc. arise, so that we can take on other risky jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Dr. Bernick, I would like to inform you that there has been a technical error, a written error, in the third amendment. The drafter is the parliamentary group of the party of young Slovenia, the last year 2002 is incorrectly recorded. It's supposed to be the right thing to do in 2001. The Youth Party's emissary group is correcting and we apologize for its written error. I give my word to Dr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, this problem that we are dealing with today is driven by three engines. One is an unwise promise, an early promise, or whatever was given to close these offices at a certain time. Secondly, blackmailing two neighbouring countries and thirdly, the current government is coming to this crisis precisely because it has already taxed so many taxpayers that there has already been a shortage of space and now we have to look for other ways of financing and it will be one pound of labour. We won't be asking who did this, he made that promise. But we should ask ourselves why this promise was made. What "quid pro quo" was like when that promise was made. However, I will not go into the details, but I would like to point out that this is an important principle, namely, what the Slovenian government took as it began to negotiate in the European Union. Mr. Bavčar will recall when the first public meeting or kind of conversation was held in this Chamber. When the draft strategy of the Republic of Slovenia came out, we talked and, among other things, I said to him, "See if this is interesting" - when I read that draft - we have a ministry for Europe, but we do not have a ministry for Slovenia. Who will defend Slovenian interests?" And in fact, it seems that our starting points were often purely "ad hockey", and this is now repeated into the third or fourth Drnovšk government. When we look at our foreign policy problems, we see that this is repeated in all areas. So I would like to know whether there are no such questions, because all words apply, of course - I myself have been present in many business negotiations around the world - when you learn something, the situation changes, and then you try to change it. And this has never been satisfactorily explained; it has always been said that we cannot do this because we will look bad. Maybe that's true. And if that's true, of course, then we have to keep that word. But if that is not true, let this question be tried to open up and see how far we can go with it. All I really want to say is that it seems to me that we must have first of all Slovenian interests in mind.If we have to sacrifice something, of course we will, but we also need to know what will be the "quid pro quo" we ourselves want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and representatives of the government! At the outset, I would like to say that my implementation is not a fight for businesses, for the privileges of leaders in these companies, but that implementation will focus on the problems that employees will face in the second and third hierarchical scales of companies that have concessions for the sale of free-carrying shops. The Balin promise made by former Minister Thaler before the representatives of the European Union had already done so much damage to that country that if it had instruments, it would have to be called to account. How much time, paper, money, and everything has been spent to deal with this problem, probably no one will be able to calculate it. But all these costs, all this time, are a fraction of the damage that will eventually happen because we will have to keep this promise. Even today, under Mr Bavčar's Ministry, I do not know whether we are working for Slovenia or working for the European Union. If we worked for our people, employees, and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then somehow I would understand. But I don't think we're working for our own good. From the outset, I am asking you what happens to a minister in any European Union country who does not work for the benefit of its inhabitants and citizens, but for the benefit of the foreign. As far as I know, their term of office is over very quickly. But no matter what, let me touch some of the problems that are brought about by premature or even closing down free-of-customs stores. I said I'd talk about the employees. True, most shops along the border with Italy and Austria lie in an area in municipalities that are poorly developed. I come from one where unemployment is about 15%, and I know that compared to other municipalities, which also have free-market shops in their territory, this percentage is not even the highest. So it is also a matter of congregations with 20, 25, and more per cent unemployment. Those who talk about the transformation of free-carrying shops can say so themselves and only to bluff before the public. At the final stage, we're going to have to shut these stores down. It's about the economics bill. Which one of us is going to go to the border if he can buy the same prices in the immediate neighborhood under the same conditions? Who will buy the goods and have to show personal legitimacy for the purchase of the goods so that they can bring them to Slovenia? Who's going to have any interest in buying anyway? Already, Italy and Austria prove that most buyers come from Slovenia. When I have touched both neighbouring countries, I ask myself whether we are such a small nation, even a small one, proud to say to the European Union that we will close free-of-carry shops when, for example, Italy has abolished the ratings for the purchase of petrol in the border belt or that Mr Haider and his campaign in Austria have abolished the tobacco law. I would like to point out that the ministers of these two countries and all the competent ones can still draw on their interests to help their citizens. Let's ask ourselves where our pride is. I'd like to draw attention to some other things. Unemployment will follow either the closure or the transitional phase of the conversion of PCPs. I ask you, which one of those great men, with the great promises of the European Union, has ever thought of an employed family where a man and a woman work in one of the shops who, with relatively good wages, have rented a house-building loan. If any of these two are followed by unemployment, who will settle their loan, who will pay their mortgage expenses, and which the bank that gave the loan will simply sell to cover this loan. Whether these people have been working completely without connection for all these years or have gone to work to bear the consequences of the Baal promises. The problem is not just for employees. The problem is also in the congregations. Those mayors, you're very rare here, but you know very well that these salesmen don't bring what the mayors want, but much more for the development of the place than just the stores. The problem of these congregations is considerable. In Šentilj, in Tržič, in Jesenice, in Kranjsko Gora for the next 50 years, you will not get any company, any company of the European Union, which will build as many stores as it can build in the center of Slovenia, in Ljubljana. The comparison of the squares between the Leclarc store in Ljubljana, which hired, I don't know how many times 100 people, and all the squares of free-of-carry shops, is 1:8. So many times bigger is Leclarc in Ljubljana. It is a shame that we did not know how to put an account on the European Union, for example, for such a large company that comes to Slovenia and at the same time requires its intermediaries to close the change at the borders. Where is our pride and protection of Slovenian employees? I will personally support that amendment, which dictates as late as possible the closure of free-customs shops, also because I reject all the government's tax arguments. You know, taxes that aren't collected directly at the borders come indirectly back, whatever you're looking at, back to the country. Those taxes on profits generated in these shops are employees' wages, and the capital of directors who at the moment do not give a damn because they already have enough already, but it is money spent in the country for those goods which are still taxed, so taxed from the other hand, if I may say so, not directly. Although the country loses a little once, it gets all of this in other taxes fairly and fairly back. I would also like to draw attention to a letter from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In this letter you have quite a few points that have been accepted and supported at a meeting in Maribor, where most of the participants coming from the state communities have confirmed and thus asked all of you to support them - to support them for the sake of the employees and for the sake of our pride. I personally believe that Slovenia will not suffer from integration into the European Union due to the PCPs. I would rather draw attention to a much larger problem, which can indeed be a problem, perhaps a border with Croatia, perhaps an unresolved other relationship with Yugoslavia. These are the problems that our country should address as a priority in order to be included in the European Union first. True, the promise has been made, but with the understanding that is certainly also present with negotiators in the European Union, it can compromise. Please help all the congregations we have and who will face this problem and all the people whose eyes and requests are today opposed to this Parliament. I think it is irresponsible for the government to transfer the problem of closure following this foolish promise to the decision-making body of the national assembly. I believe that, at the final stage, if we had any courage, even if we had no Parliament, we could set a closing date. However, this is a big risk, and so is the urgency of radical change around these problems, because the idea that people will forget everything before the next elections is one way or another. Once again, please support the maximum possible deadline for closing PCPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Kavčič and Mr Igor Bavčar have also applied for the debate in the order of order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u38	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members! A number of arguments, serious concerns, some more, some less, have been raised from various parliamentary groups, why not think or accept obligations to transform free-customs stores only when entering the European Community or even within a certain period of entry; why do we not, for example, allow for the transformation of free-customs stores by eliminating an unfair measure by differentiated the prices of petrol on the Italian side; why some say we have not abolished the privileges of free-customers stores before; how to replace the positive impact of free-of-tax shops on the economy of certain border municipalities. These are important issues, important issues and, therefore, probably we did not have an easy decision in any of the members of the group to reach a final position on this issue. However, in doing so, I must say that many of the most important national economic issues related to the integration into the European community have come to the attention of a significantly smaller number of us. However, it would be useful to take a closer look at this issue. From the question of what would be better, however, to limit itself to the question of what this moment can be realized and what can be achieved in the negotiations with Europe. Good results, we said. Good results of companies operating in free-of-carry shops. One thing was not said here: Where do these good results come from? Of course, we must commend the entrepreneurship of the people who are working on this, but the basic source of these good results is the fact that the state budget is giving up part of its revenue. This is where positive results come from. Nothing goes wrong with the owners, the employees, the management. They have legitimately made sufficient use of the concession, the free concession given to them by the legislator. They were aware that they would be able to do so within a certain period of time. In some cases, they invested more in the development of the environment, in which they worked, and in some cases less, and in some cases nothing. However, from the point of view of us, which, however, have a common interest in doing business rationally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such a way of financing regional development is certainly one of the least fortunate. If we want to get a tolar into regional development communities, then it is through the fact that the state is giving up so much of its revenue in its budget as it is in the current regulation of free-duty shops, certainly one of the most expensive, most indirect ways that, of course, allows huge money to be poured into different, even private, sources that cannot be seen. But once again, what we have is irrational from the point of view of the state budget. We're talking about jobs. You know, tens of thousands of jobs went wrong due to technological development, due to globalisation, due to technological change. Ericsson had to give up 7,000 jobs these days. Therefore, the solution is not in the protection of some jobs, but in the opening up of new jobs, it is in creating circumstances where new jobs will be created. In this context, of course, when I weigh the reasons "for" and the reasons "against" I have to define myself in a way that will fully support the government proposal, and I expect this also to give support to better regulation of the prices of petrol on the Italian side and also to the measures of the Austrians when importing tobacco products. It is said that support does, but I expect that the government will also see this as support and an incentive to deal more effectively with certain pressing issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mr. Kavčič. Well, that's what I'd like to see if the government will force or achieve more expensive petrol in Italy, and I'd like to see and hear from the Minister's mouth if he can set a deadline to stand up against Italian and Austrian demands. Look when you're talking about jobs. As far as I know, very many Members and customers fought for jobs even when the issue of employees in Tam, Pek, Automontage, Adria Caravan, Tomos or I did not know how many companies had already gone bankrupt. But there is one essential difference. All these companies, and many others, who had to stop their business and even say goodbye to the employees, faced various problems. You've listed them yourself. It was for non-profits, bad standing companies, for factories that worked and so on. There's a significant difference. We are now closing down companies that have very good returns, which have very large profits and we are giving up I don't know about cases in Europe that have ever closed down factories or companies that have had positive returns that have profits. [[...]] We promised. We have promised to simply close one of these profitable tomato horses. I understand all those factories that are doing badly, I understand the employees who are facing, the struggle has been too small on your part for these same people, but we can't push them into the same basket. Once again, there are significant differences. Then let's close the casinos, shut down, I don't know what. We now set out what you support, a government proposal. You know what you really support? That we have promised the European Union, in my quotations, I am comparing that we will close all the annual bathing sites in order to close the Slovenian coast so that the Slovenians can go to the sea to Spain in the European Union. This is happening now. Stopping free-carrying shops before the main tourist season. It's nonsense, I'm sorry. And that's what you support. And I must object to that, absolutely. But I'd like to warn you again. Remember the words I said before, so around profits and around companies that had problems and losses. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Igor Bavcar and to Mr Končan Dark, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I listen to your comments and questions about when this promise was made, who made this promise. Wrong quoting of a joint statement as quoted by Mr Pece when he said that this statement said that we would not open new ones. It doesn't say that. I am listening to Mr Barovic, who is talking about the Swedish Presidency putting employment first. The Swedish Presidency is known for three years, "employment, environment, energy". Among these, it does not specifically put the first place of employment, although I, of course, consider this to be an extremely important, extremely important priority of the Swedish Presidency. Here would be the case in this case of the law that we are dealing with and the topics that we have on the agenda are the fact that, with the start of negotiations on the entry into the European Union, we enter a space where four great freedoms apply: the free movement of goods, capital, services and people. We enter a space of free competition where this principle of free competition is enshrined among the first and key principles of the European Union. At the start of the negotiations, in the strategy mentioned by Mr Bernik, we have clearly found that this means that we will be exposed to competitive pressure and competition, which will require us to highlight the most important real capacities of our economy, our economy, Slovenia's competitiveness and the Slovenian economy. We can't compete with tax evasion. We cannot compete with the privileges, with the specific situation of certain activities such as free-of-customs shops. In this regard, I can say that pride, Mr. Rupar, cannot live. When we made this key decision, of course, we were aware that there are a number of areas in which this competitive fight will lead to very difficult decisions. Even if the joint declaration to Article 94 does not contain what it says, and if we do not block the negotiations in Chapters 10 and 25 because of this topic, it is a decision to join the European Union, in fact, to equalise all economic operators on this market, so that we do not allow anyone to have a special position. When we talk about the measures we are taking in this law, I can say that we are doing this with a substantial lighter conscience, as it seems from some of your discussions. The net financial impact of such measures, which you have in the works, is essentially calculated by these, I will say, the most black scenarios, according to the scenarios that speak of the least net effect on the state budget in the event of the adoption of this law. The net financial impact may be significantly higher. What you have in your materials is the worst option that can happen to us is at least as far as we can get from this action. I would trust Mr Rupar with his calls for a husband and wife who have credit and are paying for the building and would trust him to care for the unemployed if he did not submit his amendment to Article 13a, where he introduces a tax that this country has never introduced, 10 per cent of the total income of these companies. I recommend to Mr Rupar that he align these performances with his proposals to be aware of what he is actually proposing. At this point, I'm going to say, in defense of free-duty stores, based on his proposal. Its proposal for this free-of-carry shop virtually eliminates the economic situation. So please don't tell me that the government is bluffing when they're talking about not shutting them down. The government proposes their normal taxation and their transformation. I think that the amendments proposed by the Government must be adopted from this point of view. In this way, I think that the principles that we want to enter this area of the European Union and to be aware of this - as Ambassador Blaž Kavčič said - can be applied more to open new jobs, to technological restructuring, to regional development, than to prolong the current status of free-duty shops.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I need to replicate. You have indeed spoken of the four essential freedoms that are in the European Union, but you have not yet brought us into the European Union. We do not have the status of equal members of the EU. We can go on to do this for us too, but achieve that we will apply these conditions when we are members of the European Union, PCPs and the free market, that is our priority. About my amendment that will follow. You're bluffing again, Mr. Secretary - forgive me, it's hard for me to say this because I respect you, but still. The amendment refers to 10% of which should belong to the local communities from the annual income shown. What's the deal with employee salesmen? Nothing. This relates to profits earned by free-of-carry shops or profits held by companies owned by them. These profits are going somewhere now, I don't know who - I don't know, so they're investing them somewhere or whatever. It's just that that positive mass of money is going back to the local community. Where does that say you have to take 10% of the employee's salary? Nowhere. Well, it's a matter of deceiving, Mr. Minister, I have to report this to you again, or maybe it's a misreading of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bavčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u46	Your argument that we are not members is an argument against your question about gasoline. We're associated members and someone else's. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] who has decided on the exceptions, this is the meeting of the European Union's finance ministers, we do not participate. [[...]] Once we are full members, we will also be able to influence the decisions adopted by these and other European Union bodies as well as by other Member States. At that time, however, we are trying our best and, of course, the way we have it, which is mainly political, and, of course, the one that concerns the meeting of the bodies set up under the Association Agreement, to fight for such measures not to occur. As for your argument against my statement regarding your amendment, please, of course, distinguish between income and profit and, of course, that these are two categories, and that your proposal, I will say, goes far beyond and significantly further into the taxation of shops that you are protecting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Only in the last part did the debate come more to the economic aspects of not closing free-carrying stores than today's speech, although I know that you are aware of the substantive differences, but of the transformations. Minister Bavčar has already stated and Mr Rupar has also repeated these four freedoms. In the last four years, when I participated in the fiscal committee for the European integration of CFE, I have actually heard from my colleagues many times. But besides these four freedoms, one is political, certainly, it is this free movement of people, but the other three: the free movement of capital, goods and services are essential economic categories. They're talking about cots. At the end of all three economics essentially condition the following, which is the postulate, this is the principle, this is the enforcement of free, loyal competition throughout the market for all participating entities. If this debate is now essentially compared to the discussion on the transformation of our free-customs stores. If we go a little bit back in history, why were countries' economic systems and fiscal systems primarily designed or established. First of all, as economic units of large airlines, which in this way reduced the pressure and raised funds to invest in infrastructure, development and technology of airlines. It was not until a few decades later that, for such or other reasons, the fiscal struggle and competition between fiscal administrations of different countries led to the opening of a free-duty at borders between countries. In this way, we compete with the budget, the fissures, the tax administrations among ourselves, who will bring more money to another country's account, at the expense of another budget. So in this transformation, if we are talking primarily about economic reasons, because as the State Secretary for the Fiscal System of Taxes and Customs itself, I cannot really touch it, but I can point out that this study, which has been discussed today, does not just talk about reducing traffic by 25%, although there is a difference of 60-75 existing traffic in realisation, it also speaks of a number of other criteria that have been taken into account, it could even say in a somewhat pessimistic version of this study, and the resulting net financial impact on our fiscal system, at about 1 billion and a half, regardless of how we interpret it now. Mr Bernik mentioned that this country has imposed all possible taxes. Mr Rupar spoke about certain taxes, but I have to intervene professionally here to explain that, of course, when we talk about taxes, there are different types of taxes. Like people, like taxpayers, we're basically always confusing. What weighs you down like a tax burden, you say, is a tax. However, taxes are of a personal nature, are personal taxes, property taxes, direct, indirect and are transaction taxes. I see no reason for any of the different types of taxes to be thrown into the same basket and interpreted in this way, because these free-customs stores have been in the past few decades, and especially in recent years, they have undoubtedly experienced a great benefit from the State, for which they have not paid practically anything, continued to enjoy this rating, accumulated profit, not profit, but profit, on this basis that they can essentially be placed anywhere. As far as I know, and as much as I remember the conversations where Mr Rupar also participated and some of you, when we were with representatives, the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, who had their own free-carrying shops and some others, discussed in Maribor, except for one, and Terme Maribor, who had always been aware of the past years and had invested part of the accumulated profits in parallel development, but not just waited until the last moment to either reshape or stop these free-caring shops. Let us just remember the situation when we introduced value added tax in our country. Someone could quickly say that again because of the European Union. Yes, because the government in the European Union and practically around the world have a fiscal system that has its own big advantages, it also has some negative effects, but only these negative consequences have to be lied to in a different way, with social transfers and other forms, not by making exceptions. Exceptions to the exception and, in essence, to this disloyal competition that we have already discussed today. And also two, three months before the introduction of VAT itself, which is certainly a significantly different element, a significantly different phase towards the implementation of the tax reform that we have been implementing since 1990 in this country in order to get closer to the developed market system, not only to Europe, but also to the rest of the world, there have been many initiatives to shift, if any, to get some time to adjust. As an expert in the field of taxation, I estimate that there were worse preparations at the time, but we were all pleased to find together that there were no crises in the introduction of value added tax. There are minor problems, but not such as to cause the disaster that is being discussed today. There's been a speech that we've charged a variety of taxes. I repeat, so I answer Mr Bernik: nothing different, practically nothing has been done, we just have income, we have value added tax, we have a corporate profit tax, in short, these normal taxes, which are everywhere in the world. The fact is that in this year - and so in the government's programme - we will be preparing new ones of these laws, in fact even new laws will be proposed to take a step forward in order to address some problems and misunderstandings, because in this way we can cause this tax inequality. In any case, we must defend the tax equality of all entities, all taxpayers. And we can't defend these things on this account. It was interesting to discuss one of the leaders of free-carrying shops in Gorenjska, Mr Kosher, who also said in this debate, czech, because many Slovenians end up buying in these "duty free" or free-carrying shops, and in this way these PCPs are essentially unfair competition for other companies and companies in this country. And he said, and then you can just get them on the border within the customs service and control, and then you can get a sharper grip, and that's how this equality is going to be ensured. I agree with him; of course, this cannot be an excuse for our customs service not to carry out its statutory role and to make some exceptions on its own. However, the question is, if this - of course, normally within the framework of the law and powers conferred by the customs service - we will be obliged to respect this and we will begin to do so, this intense activity. This, of course, does not mean that now we will be stuck, yes, because we have begun to implement the customs law consistently, as it is, but because of this, the traffic in free-carrying shops will fall if we continue to act smoothly, as it has been so far. So the type is these fiscal reasons. It's not like we're moping holes in the budget in any way. We need to ensure normal fiscal revenues as are applicable to all market operators. From this point of view, I can say that the Ministry of Finance, especially those professional services that have prepared materials and arguments in this part, supports the proposal to implement the date proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Given that no one has applied for the debate in this part, we are on page 6 of the amendments and are moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u50	Procedurally, Vice President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we want an hour's rest for reflection on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u51	Since it's a vacation request, we're adjourning the meeting. We will continue at 2.30 p.m., because it is also scheduled for a vacation from 13.00 to 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u52	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue with the afternoon part of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 2nd session, on 31.01.2001, Borut Shuklje, for the afternoon part of the meeting, the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, from 3 p.m. onwards, Jelko Kacin for all day and Leopold Kremjar for all day. Please, let's establish presence by inserting the cards. [[59 present.]] This means that the National Assembly may decide on a valid basis. Does the representative of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] We continue where we broke up in the morning, moving on to the decision-making process. After reviewing the amendments tabled, we are on page 6. We will first vote on the first amendment for the new Article 12a, proposed by Saš Pečet. It's an amendment to the government's amendment. The proposaler is Sasha Pece. First amendment. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to the government's amendment for a new 12.b Article. The proposaler is Sasha Pece. We're voting! Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment to the government's amendment for the new 12.a and 12.b. The drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the third amendment has not been adopted. The fourth amendment is irrelevant, as we have already found in the first part, so we are not voting on it; we are also voting on the fifth amendment. We are moving to a vote on the basic amendment, the sixth amendment, on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother's working body. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the amendments to Article 13, namely, the first amendment to the government's amendment to Article 13 of Saša Peca's proposal, the government opposes this amendment, and the mother's working body does not support it. Under number 2, the amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 13 proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia notes that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same amendment to the Government's amendment to Articles 12a and 12b and to the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 13a. The amendment under number 3 is irrelevant because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew its amendment to Article 13 of 14.12.2000 on 25.1.2001 and proposed a new amendment to Article 13. The fourth amendment is also irrelevant. Under number 5, the Government's basic amendment is to amend Article 13; the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the mother labour body of that amendment supports. I am opening a debate on those amendments to Article 13. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to, we're going to make a decision. We are voting on the first amendment to the government's amendment to article 13 of Saš Pečet's proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to the government's amendment to Article 13. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the second amendment was passed to me. We will not vote on the third and fourth because they are irrelevant. We move to the vote on the fifth amendment. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[66 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the fifth amendment has been adopted. I am putting amendments to the debate for a new 13a Article, namely, one: the amendment to the amendment of the government for a new 13a Article, the proposaler is the parliamentary group of young Slovenia's party, noting that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same amendment to the amendment of the government for the new 12a and 12b articles, and the amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the government to the 13th article which we have not accepted. Under two: the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 13a is irrelevant, as indicated in the footnotes, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew its amendment on 25.1.2001 for a new Article 13a of 14.12.2000 because it proposed a new amendment for a new Article 13a. The same applies to the two amendments referred to in points 3 and 4, namely the amendment to the Government's amendments for the new Article 13a. The amendment under five is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother's working body. The amendment under six is the amendment of the proposaler Paul Rupar, to whom the government opposes. It is not supported by the parent working body, with a note, if the amendment is adopted, it should be duly renumbered if the amendment of the Government for the new Article 13a is to be adopted. I am opening a debate on the amendments I just cited. I'm asking if anyone wants to debate because no, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the first amendment to the government's amendment for the new Article 13a, the rapporteur is the SMS Group. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We do not vote on the second, third and fourth for the reasons given. This is how we turn to the vote on the fifth amendment, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported by its mother's working body. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth amendment of the proposaler Paul Rupar, to whom the government opposes it, is also not supported by his mother's working body. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In the debate, I am putting one amendment to Article 14, whose proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We move to a vote on this amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to Article 14 has been adopted. I am putting to the debate one amendment to Article 15 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing - its parent working body supports it. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We move to a vote on this amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment to Article 15 has been adopted. We are moving on to a vote on Article 15 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 15 has been fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to say a word, I am putting to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? To the title of the law we have the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also supported by the mother labour body [[is in the review of the amendments on page 16]] . Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u53	I think it's just editorial. I don't suppose it's properly spelled "free customs" but it should be written "free tariff" shops. I think it's an established term because they're not free shops, but they're free customs stores. Please, it's purely expressive, if you check.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because he does not want me to vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the title of the law. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment to the title of the law was adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to individual articles, as reflected in the review, as well as to the title of the draft law, were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to make amendments to this article or to the title of the law, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? I note that we have two or four written applications, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Barovic, and then Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, should be prepared. Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u55	Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the executive branch, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with one quote, and hopefully I won't be disturbed because this quote is still connected to today's question and to today's point. In particular, I know that if not, this quote will be happy and supported by Mr Tone Partlič. The essence of the problem is precisely in this quotation and a later explanation. It's from Cankar's play. You'll get to know her address yourself. Behold, the man of this day is not faithful to his neighbour: neither to his brother, nor to his friend; neither is he faithful to himself, nor to his knowledge, nor to his nature. Would you be faithful to this people who trust in the eye and the word as a child? Think about it! For six months it was barely, from sowing to harvesting, but people, without number, rejected their minds and conscience as a harmful burden on this journey to bread. Those who mocked God himself kneel before his unworthy servants: before the curse, now prayer. But the word took hold sooner than later, for their heart was empty. And so it happened from sowing to harvesting. And if the weather closes tonight, they'll be begging who's still praying. The new truth has overshadowed the world, an experienced man has explained it to me: "Slappy, that you may be watered and satisfied, and do not question who your master is, and for he commands you." The young men who sold themselves willingly are more zealous than the master himself: the master crosses himself, the servant prays the pink wreath; the lord prays our Father; the servant does the nine days. The more careful guardians have no foolishness, night and day standing before her ass, lest a word from the outside catch her, nor cause her to err in a faithful heart." Who is someone in this quote by John Cankar, you probably know from the debate - today: who the European Union is, who we are. From the quoted section of Cankar's Masters, there is some sort of slavery, which, unfortunately, is typical of us Slovenians; it is obvious in the proposal of the law on specific measures for the control of shops at road border crossings. Why? The countries bordering Slovenia and members of the European Union have dealt with us Slovenians at border crossings and are still following the provisions of the Schengen Agreement. So, as with nationals of a country that is not a member of the European Union, we and the Slovenians should act on these same border crossings as the European Union has wanted, at least in this case, and that we are already in the European Union. The Italians extended the subsidisation of prices at the Slovenian border by law; we Slovenians were to give up on profits in free-of-carry shops. Their regulations are made up by Austrian connoisseurs, and we are supposed to bow down again and, of course, give up the profits. Such conduct means the same to me as if one of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia requested that the provisions of a law which is not in force at all. Slovenia is expected to reshape the PCP, and entry into the European Union is delayed - from year to year, and for us, despite our absolute submission to the requirements of the European Union, it is still a godly desire and a stranger. Will that be in 2003, will it be in 2005? Maybe. Secondly, according to the content of the most important element in our explanation of vote, the proposal for a law on specific control measures for shops at road border crossings does not guarantee some 100 employees in PCP today that they will be able to work. All the assessments made on the basis of the bill's proposal as a consequence prove a few hundred job losses. It would be unaesthetic to say at this point that workers in PCP after the adoption of the law will be able to continue to work in shops that will get the status of normal stores; for I do not imagine that - for example - Kranjčan will go to Jezersko in PCP into a transformed ordinary trade. Nor will it be visited by foreigners who will cross the border, as they will find the same goods, even better and more diversified, at the same and even lower prices, right in the first trade across the border, either in their own or in the neighbouring country. Like the Austrians in Italy, where the prices of goods at the Slovenian border are subsidised by the Italian state. That is why we do not want Sonja Areh Lavrič, Victory Jelinčič, Saša Peca and Bogdan Barovič, and we do not want some 100 Slovenian workers to lose their jobs because of the proposed law on special measures for the control of shops at the road border crossings. We will vote against the adoption of this law and thus try to prevent new unemployment and to show our firm stand against Slovenia's helping towards the European Union, at least on some issues. However, we support and support this and such adaptation of Slovenian legislation to the European Union, which will compare Slovenia with the Member States of the European Union on an equal footing and based on respect between the Member States of the European Union and the country of Slovenia. And I will tell you one more time: I know, but you also know how easy it is to close something, but how hard it is to survive it; but if you do not know, ask those among whom you live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u57	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister and Government Representatives, Dear Fellows and Fellows! In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we find and are convinced that Slovenian negotiators under the leadership of the then Foreign Minister, Mr Zoran Thaler, have proved very poorly in their promises and negotiations. We are convinced that the promise and commitment to close free-carrying shops was both urgent and unnecessary. Mr Thaler in the Economic Gazette notes that this was not his credit, but that it came from the then government peaks. We may believe him, but I think it would be the power to correct this mistake today and even earlier if the Slovenian Parliament were also involved in this decision. Studies on net financial effects and also on the financial consequences of the closure may, in the opinion of some, be beneficial to observers from safe chairs here in Ljubljana. But we are hardly serious about this from the perspective of employees in these shops and from the perspective of the most affected areas. Given the commitments made, we are now in a situation of no choice if we are to maintain our credibility or credibility of our country and the pace of adapting the European Community. However, if we fall back on old Balkan customs to promise something and do something different, of course we have more choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Kebric would like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, we have tabled two amendments that you will receive on the bench at any time. Let me say that this is a minimal change, which we want to make in the title and then in the 1st and all of the other articles adequately amends the text by saying: 'at border crossings with the European Union', not 'with Italy and Austria'. Because we know that they have already collected over 180,000 signatures in Austria for the referendum and no one knows what the outcome of the referendum will be. In the event that Austria withdraws from the European Union, we believe why we should then have closed free-customs shops at this border, but if we consider it useful, we can reopen them without complications. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to vote for these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Does he want to do it on behalf of the MPs? Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u61	A respected choir! In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that it is necessary for the European Union to show our great desire for accession, but by no means by interpreting international treaties contrary to its own national interests, in order to meet the political pressure expressed primarily by the individual neighbours of the EU. Mainly here I mean Italy and Austria. We, with our amendment, were actually trying to enable free-of-carinian retailers to reshape. What we are going to vote on today means their closure, and we are actually going to vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kavčič, on behalf of the Group of Members, liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u63	Dear Vice-President, Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Much has been said, so perhaps just some thoughts that have not been articulated so clearly. In changing free-carrying stores, we sometimes forget that it is a bit of a strange phenomenon. Prostitution stores result from the decision to make one part of the population; this means that people who travel internationally do not pay part of the taxes paid by ordinary citizens. From here this business originates, from this came an industry that has produced certain positive effects that have taken advantage of a particular window of time. We can be satisfied, sometimes it was for better, sometimes for worse effects, but the people who ran this business, of course, were aware of the limited definitions and the limited time window of this business. If we look at the question of transforming free-carrying stores from the point of view that I like to use, with the principles of a good host, then, of course, one brief conclusion that the transformation of these shops into normal stores from the point of view of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a positive event. In doing so, let us not forget a little bit more, this is a health-social aspect: among the products that constitute the main part of the operation of free-duty shops are tobacco and alcohol in particular. Analysis shows that in the national economy, consumption of more than 4 litres of alcohol per capita per year is a direct financial loss, including in terms of the state budget. Not to mention all the negative social consequences of this problem. That is why, despite the respect for reservations, arguments against the full support of the Government's intentions, we will therefore fully support this law in the LDS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Bozič also joined the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We've been talking for a long time about the Free Car Shops Act, no matter what we're going to call it in the end. Today we have adopted a change to even his name in the last point of the government proposal. The law really needs to be adopted, and all we have done so far is work to extend the deadline a little. Why? I've spent the last two years talking about free-carrying stores. On 17 September 1999, I asked the National Assembly and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs what is the reduced fuel price in the provinces of Friuli, Venezia, Julia, Trbiz and Trieste. I got such a silent answer that it wasn't a decent answer. Really! We were talking about gas. We often talked and wondered about universities. The Italians are strengthening their economy on the other side: Sinhrotron, University of Trieste, Vidma, Gorica; and Austria is the same. They have updated rail from Trieste via Ponteba to Trbž, they can give three times the capacity they have now. Therefore, they are also happy that we will hire a pier in Trieste, and will be hired by Luka Koper, so that this railway will have more traffic. Soon we'll start talking about breaking the border and where we'll give these people who are working there today. This isn't all good. At the same time, we will cut off that source of income that companies have at the border. I'm not talking about not being able to take these companies anymore. Why didn't we give them more? But when something closes, it's really hard to open it back up. Today, I will repeat three statements, which have often been quoted here: that it is a public interest to close free-of-carry shops. What about our Slovenian pride? Can everyone really tell us what to do? It was also said about tax evasion and loyal competition. I have before me an official letter from the European Community dated December 1999, which is approved for political reasons to increase the price of mineral fuels in the provinces of Frijuli, Venezia, Julia, Trbiz and Trst. This is political competition. And we're pretty quiet! I think in a year and a day we'll be wondering what politics is and what the economy is. Of course, the law is before it will be adopted in a few minutes, yet: someday we will have to ask ourselves a little bit more about our Slovenian pride, do we have any. Slovenia! For the last time, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, soon we will be in the European Union, whether we will really - and God forbid that this should happen - even in this Chamber we should speak in any foreign language.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I welcome all the present, I welcome the Members and Members of Parliament, and the Minister. I come from a place where three valleys connect, these are Mežiška, Dravska and Małunijska. Here are the mayors of the municipalities of Korea calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to actively approach negotiations to extend the operations of Slovenian PCPs and to co-financing, professional assistance in the restructuring of free-of-tax shops. The restructuring of free-carrying shops will, according to some data, threaten the existence of at least 1,000 jobs, and indirectly at least three times as many, especially in threatened border areas. These shops represent important, even important, economic activity in these areas, and not only the issue of these shops, but also the question of the existence of many related activities that have developed through one-day tourism. By restructuring we will also lose an important part of income and a number of families' livelihoods. The purpose of our public call is clear. We demand that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia actively join the negotiations on the extension of Slovenian PCPs and that Europe be informed of all legal facts, the economic consequences that early transformation of the PCP before joining the EU would have an area of the region, in particular for our Koroška. Stopping overnight is not the only solution, but for Slovenia, especially the inhabitants of endangered border areas, is the most expensive. At the same time as the extended deadline for the conversion of PCPs, the country also identifies funds to help families and companies and to restructure trades and programmes remain. Well, restructuring wouldn't be a solution either. So much for that. I'd like to add some more. There are the most unemployed people in the region. There are families when there's only one working in these stores. If we enter Europe, another unemployment will occur in a little while — which are, say, customs officers and others when they are out of work. I'd add that. We also note that PCP Holmec, through its exemplary business, is conducting a positive tourist promotion of our country and also our municipalities, as the impression on our country was extremely positive. And there are, say, others, this Radja and Vich. And I would ask, on behalf of the mayors of the 12 municipalities of Korea, for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to the debate on the amendments table, as Mr Ivan Kebrich has sent messages and on the table you have received Excuse me, I ask you, do you have any amendments to the DeSUS Group? [[...]] For the address. Are those papers on the table yet? Thank you very much. Otherwise I can read it. Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u69	Allow me to briefly explain this amendment once again. I have just been warned by the Secretariat of Law that it is not exactly the right address as I suggested. I think you'll understand it better if we take this opinion into account. Let it be: with the Member States of the European Union. I believe that this is also acceptable to the government, but I expect the government to come forward with the amendment, because we believe that we are concluding for the European Union, not for Austria or Italy. I think I can reasonably expect your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I am therefore opening the debate on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 1. The explanation is wanted by the representative - Mrs Bitenčeva from the secretariat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u71	Madam Vice President, the House of Honor. I would first like to provide an explanation concerning the dictatorial correct statement of the idea. Indeed, it would be essential to correct the text by reading: 'With the Member States of the European Communities operating within the European Union'. However, as far as the text is concerned, we have just received an additional amendment to the table, which is also referred to in Article 1 and also in the rest of the rest of the text, which is particularly important if the text is to be harmonised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Bavcar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. If I leave behind these reasons that seem justified to me, then I would say that if, in Austria, the Republic of Austria were to see a referendum open and this referendum was to succeed, it would be necessary - as this country had taken several years to become a member and negotiated membership - according to estimates for many years to get out of the membership of the European Communities. At that time, I believe that this law will be consummated to the end and this comment will no longer be relevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs Simsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u75	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I have only an editorial question, because I am not home in Europe as much as maybe anyone else, even less in neighbouring Italy. I ask the representative of the secretariat or the Minister, is the name of the neighbouring Republic of Italy correctly spelled out throughout the law? I'm used to a slightly different diction, so I'm asking, and I don't want to see any awkwardness. Thank you so much for explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u77	Yes, the Italian Republic is an official name.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. My proposal is also editorial in nature, i.e. I would suggest, instead of "free-carrying shops", the term "free-of-customs shops". An example of the translation of "duty free" is a typical example of a calcified translation and I ask you how you would react if someone invited you to an event and told you that entry is free of charge. We probably call that free entry. It's about being "duty free," it's about that "free" thing. "free" or "free" and we can make this Slovenian friendship "free". So I suggest "no duty."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As far as editorial processing of the text is concerned, this is usually the work of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, where we take into account the dictions or definitions of concepts, as introduced in the legal system of system laws. So that all these editorial recommendations or comments will be checked according to the system law, the customs law, and as introduced into the legal system there, we will use them here, and I do not want to go there to see if a very good translation has already been done there. However, I believe that any corrections should be made in a central, i.e. in a system law, in order to then have a single concept for a particular type of settlement of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I think that by adopting this amendment proposed by DeSUS, we are prejudging certain matters. It may happen that the State of Hungary becomes a full member or perhaps Croatia, but then we have both recognised the same status as we now do with Italy and Austria. I will therefore vote in favour of the original dictatorship of this text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since I do not wish to put to the vote the amended amendment to Article 1, the proposer is the DeSUS Group, which reads as follows: The word "between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria or the Italian Republic" is replaced by the word "with the Member States of the European Community operating within the European Union". We are voting on this amendment. We're voting. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the same amendment to the title of the bill, the same candidate, the DeSUS Group of Members. We're voting. Presence! Sorry, I forgot to press. From now on, we are voting. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the amendment to the title has been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u85	Madam Vice President, the House of Honor. The secretariat will take into account, I will say, the full text of the amendment adopted to Article 1 which has to end, I will say, the addition that this phrase is also taken into account in Articles 2, 10, 12 and 12a and b. So there's a proper replacement of the old text everywhere. If any such link is found, it will not be reviewed by the Secretariat, and it will apply the adopted decision of the National Assembly accordingly, and, let us say, conditions, we believe that the text is harmonised and that there has not been any disagreement in the text due to the adoption of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote a full bill. We're voting. Presence! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, several proposers have tabled additional proposals for decisions in the review of the amendments on page 17, namely two proposals for additional decisions: one - a proposal for a decision of which the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is the proposer. We will best discuss the proposed conclusions in a row and there are five. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and put the proposed additional decision of the proposer - the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy - to the vote. We're voting. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the first additional decision has been adopted. Below two, a proposal for an additional decision was made by a group of Members with a first-signed Davorin Terčon. The proposal was completed by Ferry Horvath. His mother's working body supports him. At the time of the meeting, however, an amendment was tabled on the proposal for a second decision, the amendment being submitted by Mitja Gaspari. Did you get this amendment on the bench? [[You are.]] Thus, we will first vote on the amendment and then on the second decision of the proposalers of the Group of Members with the first-signed Davorin Terčon. I'm putting an amendment to the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are voting on the amendment of Mitja Gaspari. We're voting. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to the additional decision of the Members, with the first signed by Davorin Tarchoon, has been adopted. We are now voting on a second decision. We're voting. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the second additional decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the proposal for an additional decision that you received today on the bench, which is the proposal for mags. Majde Purity for the parliamentary group United List of Social Democrats - under 1. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. When I ask you to support the two proposed decisions, however, let me point out that they have grown out of a clear awareness of the necessity of adopting legislation that allows us to fulfil everything that has been said on behalf of the credibility of the State and the promises made today and also what is necessary in connection with the harmonisation of legislation for the possibility of joining the European Union. So this is one piece of the medal. However, the second part, which also stems from and supports it, is simply that in the marriage text in several places it is possible to read about security concerns or the purpose of ensuring more coherent regional development and the forms of active employment policy to bridge those problems that will arise when duty-free shops are closed. However, the purpose of these two conclusions is this: to make promises somewhat more binding and more concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u89	With regard to the intention of these proposals for additional conclusions, everyone could probably agree very much, is grateful and positive; and I believe that the second proposal is also realistic and feasible, while the first proposal is not sufficiently consistent with existing legislation in Slovenia in our view. It would be a little more consistent if it were for state-owned companies, but because it is privately owned companies, the existing legislation in Slovenia is designed differently and otherwise to approach prestructuring. I believe that, insofar as the matter would be implemented in the way you propose, it would also not be consistent with the European Community's approach to restructuring and regional development programmes. Therefore, despite agreeing with intent, I think we can support the second conclusion, but the first is not consistent enough, and I personally, at least, will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Bavcar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the debate on the law, this proposal was the subject of debate on those articles in which we are talking about regional aid, state aid, employment and so on; the real consequences of the transformation of free-of-customs shops are the real consequences. At the time, it was found that the government could not prepare restructuring programmes under the applicable legislation, this was the duty of companies. The government supports or does not support such programmes and helps to finance them, and in accordance with state aid legislation, companies must do so themselves. In this case, I see the possibility for the National Assembly to support the second proposed decision, which in some ways also includes the intention of the first decision. In this case, the government will continue to monitor everything that will happen in this area and businesses will have to prepare specific programmes if the consequences are to be such. So, no matter what I think about the possible consequences, and I think that much will not have to be done, I think it is right that we are aware of the existing legislation, which, of course, cannot impose on the government, through state aid, to prepare a restructuring programme for a private enterprise.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the first and second proposals for additional conclusions? Because he does not want me to put to the vote first the first proposal for an additional decision. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision under number 1 has not been adopted. I am putting to the vote a second proposal for an additional decision. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the second additional decision has been adopted. Last but not least, the proposal for an additional decision was also proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jožet [[You have this proposal on your desks.]] . Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u93	This topic is the subject of negotiations in two chapters, in Chapter 25 on customs union and Chapter 26 on external economic relations. The negotiating points for both chapters have been approved by Parliament or the competent committee for international relations, and in both chapters the guidance you propose in the decision is part of our negotiating position. We are also reopening negotiations on these two chapters because of the law we are enacting. Our questions or our position are not changing. What we are trying to achieve is either the entry into force of free trade agreements or the modification of the now discussed association and stabilisation agreements between the European Union and the countries with which we have such free trade agreements introduced or signed and ratified, enabling Slovenia to make trade regimes more favourable. The decision, as proposed, is essentially narrowing down our room of manoeuvre, because it is only on our way to reading, I will say what is written in these agreements, while the content can to a large extent be applied differently. I wanted to say that this decision makes it difficult for us to negotiate and that, given the intention which is not different, the government has proposed this same position in the negotiating points for both chapters - I propose that the National Assembly does not accept this, but that it may, of course, confirm the negotiating points of Slovenia and that the negotiating group be given a mandate in one of the discussions on the Committee on International Relations in this direction, which I think we will discuss in a short time on this working body of Parliament. So the government doesn't think this decision is useful.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u94	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u95	So, a slightly different opinion than I had heard before it was written. I think that, however, this conclusion certainly does not revive negotiating points, because negotiating points are the subject of another topic. However, in the context of the law that we have just adopted, it may be only good that we are aware that trade with successor countries of the former SFRJ is one of those of exceptional importance for the Slovenian economy. I also expect and hope that under the current circumstances the ZZRJ will still be able to sign such a bilateral agreement before the entry into the European Union and this is expected to be a large part of the Slovenian economy; one that is now closely linked or closer to the economy of the Federal Republic. I see no reason why this decision should not be supported and thus, in fact, further reinforced and the efforts of negotiators to exercise the positions it has. This was also the opinion of the colleagues who signed the decision. For we estimate that we will still benefit from this market, even when we enter the European Union and when we meet even more difficult business conditions than we have seen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We don't differ in goals. All I'm saying is that this is a topic that is always worth the attention of the competent working body in Parliament, that we decide there on the basis of analyses, that this discussion is always in depth and that we have tried in a very transparent way to always explain exactly where we are at this point. Why is that narrowing us down? Because it strictly adheres to signed agreements. We are also trying to achieve certain goals in this way, as I said, by changing the policies of the Member States of the European Union or the European Union towards countries in the Balkans. And despite the fact that Slovenia today exports more than two thirds of its goods to the European Union market, of course, the open market, with what happened at the end of the war in the Balkans, is extremely important and we do not deny it. Some of our most important trading partners, such as Croatia, are from this area. So I think that this space may be less suitable for such decisions and this law precisely because, in any case, as you all know, the Committee on International Relations is empowered to speak very specifically and confirm our negotiating points and nothing that is important to include in the negotiations can pass through the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I shall put the proposed additional decision to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u99	We're moving on to 12. TIME OF DAY - This is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Minister Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u100	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the National Assembly is considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Second Treatment Social Protection Act. The basic purpose of the adoption of the Act is to raise monetary social assistance from 23,071 tolars, as is today the monetary allowance for an adult single person, to 37,943 tolars. In its first hearing, in June 2000, the National Assembly fully supported the bill and instructed the Government as a proponent to further examine some of the proposed solutions. The Government has thus taken fully into account the views of the National Assembly adopted at first reading and the comments made by the Secretariat for the Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly in the drafting of the draft law for second reading. The necessary amendments were included in the text of the first law, the draft law for the second reading was placed in several places and also made some technical and editorial improvements. The government also proposes several amendments to the proposed text, of which three are the most important: the 1st amendment, which proposes a new amount of the basic amount of minimum income in the past year, taking into account the increase of the amount of EUR 34,842 to EUR 37,943; the 2nd amendment, which allows the existing scheme of subsidies, rents and social housing to be maintained until the new housing regulation. Since the proposed law was not adopted until 1.1.2000, as provided for in its text, it is also important to amend the amendment providing for the second date of application of the law. The Government foresees that the provisions of the law, as envisaged, will be enforceable from 1.10.2001. The other amendments proposed represent a more precise regulation of certain procedural issues, most of which are entirely editorial in nature. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act in the second reading and that it also adopt all amendments proposed by the Government, since it is no longer possible for beneficiaries of social security benefits without the increase of this financial social assistance to be provided with the means of decent survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. The Chairman of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the proposer! At its first regular meeting on 12.1., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection submitted to the National Assembly in the second reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The initial explanation for the bill was given to the members of the committee by Minister Vlado Dimovski and Mrs State Secretary Apohalova, Mrs Lidija Apohalova, in a very similar or similar content as you had heard earlier, so I would not refer to and repeat these topics from the report. The members of the Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Secretariat, which notes that the material for the second reading is prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the applicant has taken into account all the views adopted by the National Assembly in the first reading of the draft law. The secretariat also did not comment on the proposed material in terms of compliance with the Constitution. In the debate, however, the members of the Committee mainly justified the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. The debate was held in a slightly more detailed or longer period of time, mainly in the case of Article 22. This Article lays down the date by which this Act is to be applied. They considered that this date should be postponed to an earlier date. Government representatives, of course, argued why they had set or proposed this date in the sense that, in order to enforce this law after its adoption - of course, the third reading must stop - a number of sub-laws must be adopted and more than that, in order to implement this law in practice, it is also necessary to re-establish logistics within the Centre for Social Work. The Committee's meeting was followed by the members of the Committee to identify the amendments tabled by the Government and to support all amendments. However, the Committee has not drafted its amendments. In this law, it is necessary to say that, certainly in our committee, we would like to consider, in this mandate, the legal matter which would be at least as well prepared as this, because this can be done quickly and qualitatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u104	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the government, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party, we are glad that this law is before us today because it has been drafted and formed by the previous government to this extent. We are also pleased that the current government has continued this text and upgraded it only in editorial terms. At the same time, we need to note that this period in which the marriage will begin or enter into force is too long. The Government proposes 1.10.2001. However, we know that this text of the law and these solutions extend the circle of social beneficiaries and also raise the amount of this money aid. We are of the opinion that this law must be enforced as soon as possible, because it is the weakest social strata of the Slovenian population and thus also to provide assistance to this particular layer that it needs yesterday, not tomorrow and not 1.10.2001. The Government's excuse or argument, if it has to draw up a number of sub-laws and also to establish logistics, seems unfounded to me, especially from the following. The law in such a text and with such agreement has been in such a form for a long time and the State, to the extent possible, and the Government, to the extent it wishes, would have prepared or prepared such acts and would not have waited until the law had been adopted. Logistics could also take place in parallel and could be established in parallel and I do not see what is said to be formal and we do not see anything in these arguments in the SDS, but we see another argument leading the government to such deadlines of entry into force. This is mainly a patchwork of the budget at the expense of the poorest layers of the Slovenian population. It is about consolidating public finances and starting with the payment of larger state aids as soon as possible. We do not agree with this, of course, so we have also tabled an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group, which is a compromise, and partly takes into account the Government's arguments, but partly not. In order to enter into law, this means that it would enter into force and practice from 01.07.2001. Please, and in the Social Democratic Party, we ask all Members and Members that, at the expense of those socially poorest layers, they listen to this and to confirm the amendment that would give effect to the law as of 01.07.2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Do they want a word from another parliamentary group? Here you go, Mrs. Danica Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the UK Group, we fully support the proposed amendments to the Act on Complements of the Social Protection Act, which we have before us in second reading. And the reason for that is something. This law, with amendments and additions, in particular those mentioned at the outset by Mr Minister, thus harmonising or raising the minimum amount for survival, which, according to the country's assessment, still represents in the Republic of Slovenia, in fact puts us at the heart of almost ten years ago. If in 1992 it was still considered that in the Republic of Slovenia there was an agreement that the guaranteed salary represented 40% of the average wage, which, of course, would also be the basis for a decent survival for a human being, given that the discretionary right to coordinate the guaranteed wage, on which all payments of social security allowances were based, this guaranteed payment was very cautiously raised or, in its view, retained in a wise manner. That is why scissors or ranges have changed greatly, to the detriment of the most socially endangered groups in our country and, of course, individuals. The proposal that we now have in mind, this step, of course, narrows down these scissors and puts them on about that ratio. Or if you want to say, say, in the parable of European numbers, now 70% of the minimum income is actually 70% of this minimum wage. A little less, a few percent are still missing, but this puts us back in the context of such a social state compared to the social states and what is enshrined in the Constitution. That is why we will support all the amendments proposed by the government in the United List of Social Democrats. At the same time, I would like to point out one more thing. We will also support the opinion and the position that the law should begin to be implemented with the deadline proposed by the Government. However, not because we might want to avoid more than 30,000 beneficiaries who are entitled to the benefit under this heading, but because it is in a law that sets very strict criteria, and otherwise - which we do not like most - in a certain segment, regardless of the property situation, however, it reduces the rights and accessibility of everyone to this law, it is necessary to make precise criteria in three segments. If you look, if you are so correct, you will find that, although the previous government has already put the proposed text for first reading into the procedure in early 2000 and proposed the introduction of the law starting in 2001. So, for the process, let's say six months and then six months for the preparation of submarital acts. And here is the exact same principle and rule: if we are still in the third reading today in February - no, January - and then, of course, it is six months to complete these extremely difficult - and I think that you are all aware, including those who have led this ministry for the past six months - that these acts of law are extremely difficult. So, in the United List of Social Democrats, we will also support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law because it is a very good basis for the implementation of the government strategy and the government's programme to combat poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Brenčič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the SLS + SKD Group, we support the adoption of the law, as this law establishes time and cost-of-life appropriate levels of monetary assistance for those who are not allowed to have income or are too low for such or other reasons in order to ensure a bare survival. In addition, the basic bill and, in addition, the Government's amendments to the draft law for the second reading of this Act establish criteria, which is very important to us, and the conditions for determining the beneficiary's status as a beneficiary of financial social assistance, while it is important to take account of the applicant's property status when determining both the beneficiary's status and the level of the aid itself. In the parliamentary group, we are committed to putting this novel into effect as soon as possible, but the date on which the law enters into force should be fixed enough to make the law as it is, even in practice, implement it. We believe it is good that this date is as early as possible, but at the time of the third reading it will be possible to make a very clear and sober assessment of what that date is, and given that Article 22 is open in second reading - of course, if we adopt the amendment - the article remains open as such and can be corrected in third reading, as regards the application of this law in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues! We are pleased that we have read in the report on the bill of the Health Committee in fact that the purpose of the proposed bill is to raise money aid in the area of social protection. Of course, we could also speak about the level presented, as reflected in this proposal, but I will not repeat my speakers. In fact, I would like to say that, in addition to supporting the law in any way, we will also support the proposal mentioned by Mr Mag. A visor. I'd like to say one thing. If we are again, I apologize, for the various laws for which good is reduced or fast procedures concern more the European Union and other people than Slovenia, it seems to me that this national assembly and the proposer could hurry even when it comes to the welfare of Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Any other groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote on the proposal. Presence! [[49 present.]] [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the amendment review of 29.1.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the 10 amendments to this Article. All amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting the first amendment to Article 4. Let's vote. Presence! [[52 present.]] [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. I'm putting a second amendment to the vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[54 present.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. I'm putting the third amendment to the vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[55 present.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[54 present.]] [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. I'm putting the fifth amendment to the vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[55 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the sixth amendment. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[55 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the seventh amendment. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[53 present.]] [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the eighth amendment. Presence! [[54 present.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We vote on the ninth amendment. Presence! [[55 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on the 10th amendment. Presence! [[55 present.]] [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 4 as a whole. Presence! [[56 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Article 4 is fully adopted. We're moving on to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? We have an amendment to Article 10, a group of Members, the first to sign Sugar France. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u112	In the third indent of Article 10, the current text states that the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Protection and other health care providers shall provide information on health or disability to the Centre for Social Work. I do not go into, I would say, a senseless dictatorship that the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health provide this information because these two institutions do not have any concrete data on a particular patient or a specific candidate for social assistance. The data relevant to the Centre for Social Work are, in fact, only for healthcare professionals, or more specifically, for a personally selected doctor or for those institutions which have obtained this information from the selected personal physician. However, only the text is not harmful, so it can remain so. I'd only touch the second part of the sentence that says "health status data." Of course, that's all the data. And if this text is valid as it is, then the social work center will be able to request a personal file or the entire patient file from the selected personal physician. This would be a strange practice, a strange precedent, because, in accordance with the Data Protection Act and even as far as practice is concerned, no one has an insight, no one has a right to all the health data of a particular person, no one, only an expert on the basis of the application or request of the court or the investigating authorities that have the authority to do so. See, even among themselves healthcare providers exchange only relevant, only essential data. Even when the disability commission of the pension and disability insurance institution treats and assesses the patient’s disability or disability and decides on disability, on the allowance for assistance and services and the like, it must be satisfied only with relevant data on the current disease or medical condition if this affects his disability or disability. Because this file contains not only relevant medical information, but everything possible, even sometimes for a patient very unpleasant things, such as the history of childhood, that his father beat him or that he may have been separated three times, had abortions, might have been treated for alcoholism in young years, possibly attempted suicide and so on - these are data that are of no importance to the social work centre, and for a patient, if he gets them in the hands of someone else, they are very humiliating or very unpleasant. I think that a patient who is a candidate for social assistance is already humble enough to ask for social assistance and admits that he belongs to another property class, that he does not have to be humiliated until the end by allowing the Centre for Social Work to access fully all the data stored in the health record. For this reason, we have proposed that the diction in this respect should only be completed, namely that it is only those health data that affect the assessment of disability or disability. This term is known in health care, it is known which data is this, and whenever a social work centre requires such a dictatorship or information with such a dictatorship, it will be known which data are these. And I think that's quite enough for the work of the center. As for the rest of the amendment, I'd like to ask the mag. A trifle for further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u113	Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. To complement my fellow Member. In order to enable the social work centre to adequately provide the beneficiaries with this form of social assistance and to have relevant data for this, we have therefore proposed that the fourth indent be supplemented by data on the level and type of disability. This refers to the database held by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. And in the sixth indent of the same paragraph, to add the text "on disability of persons under the provisions of the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities". This refers to the indent referring to the databases held by the Slovenian Employment Institute. This will, of course, make it possible and more appropriate to decide on social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Here you go, Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I'll replicate it to you. First of all, as far as personal data is concerned. I would be very happy to accept this amendment by Dr. Tsukati, if I were not then another article that speaks, that is 11, which speaks to who in the social field can get this information. So it's an ulcer. It is said that this makes no sense for us to vote that we must not look into medical documentation. Because those who work there, even with paper, are not like doctors, but I think that social workers are also the sons of Hippocrates, so to speak. That's what you say, I can't see, and that's why I'm going to vote against it. Second, I don't know, there's one possibility, the other is disability. We're not talking about disabled people, we're talking about those who can or can't work. We're talking about social assistance, it's not just people with disabilities, it's not just working or working. These are the others. So I suggest that this amendment is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go. Secretary of State of Apohalov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u118	A respected choir! The Government does not support this amendment because, in our view, this would make the work of social work centres significantly more difficult, and it would also burden the parties, both on time and financially, to the extent that they themselves should obtain different data and then bring them to social work centres. And for some of these data or certificates to pay as well. The amendment would, of course, be acceptable if this article and the right to obtain data from other databases, in this case, from databases of healthcare providers, only referred to the issue of the granting of social assistance. Then, of course, this data would be sufficient, as proposed in the amendment. However, the article refers to the right to obtain data on all services and tasks performed by social work centres. This is certainly not just a decision on social security aid. The scope of the tasks of social work centres is significantly broader, they also provide various services of public service, personal assistance services, assistance to families, assistance at home, assistance in housing for the elderly, in the identification of eligibility for assistance at home, assistance in the provision of a place in protective work centres, etc. In addition, they carry out a number of tasks under other legislation, such as criminal law, under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, for example, carrying out educational measures over minors, and participate in the implementation of conditional sentences with protective supervision. So the cycle of these tasks is that it is doubtless necessary for many of them to have data on the health status of a particular user or customer at the social work centre. If the amendment was adopted, then the data centre would not be able to obtain this information from healthcare providers, but should, in each particular case, send the customer to bring this information to himself. If the party did not bring them, the question of the performance of certain tasks would be how this could be done at all. However, it is likely that some parties, such as many sick and elderly ones, would not be able to commit themselves to bringing such information to the centres. We therefore believe that the arrangements we have proposed are appropriate. We believe, however, that the interests of the parties are also adequately protected. The law itself obliges all workers at social work centres to professional secrecy, and they are also bound by the Personal Data Protection Act, which has a special regime in place with regard to health data, and even if such a solution as we have proposed is to be adopted, the social work centres will have to request written consent of the data subject before obtaining such data from other databases. In our view, it is certainly more appropriate to use such a system when we request a written consent from the user to obtain this information than to instruct the customer to bring this information to the centre itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u120	Well, all I have is a replica of the performance of Mrs. Secretary of State. There's no way for a person to look for that data on their own. This article makes it clear who is providing information to the Centre for Social Work. It is said that this is only about the relationship between health care and the social work centre. Under this Article, the healthcare service is obliged to provide this information free of charge. It's all good and it's all right. Just what to understand under this data, however, I would like to explain that this is a very broad concept, that it would be good to be aware that, for the first time, it is not just a broad concept that concerns a set of data needed and unnecessary for social work and that data that is very personal and delicate in nature, and that it would be a precedent for an institution to have full access to all data. That's not what it was until now. Other institutions that treat patients at other levels do not have access to this. And if the dictatorship is not changed, as we suggest, be aware that we will deal with this request once again, on the basis of the constitutional court's request. You just mess with data like this, but you can't do personal data.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since there is no more debate, I am putting an amendment to Article 10. Let's find out who's here! [[60 present.]] [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I shall put a full Article 10 to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that Article 10 has been fully adopted. We're looking at Article 18 and the government amendment. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are voting on the amendment to Article 18. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; the article is completely amended. Article 20 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are under consideration. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to debate, we vote. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still vote on the 20th Article in its entirety. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The Article was fully adopted. We're discussing a new article 21a. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to, we vote. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The Article was fully adopted. We're moving on to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u122	President, thank you so much for your word. I am joining a colleague from a national party, Mr Barovic, on this argument, to find in this national assembly significantly different, less important matters that we are taking after swift, faster procedures than this. With this amendment, we want, this is said in the Social Democratic Party, if not the other party, to somehow oblige the government to take a faster and more intensive approach to the implementation of this law, so we propose a second amendment on 1.7.2001 as the date of the entry into force of the law. We believe that this is long enough because it is almost a half-year or a five-month period in which I think that if the government had already joined the new mandate, this would be fully feasible. That's why I don't think logistics and submarital acts are a valid reason. But I would like to point out that we are not talking about anyone, we are talking about the socially weakest layer of Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Minister, Dr. Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u124	Yes, thank you very much. We, too, join efforts to say so, to implement laws as quickly as possible. We are, above all, the government, after a discussion on the Committee, has carefully considered all the tasks that need to be carried out in order to implement this law. Let me remind them that there is something, some number of tasks required to implement this law. However, I would also mention to honourable Members and Members some of these tasks that need to be carried out, so that at least about what is necessary to take account of the full implementation of this law. In particular, it is the preparation of regulations where it is necessary, firstly, to identify savings and assets; secondly, it is the rules on the determination of income from activities; thirdly, it is the rules for determining income from agricultural activities, where the issue of cadastral incomes to be taken into account when calculating for the allocation of social assistance is the rules on content, form, form and role; and fifthly it is the rules on databases which are very diversified, as you have already said before, and which is also discussed earlier. At the same time, it is necessary to approach the information system in approximately 400 days with all these data, data links and so on. We went to look very specifically at what would be necessary for a particular part of this preparation of the information system. Together, like I said, 400 days, more precisely 388 days after our calculations, which need to be invested in the preparation of the information system. By pointing out here that certain resources for the implementation of this information system would only be available by the adoption of this year's budget. Secondly, the state of competence of professional workers at the centres for social work and at the office of work is thus far inadequate as regards the implementation of this law, so that we can approach it; the proposal is already in place. Most of these obligations resulting from this law are already being implemented in some way. So we've already approached this before we've accepted this second part. By summarizing the scope of the tasks needed to prepare the information system - only training of CSD workers and of course it takes time for the office to work. We will try to do this as soon as possible, so the government does not support this proposal from Ambassador Andrej Visiak or the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment on the first statement that the Ministry has to draw up a regulation on the determination of property. It will not be possible to draw up this Regulation or because it will not be able to obtain data until other things are regulated, in this country, such as the land book and many other matters related to the identification of assets. So I doubt that this will work, even until 01.10.2002, I doubt that it will work. But this amendment, which says that the law is starting to apply with 01.07.2001, is called the Social Democratic Party Amendment, I think it is also possible to understand that, to the extent possible, only from 1.10.10, people have the right to get the difference paid back from 01.07. This interpretation, I think, would also endure and achieve the purpose of the amendment and also achieve the purpose of why we have proposed an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that in a social state it is possible to lay down as a criterion that some of the rights that we set out and agree on in the first article are then devalued in some way by citing ourselves to the information system. I am well aware of the Ministry of Labour and I hope that preparatory work can be done to implement this law by 1 July. Indeed, the fact is that there are people working on it if they are still there, and of course I believe that they would be able to do so. If they're possible, I don't know, human resources at this point, they've rejected these procedures lately, that's another question, but then that's what you have to say. In short, I would like to reiterate and support my colleague Visiak. Because these people with 22,000 tolars a month really can't live. Let us, as it is appropriate, do our work responsibly and support this change so that they can receive increased social assistance at least a little earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. That's all I'd answer. The team that's been working on this before is continuing its work. I must say that when we discussed on the committee, we consulted thoroughly on the possibility of implementing this law with this team working on it. Therefore, we have also drawn up such a proposal as to how and how this can be done. The outcome of this agreement is what I said earlier about the possibility of the full implementation of this law. So there were no human resources changes in this segment. Let me also make sure that the focus is, above all, to strengthen this information sector, which will, of course, be difficult with the constraints we now have in the budget. However, I hope that this sector will be strengthened by some additional professional people, so that we can do this as soon as possible. However, for the time being, we can guarantee the implementation of this law within the time limit we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u132	However, I would ask the Minister to comment on this possibility that, in the event that he imposes an amendment for 1.7.2001, and in fact for the technical reasons that you state, payment cannot be made, even in accordance with this application, and that payment, for example, would occur later after 1.10., is the amendment in conflict with the provision of the 1.7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I think that today there has been a real burning situation of many citizens who are at the minimum of living. Nevertheless, I would like to point out the following. Today we are doing so and so in the second reading of the law, and I think the point is to adopt one of the proposed amendments. There is still a third reading ahead of us, and in some ways I would appeal to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour to somehow try to get this law to the third reading as soon as possible. We also have a business opportunity to carry out a third reading at the next meeting, and by that time we have reconsidered in some way the most appropriate date so that we can effectively start implementing this law as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Since there are no debaters, we are voting on the first amendment to Article 22. Please! Presence! [[65 present.]] [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment has been adopted and, of course, the second amendment is irrelevant. We still vote on Article 22 as a whole. Please! Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] Article 22 is adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? If he does not wish, I shall put to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. Presence! [[63 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Since no one wants to, we are going to the vote. We vote on the title of the law. Please! Presence! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The title of the law was adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss the proposal? Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u136	I would only ask the representatives of the Government or the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs on behalf of the Social Democratic Party to try to prepare a draft law for third reading for the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Simsichova!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal because, in our deliberations on the Committee on Work, Family, Health, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have adopted a position with the representatives of the Government that this law should be prepared as soon as possible and that representatives fully agree. So that's how the whole committee felt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, please let us make a statement on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. We're picking up the presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is the first reading of the bill on the prevention of money laundering. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to a government representative. I'm afraid there's no one here right now. Please, let's wait a few moments. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please let us take our seats. I ask Members and Members to insert a card because we will determine the presence. 55 Members and Members are present. We're moving on to 13. Period of the Day - First defense proposal for a law to prevent money laundering. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr Stroligo, Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u141	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members! Let me just briefly present the purposes of the new law or briefly explain why the new law on money laundering prevention. The European Union and other international organisations began to regulate this area ten years ago when international standards for combating money laundering were first developed. After ten years, international institutions have started to develop new standards, some have already adopted, and some are in the adoption phase right now. This was followed by the Slovenian government, and for the first time in 1995 and 1994, the previous law on the prevention of money laundering was subsequently amended accordingly in 1995. Now, after five years, the time has come for us to redecorate this law and remake it. In doing so, we have taken into account international standards that have evolved in the meantime; secondly, we have taken into account the adoption of certain regulations and conventions that Slovenia has ratified at that time, as well as in the financial and criminal fields; and thirdly, we have also taken into account those provisions or recommendations that Slovenia has adopted in 1998 after its visit to Slovenia, the Council of Europe assessment mission has adopted and made appropriate recommendations for amendments in certain areas. All of this is taken into account in the new law and, as usual, also the five-year practice of all institutions and organisations that we are involved in the anti-money laundering system. The areas that are changing compared to the law so far - these are quite something, but in the first place, let me say that in essence the system of fighting to prevent money laundering does not change. The key items of this system remain the same, it is about complementing and improving this system. The changes are mainly at the level of the debtors, and some of the new debtors brought into this project by international acts - I am talking about notaries' lawyers, accountants, and tax advisers, and some other entity will appear. Secondly, it is a novelty in the field of decommitment with certain tasks so far, I can say, in a bureaucratic way, that too many parties have been burdened, and it may be also after five years that, in particular through sub-laws, it may be time to relieve the debtors of certain tasks, additional obligations in the area of customer identification, additional obligations and the tasks of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. These are described in more detail in the law and I do not think they need to be interpreted in particular. It is also about a new regime for the control of the implementation of these rules. To date, the Office has played a key role in this regard, and now the new law brings the decentralisation of control in this area and gives a more active role to others, so-called primary supervisors, for, of course, exercising control over their debtors also in the work relating to the law on the prevention of money laundering. Sanctions, which are now a little closer to practice, are also being reordered, the law borders between easier, medium and heavy offences and sanctions are being adjusted accordingly. New limitation deadlines have been set for offences, resulting from the fact that, unfortunately, the practice so far has shown that judges for offences within the prescribed time limits are unable to deal with proposals for the introduction of a infringement procedure. That's why almost half of them are out of date. So much for the news itself. Like I said, the system stays the same. It is about upgrading this system, with the aim of improving and more operationalising it, as well as making it possible for all institutions involved to act more quickly and more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that law at its first meeting on 10 January this year. Following a proper presentation by the proposer, he took note of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters last July, which, in the framework of the principal comments in the first place, notes that it shows the solutions envisaged for their indirect impact on the property and business area of individuals and legal persons to upgrade solutions that would prevent unjustified interference in payment operations, since it is not possible to ignore the fact that the latter, as a consequence, may also lead to the State's indemnity. With regard to the principle solutions relating to the collection and transmission of individual data and documentation, the Secretariat points out that, in terms of ensuring the protection of personal data in a more consistent manner, it is necessary to specify a framework for their scope. In addition, in view of the constitutional principle of the division of power, the question of the validity of the decisions imposing on the courts the obligation to notify certain data would be raised in order to check the possibility that at least part of the data relating to legal proceedings would be drawn directly from the criminal record. The secretariat also made a number of specific comments to each article of the proposed text and further drew attention to some minor editorial corrections and nomotechnical improvements to be included directly in the preparation of the second reading text, second reading. In the debate, the members of the committee generally supported the proposed law and, due to the complexity of the matter, they questioned the effectiveness and validation of the objectives set in practice. A question was also raised regarding the supervision or publicity of the public over the implementation of the law itself and on the effective prevention and enforcement of procedures relating to the penalties provided for. The view was expressed that greater efficiency would require the cooperation of all the factors envisaged, as only in this way could they achieve the objectives set by the law itself. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted as a suitable basis for the preparation of the second hearing, while at the same time preparing this hearing as a proposal by the Government, in accordance with the comments of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u144	Mr. President, thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? First, Andrej Vizjak, mag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u145	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Also a nice greeting to government representatives. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to limit or even eliminate these negative phenomena in our country by means of a law on the prevention of money laundering. The law builds on the 1994 law with new knowledge, both expertise and new knowledge in the implementation of this law itself. However, we are concerned about the information we have obtained from the Finance Committee, namely that since 1994, when the law on the prevention of money laundering entered into force, not one case in the Republic of Slovenia has had a judicial epilogue in criminal proceedings or has been legally proven. This means that despite possible ideal solutions in marriage we have something wrong with us. The data on offences resulting from this law are also such that they are mostly obsolete or, of course, are not being treated at all. We believe that the law itself partially regulates the prevention of money laundering, in order for the government to think about these data and to be comprehensive, by means of a system to ensure that these phenomena are properly punished in practice. That is why we think and appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that not only in these cases, including in some other cases of criminal offences, it makes crime prevention systems significantly faster or more easily experienced in everyday practice also by some epilogue. We support the law on money prevention as such, but we note this systemic flaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament and Honourable Propagandators of the Law! In the United Social Democrats Group, we find that in the proposed law it is indeed about the adoption of generally-established international standards in Slovenia, in our legal order and also more precisely defines the individual responsible institutions and the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. We also note that some very important specific objectives are being pursued in the draft law. In particular, it is also aimed at ensuring greater operationality and coherence in the field of the operation of individual taxpayers of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. It is also a very important new segment with regard to the introduction of longer limitation periods, which have also been discussed in which it can be ensured, both to supervisory authorities and to other national authorities, all the time that criminal and legal rules are made available to them to detect the persecution of illegal acts. We have found that in this law, these conceptual changes, which are somehow being introduced from 1994 to 1995, we have listened somehow to the drafter of this law, which is now being found not to be a significant increase in the budgetary expenditure of the state authorities, who are or will be responsible for its functioning. That is why we will also give all the support in our parliamentary group, saying that we will support the draft law for first reading and, of course, we mean to prepare for the second and next stages of consideration as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Does a representative of any other parliamentary group want to do this? Please, Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't repeat what's already been said. In particular, I am taking part in the opinion delivered by Mr Bizjak. It is high time that we tighten this matter in the country, that we adopt the law as soon as possible, and that we begin to work under this law. Indeed, there are many of these cases and particularly worrying ones who are somehow awaiting a final decision in court and do not move matters. I propose that the proposer speed up the work on this law so that we can get to the second reading and the final reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u151	Mr. Chairman, representatives of the government! I have carefully read this law, which is undoubtedly a great advance compared to the current law, but I have some concerns about some points. I can only say for the illustration - this is about 2 million 800,000 tolars for which identification needs to be prepared, and then the next sum is 4 million 600,000. It seems to me that this is a very high sum for Slovenia, unless the government thinks there are so many of these transactions that this poor office will not be able to do this work. For example, in the United States, every 10,000 dollar raise is immediately automatically reported by the bank, and this is not being investigated at the time, but there is a chance that the link between these transactions will be dealt with later. The second time I don't quite know where this office belongs. This is my ignorance, and I hope someone will explain it to me. I also think that the National Assembly should know a little more about this institution. Article 25 speaks of the Office reporting its work to the government at least once a year, not saying whether it is a written report or just something else. The National Assembly should be included here in any way. In principle, the New Slovenia Party supports this law, but I would like to see this law get even more teeth than it has, and it would be good to hear before the second hearing why no criminal proceedings have been completed in such a time. This is amazing, and with all the scandals we have already had, smuggling, etc., it is amazing that this office would not be able to do something more useful for our society. If we do not get sufficient basis or explanation, then one would think that this office is not functioning well and that it will need to be reorganized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? If this is not the case, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one has applied in writing, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. Wait, please, Director Stroligo has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Only briefly, on the issues raised in this debate. I think it must be clear that the law on the prevention of money laundering, both current and new, does not interfere with the work of the judiciary. This area of work is governed by other laws, other laws govern whose tasks and what crimes are a priority for the prosecutions and the courts. The fact that, unfortunately, we do not have any legal judgment in this area after six years is true: it is not free and it is not condemned; it is certainly not, when I say, the result of this bad law to prevent money laundering. Nor does the new law in this area provide for significant innovations. It intervenes in the field of prevention and intervenes in the field of detection, not in the field of trial. That has to be clear. The other thing that is. The amounts set out in this Act are two million eight hundred and four million sixths, to say that it is likely that the government with amendments to this amount, with the amendment in the second reading, will raise slightly further because they are based on the amounts of the European Union, which are uniform in the European Union Directive, the first amount - two eight hundred - of the amount of fifteen thousand "equipments" and that amount is the limit for all European countries that monitor certain transactions that are also suspected at the level of Automatism. Here, of course, is the difference between the system in force in the United States, as well as in Australia and some other countries, where this amount is mainly directed at the equivalent of $10,000. Let me say that the Office currently receives around 140 such transactions above four million sixths a day, so that it is able to address these data by automated transmission. The reason why we should go to the lower amounts is that we also have a way of reporting suspicious transactions that are going through and is, I think, good, we don't see. At this stage, as I say, the amounts are based on the comparative amounts in the European Union, which are set out in the Directive. The office belongs to the Ministry of Finance. This is a body within the Ministry of Finance, like many other state authorities. According to logic, these authorities generally report to the minister, exceptionally reporting directly to the government because of the importance of this work, because it interferes with the work of several ministries, it has already been written in the law so far to report to the government office. This has already been done six times, every year at least once, and we are in the process of preparing the seventh report, which will also be linked to the press conference, so that certain data will, of course, be made available to you, both to the media and to the Bureau's website - I think we will be able to present them within the time frame immediately after the government reception. This is a written report to the government, I apologize, that was also a question. Just a moment, I think it was all. Well, I would like to say so much more that, given that the new directive of the European Union currently being read in second reading has, while the law was ready for first reading, brought some news, I would like to inform this national assembly that the government will, of course, incorporate this novelty in the form of amendments directly, so that, once this directive has been adopted, our law will not be rectified once again. So we'll just try to be on the running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Please, please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I would allow myself a replica, but not in a substantive sense, not in the criticism of the comment that the chairman of this office has made, but in the purpose that he has stated, but in the light of the fact that no case has yet been reached by a judicial epilogue in the legal form, that it is not a matter of this law and so on. I agree with you, but as the chairman of this office, or also as the author or proposer, to the representative of the proposer of this law, we are probably laying this down, in the sense that if we produce certain laws and adopt them here, then it must be made sense to lead to the goal, but not to accept them so that we adopt them, and then we have done something and the matter is done. Every law must have a purpose and I understand the purpose of this law in terms of preventing money laundering, as it is addressed. And I warned you that this is certainly not a matter of this law, that it is a series of systemic measures that lead to this. That is why, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have also appealed to you as a representative of the government to reach, through the Minister directly, in the government, that the government is aware of the issue of inefficiency in the implementation of this law. Because I personally believe that there is no criminal offence in seven years, I do not believe that this has not been the case in practice. I believe that a number of procedures have been initiated and no one has ever experienced an epilogue. He is talking about likely shortcomings in some other laws, but: since your goal or our goal is to prevent money laundering, it is also our task to warn those responsible within the government to do everything they can to ensure that the purpose of this law is also achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you. Dr. Bernick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Just a few questions, and I hope you'll be patient with me, because there are some things I don't understand. I would like to know how big your office is in this sense, how many people it has and what kind of budget it has. Secondly: if your office were or was successful in the pursuit of money laundering, if it were from this money, which then must be paid and so on, or even those who do not report and so on. If a percentage of this were to go to your office, would it accelerate work and research? And I don't see any other things in the law that are totally normal around the world, and that's what happens to people who have information and don't fall under the definition of this law, but they tell the office what kind of protection they have -- maybe another law already deals with it, maybe criminal law, I don't know -- but what kind of protection would they have: whether they get any privileges or some money or anything like that. I have seen a series of laws, not so much in Europe, but elsewhere where this is specifically mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Stroligo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Office systemisation currently in force [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u160	Mr. Stroligo, please, if you'll stand up because we're talking about standing up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u161	Excuse me! New space, new habits. The current systemisation of the Office shall set up 15 posts, including the post of Director. Currently there are 14 of us, over a year and a half of us are 14 employees. The current budget was about 700,000 marks of money equivalent, all in total: salaries, computer science, complete. The area that you mentioned that part of the money that is seized in these matters - this temporary money seized - is very large in money laundering matters, at least in terms of the situation and remains a crime - that part of this money should go for the purpose of the work of the Office or for the purposes of other organisations involved in this project and institutions. I must say that this area is relatively new in Europe too, that there are no standards in this area yet; that the Council of Europe intends to elaborate on this issue this year what the standards for the sharing of money seized by criminal associations and criminals, among the authorities involved in this process or other - civil spheres - for all those who help do so; I think it is an area to be regulated in Slovenia in the future, not in this law, but probably with the law on the availability of funds when they are finally seized. Of course, the candidates for these funds are much more than I say, it is not just the office that ripped, there is the police, the prosecution, the financial institutions, the supervisory authorities and all those who have certain costs with the implementation of this law. As I say, it is worth waiting for at least some uniform standards for the sharing of these funds to be adopted in Europe. And, of course, it is also an additional issue of the allocation of funds with other countries. In this area there are many seizures on the basis of data from another country, and in this area neither Slovenia nor most European countries have any rules governing what criterion these funds are shared. As I say, this will probably have to be settled with the law once in the future, not in this law. People who report: either anonymously, either by name or by personal offence to the Office - the Office does not have the authority to accept such data and, on the basis of these data, to use the powers set out in this Act. The Criminal Procedure Act is the one that provides that all offences, including money laundering offences, must be reported to the State Prosecutor's Office and the police. Which means that in cases where the Office receives from a debtor not prescribed in this law an initiative, proposal, complaint, including documentation, it shall refer it to the police or to the State Prosecutor's Office. So because, as I say, the office is not competent to start doing this, and this applies equally to all the offices that are set up and which have the same structural structure as our office around the world. The Office is a kind of financial intelligence unit, which means that it deals with data, with data analysis, but not with acceptable data from persons, of all those who are already obliged by other regulations to give such data to other authorities. However, the Office has the power to obtain this information, if it has an open case itself, such as money laundering, and this information can be obtained upon request either from the police or from the State Prosecutor's Office or other state authorities. In practice, where such matters are concerned, the Office shall, as a rule, cooperate with this power to deal with such matters. So much for more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you, for your word. If you don't mind, I'd just like to add one more question, because we have a director here and I'd like to ask him how many of these tips have been made, these applications over the past four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u164	Please, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u165	Perhaps a more question for the report on the Office's work, as I say, which will follow for the year 2000. All I can say is that the office has opened four hundred cases in these years, six years. In these four hundred cases, there were thousands and thousands of suspicious transactions reported by the debtors. Approximately 70% of these cases have already been dealt with by the Office, so it has finished its work. Of these 70% in about six years, 30% of the data was released to the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with the conditions laid down in this Act. Currently, 27 police criminal charges have been filed in Slovenia in six years due to suspicion of major money laundering offences. The four cases are in the stage of a legal indictment, and one case is in the stage of the appeal to the first instance judgment. I think there are seven of them in the legal investigation phase. So much for this statistic, which is to say not only the Office's statistics, the Office also maintains all-Slovenian statistics of other authorities in this area. So let me give you about one more piece of information: until now it has been temporarily seized only in money laundering in Slovenia about 22 million and a half German brand of money. Only because of the suspicion of money laundering!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law on money laundering prevention, first of all, is a suitable basis for drafting a bill for second reading." Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, we vote. Presence! [[59 present]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and written in the report of the working body, as well as the debate on No, excuse me! [[...]] Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The position was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the amendments to the report on economic companies, companies or institutions, to which the first paragraph of paragraph 20 applies. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the management of public function with a gainful activity shall be subject to a prohibition of business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the representative of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The home working body shall propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the Management of Public Function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to a prohibition of the operation with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want a word? Since it does not want to, we are moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on Short-Term Work. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I shall put the motion to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. Let's find out who's here! [[57 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. Please! Presence! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. Please! Presence! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. Please let us vote. Presence! [[59 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. Let's find out who's here! [[60 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the encouragement and mutual protection of investments, with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. That motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Lithuania. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the law before the initiation of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. We're voting. Presence! [[61 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. We're voting. Presence! [[61 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the protection of the requirements of workers in the case of the insolvency of their contractor. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. We're voting! Presence! [[62 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. We're voting. Presence! [[61 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for amendments and additions by the Member of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. A proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure was submitted to the assembly by the MEP. Andrej Vizjak. Does the proposer want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u167	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. The Institute of Parliamentary Affairs is extremely important for the position of a Member as well as for the relationship between Parliament and the Government. This is how Members express their control over the work of the government and the ministries. Since a certain position on government and individual ministers can also be drawn on the questions sent, the question is also a means of asserting the responsibility of the government and the individual minister. Therefore, for some time now, there has been a consistent practice in the National Assembly to answer the first three questions raised by the opposition Members by the Prime Minister as the highest representative of the executive branch. With this addition to the Rules of Procedure, we will properly regulate the escaped practice in the Rules of Procedure. The second part of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure concerns amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure with regard to the coordination of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions relate to the constitutional right of the State Council to submit its opinion on the draft law or on the requirements under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.The new arrangement will allow the State Council to present its opinion within a reasonable time frame of 48 hours. Amendments and additions shall relate only to the handling of matters other than those referred to in the previous reference to the National Assembly or to the handling of matters following a rapid and short-term procedure or in extraordinary meetings. Under the current regime, the State Council has sufficient time to deliver an opinion on the matters referred to in the previous reference. We therefore justify and justify the amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure were considered by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission on the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Commission considered the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the following extraordinary meeting. Let me once again thank the Magi's proposer. To the vision that he has complied with my request to include in the Rules of Procedure a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, I think the position or decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is also established if this proposal is adopted. The Commission agreed with the proposed amendment. It proposes to adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure together with amendments to the Commission. We have two amendments to the Commission, to Articles 3 and 5. We add to Article 3 at the end of the text "and not more than seven days", what the applicant has already mentioned and to Article 5 where we replace "the next day" with "the 15th day after publication". Let me add that an amendment to Article 1 has also been proposed by a member of the Commission, Mr Saš Pečet, who has proposed that the word "three" be deleted and thus allow all opposition groups to raise a question to the Prime Minister. The Commission did not support this amendment, it was against it, but I pointed out this because the amendment with identical content was reintroduced into the National Assembly and there is no definition of the Commission. So the Commission rejected the amendment with the same content at the meeting and did not accept it. So, we can conclude from this, and it doesn't support it. We have not received the views of the government until the meeting of the Commission, but you now have it on your desks, on your benches. The Government does not oppose the adoption of the Rules of Procedure; it does not have any comments in principle. Of course, it points out that it would be possible to better address the questions that we are asking the Prime Minister, the right questions relating to the government's work, so that the Prime Minister can answer them as well. I believe that, at least in part, this is already taken into account in this proposal by the proposer and that the comments of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters are also taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written applications, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Doesn't anyone want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the amendment proposal and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to this Rules of Procedure will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. I would also like to draw your attention to the position of the Parliament's business commission that only Members who have declared their presence before the vote may vote if the assembly decides with the two-thirds majority of the Members present. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of Saš Pečet. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to ask you when you said that you should apply before voting on what this means in practice, given that we now have a different system. I'm not messing around, but I'm really asking because it seems to me that when I have a card in this slot, I'm registered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u172	That's right. The Business Commission believes that the Member must also be present, not only that he has a card. In case someone has a card, and he's not here, please have the neighbors pick up the card. Thank you very much. First, we are considering the amendment to Article 1 tabled by Saša Peca. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on Article 1 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We vote on Article 2 in full. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We have a third section and an amendment of the commission under consideration. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are voting on the amendment to Article 3. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We still vote on Article 4 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. We have an amendment to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure Commission under consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 5. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We have the title of the law at our disposal. Anybody want to discuss the title? We note that we have not voted on Article 5 as a whole. We vote on Article 5 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] Article 5 is fully adopted. We have the title of the law at our disposal. Who wants to discuss the title of the law or the title of the Rules of Procedure? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the title of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted. We're moving to third reading. I note that some amendments have been tabled to the amendment proposal and I ask qualified applicants to submit an amendment. Before that, of course, I am asking if anyone wants to discuss the draft act in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm asking if the rules of procedure are in line. [[Yeah.]] We are moving to a full vote on the Rules of Procedure. Please let us vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 MPs.]] [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Rules of Procedure have been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The meeting will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the 22nd item of the agenda and on the agenda. Thank you very much.
