ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	I invite all colleagues and colleagues to come to the Assembly Hall so that they can start the meeting and to report their presence in the Chamber by means of a vote card. Once again, I invite my colleagues to put the ballot in the voting machine. Your Honor! Good afternoon, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think it sounds worse than it does, and I've already asked the technical services to arrange it. I will ask for some understanding, and patience, of all of us. As you know, we have changed the way we vote. You have received a notification of this and after this vote and the quorum will never again be able to vote on any misunderstandings about the presence of Members and Members. I think that this technical innovation has also eliminated our concern that any decisions would not be taken without the necessary presence. So I ask the technical services once again if they can make sure that the sound is what it was. I think that's settled already. Allow me to inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following colleagues: Victory Jelinčič, Bogdan Barovic, Rudolf Može for the start of the session, Mrs Majda Potrata, Leopold Kremjar from 3 p.m. on, mag. Zoran Gračner, Lidija Majnikfor the beginning of the session, colleague Roman Jakič from 15.30 minutes away, Lojze Peterle, Vojko Čeligoj also for the start of the session, Villa Trofenik, Leopold Grošelj and colleague Peter Levič at 5.00 p.m. Colleagues and colleagues, as you have already been informed by letter of 13 June 2001, have been added to the voting system by ensuring that the presence of each vote is undisputed. This is the first time that we will use the completed voting system in today's session. We vote by pressing the "yes" or "again" button at the time interval. An MP who does not wish to vote must press the "quorum" button if he wants his presence to be counted in individual votes. Presence is calculated from the sum "for" plus "against" plus "quorum". On the vote list, any vote "in favour" or "against" shall also mean an automatic "quorum". When only presence is detected at the meeting, press the "quorum" key [[That's number three.]] . In case you press "yes" or "against", the result is still published and your vote is counted as being present. I mean, let's take this innovation very quickly. As it is said, it is important that we ensure the necessary presence of Members and Members in any decision. So we note the presence in the hall. [[The card has to be filed, buddy Jakič.]] There are 59 Members and Members present in the Chamber. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may begin the 7th regular meeting. I have also invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Drnovska, and the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; I also welcome them very much among us. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. The log is available in the computer network. Does any of the colleagues and colleagues request an amendment or supplement have any other comment on the minutes? I guess not. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Let's vote! There were 66 colleagues and colleagues present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 12 June this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We didn't get a motion to withdraw. Anybody want a word? Yes, Comrade Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! On behalf of the parliamentary group, we propose the withdrawal of two points from today's, say, marathon agenda. Today's agenda, i.e. for a meeting of the National Assembly, is 52 points and probably only those most optimistic believe that we will end with this point within the time limit foreseen for this and that there will be no transfers to the next regular session. We propose the withdrawal of the 8th point, this is the proposal for a second reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that this proposal is being addressed, and that that proposal, which makes it impossible for the smaller group in this national assembly to hold a debate, makes it impossible to have an active and passive debate, whether it is in the form of a speech or in the form of an investment, as foreseen by the existing Rules of Procedure. We have already seen the approximate future of this in the debate on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year, where Members were denied their basic right, this is to table amendments for those changes they feel it would make sense to introduce them into this country and to help that country, on the one hand, to develop local self-government and, on the other hand, to develop society as a whole. So, unfortunately, it didn't work out at the time. That is why I appeal and hope that in this period, from the first reading of the Rules of Procedure to the present day, when the second reading of the Rules of Procedure is before us, which of the Members of the Government - the easiest thing to call you - is to contemplate over the term of democracy and to see that this State Assembly, as a substantive quorum, can only work as far as different opinions are concerned. So whether this will be in the form of extremes in a negative or positive light or in the form of easier discussions. I am convinced that the only condition for the better work of this National Assembly in the better quality part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So that he was ineligible and proposing non-quality laws, he showed a referendum that had just been carried out. However, the National Assembly could lead only in the form of, say, discipline. Therefore, in order to try to uphold our rights and responsibilities, Members should not take advantage of the existing rules of procedure. But, unfortunately, because some feel threatened, they are trying to prevent opposition Members, particularly opposition Members, from discussing even in the form of an amendment or a amendment to the Rules of Procedure or otherwise, those small constitutions. I appeal to all those who want this country to start meeting better, better solutions to which we will all contribute together, either on this side or on that side, to support the withdrawal of the Rules of Procedure, so that we can take longer and more time for the independent Republic of Slovenia to think about what to do in the interests of greater efficiency. However, I am convinced that, above all, those who support the change, and the government's opinion here, of course, we should look at ourselves on the basis of our efficiency and make this national assembly rich with those materials that would require a smaller debate and not so few materials. I propose that you support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party regarding the withdrawal of point 8. And then there's the other thing. We also propose the withdrawal of the 26th point: the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border transport and cooperation. The discussion was, of course, convincing about it, and apparently the one who has the media in his hands won. So whoever won is visible from here out, from being still a point, let's say in dealing with this agenda. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that by adopting this Agreement or ratifying it, we are showing a lack of seriousness in our requirements for an exit to the open sea, in particular as regards maritime borders or maritime borders. I propose that all those who, in this national assembly, feel basically that they are defending the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, the full interests and that they are trying to help our own country, support the withdrawal of this point and that we first meet with the so-called resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, which is scheduled for 8th today's college, that is to say the next meeting of the National Assembly. I am sure, and on the basis of the dateliness of this act in the Rapporteur of 1997 or 1998, a month or two will not play a role on such important strategic issues as this for the Republic of Slovenia and all future generations. However, it is important for Slovenia to break out, or apologize, not to break out, but to get what belongs to it. Not because of the cheap daily policy, because of the popularity rate of withdrawing the territory of the Republic of Slovenia! I propose that you also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you. I will lead the debate on your proposal and decision-making by discussing and deciding each proposal separately. This will first put to the debate and then to the decision of your proposal to withdraw point 8 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask, does the rapporteur of the parent's working body want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the candidates, first-signed colleague Anderlich? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the proposal to withdraw the 8th point of the draft agenda from the agenda. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present, the proposal of colleague Peceta supported 22 Members and Members, 45 of them opposed. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal is not accepted. At the same time, colleague Peca suggests that we withdraw the 26th item from the agenda, as you received by reference. I ask whether the rapporteur of the home working body wishes to speak. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? [[They don't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw agenda item 26 from the agenda and we are voting on this. I propose - for the first time, I ask the technical services, if they come to help - that we vote once again on the proposal to withdraw the 26th item from the agenda. We're voting. Now it's gonna be, it's gonna be okay. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 supported by the proposal, 49 opposed to it. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda has not been adopted. Do we have any other motions for withdrawal? I guess not. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The President of the Commission, under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, proposes to the Assembly that the agenda of the 7th meeting be extended by the consideration of the amendment of the report on companies, undertakings or establishments for which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the prohibition of the conduct of business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions shall apply. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There were 64 Members and Members present, 53 supported by the proposal, and 6 opposed it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The meeting will consider the amendment of the report as item 3a of the agenda. We have not received any other proposals for extending the agenda. Anyone else want a word on this? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Given that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposal by the Slovenian National Party to withdraw the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border cooperation, we propose to include in today's meeting a resolution, which was proposed by the Slovenian People's Party as a rule, before the 11th item of today's agenda. In our opinion, this resolution commits, at least a little, to certain positions, either the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the negotiating committee or the working body. All of this in order to preserve what is in this country, let us say, at this moment, given and historically, which we have increasingly less. And if we actually continue as we continue at this point, at least with, say, the rule of liberal democracy, we will end up without everything. I propose that we place the point of the resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in Istria and at sea for today's meeting. In addition, I should like to point out that we have also discussed this in a college where we have also discussed and discussed the legal basis of this act whether it fulfils or does not comply with the legal and business provisions for the inclusion on the agenda. Let me tell you that it contains the same standards or meets the same standards as point 11 that we have placed on the agenda and is in the same position. Therefore, the argument that the material is not ripe for consideration on the agenda cannot be held for the Slovenian National Party. I suggest you put this point on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	We have already consulted the College with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the proposal of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party, which proposed to include a motion for a resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in Istria and the sea at the conclusion of today's meeting. We did not include the motion for a resolution in the previous 7th session. Nor was there a business basis for such a decision, since it was not prepared by the parent's working body a proposal of views. So today, at the proposal of the same parliamentary group, we have decided to refer this point to the next meeting. He is right to point out that another item is listed on this agenda with the same business basis. Of course, I am obliged to respect the rules of procedure. I have therefore consulted before the meeting and I ask my colleague Pečet whether it is assessed that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decisions are taken on whether or not they were the reasons behind the extension after the meeting. Can you, Comrade Peca, justify that special circumstances have arisen during this period to justify such a decision by the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Look, right now you're trying to get what we talked about in college out of me. This is that it can be classified in the meeting itself if reasons have arisen in our college. Here's what I have to say. If we adhere to the principles, principles and good work of honesty in this national assembly, we must be aware that the rules apply to all the legal acts dealt with by this national assembly. And if we break them somewhere, we can break them somewhere else. In short, we violated an agreement reached at the College of the President of the National Assembly concerning the 11th item of the agenda, where business conditions were also not met. If you ask me for new moments, new moments that have arisen, I will say that from day to day the Republic of Slovenia loses compared to the Republic of Croatia. I think this is more than an important and strong argument to put the matter on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	So, the difference is that we agreed to this position at the 12th meeting of the College at the end of this month, whereas today we have not taken a decision to support the proposal by the SNS Group for the 7th, but at the next 8th meeting. I have consulted, as I say, with the competent authorities in the National Assembly on how to deal with such a proposal. I will not violate the Rules of Procedure if I put this proposal, including in accordance with practice, to the vote. Therefore, I am putting a proposal from my colleague, Mr Pečet, to the debate and I ask whether the groups of Members wish to clarify their views? Would you like to explain? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The SLS + SKD Group - Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal submitted by counterpart Pece. Today, we have also dealt in detail with some procedural issues in the Group. We believe that there are all the business conditions for today's National Assembly to decide to place this item at a meeting of the National Assembly. We are convinced that the National Assembly is ahead of a very responsible task, for some very important decisions are ahead. We have before us the ratification of the small-border agreement with the Republic of Croatia, the resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and the representatives of Slovenia are also meeting and negotiating a very important decision on these days, in the last week, in the last month, and this is the final solution to border issues with the Republic of Croatia. In this context, we assess that it would be responsible for the State Assembly to take a position on these issues by means of a resolution. Our Group of Members will support the proposal for enlargement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Anyone else want a word on this? I guess not. This is how I put this proposal to the vote. There are 76 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 21 of them voted in favour and 42 opposed the proposal. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has not been adopted. Anyone else want a word? Then we'll decide to cut deadlines. A proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is included in the reference to this meeting as point 8. In order to allow this act to be considered at the meeting of the assembly, I propose that the 30-day deadline for the submission of that material be reduced. I also propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of amendments to the proposal for an act, namely that amendments could be tabled by 13 June on the basis of an interpretation of the business commission. Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to cut deadlines. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 44 supported, 21 opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm asking representatives of the parliamentary groups, anyone want a word? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There were 59 colleagues and colleagues present, 41 votes against, 12 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. I'm asking the rapporteur if he wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There were 68 colleagues and colleagues present, 54 supported by the proposal, and 6 opposed it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a self-contribution law for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to express my agreement with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and with representatives of the Council of State who oppose the speedy procedure. We, too, believe that this is too complex and important a law in the field, not least local self-government. We will therefore oppose the speedy process and we are committed to adopting this law on a regular basis. In our view, there are all too many inadequacies. It's mostly about the last ones I'm going to try to summarize in a short time. In our view, the right to vote as a constitutional right is unsatisfyingly presented in this bill. Then we have comments on the proposed asset criteria. We have a note regarding the inclusion of legal persons engaged in activities in an area where self-contribution as self-contribution debtors is made, given that self-contribution also increases the value of their assets in this area. We have a remark on vaguely defined referendum issues, which should only concern the introduction of self-contribution, while the material or content of the contribution is left to the competent municipal council. Then there is too much confusion in the compilation of electoral directories and also in the issuance of decisions on the amount of self-contribution to the debtors and the possibility of complaints to these decisions. I would therefore like to stress once again that we will vote against the speedy process, and I also call on the others to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. Please, Mrs. Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to say that we want the proposal for a self-contribution law not to be adopted quickly because we believe that there is no reason for it. We believe that the proposal could go to a broader hearing, a broader debate, because we fear that a constitutional court could repeal the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zupan. Anyone else want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you. We will support this, the parliamentary group will support the rapid procedure, because the parent committee has discontinued the hearing after the first general hearing and called for the opinion of the local community in accordance with Article 94 of the Local Community Act and for the definition of all amendments to the law. The fact is that we do not have a law on self-contribution and it is imperative that this law, in view of the comments that will come to the National Assembly, be adopted through discussions in the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Does the government representative want to explain his position, according to the views of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. 47 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws following a reduced procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the film fund of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration; it proposes to adopt it following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't see any interest, so I'm closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least a third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 48 votes in favour, 5 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act for consideration by the Assembly; it proposes to adopt it after a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yes, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Banking Act and the changes proposed by the Government are also the subject of a major debate at the professional level. We estimate that it would be strictly wrong to address such issues in a short or fast manner and propose to the National Assembly that we open a broader debate and take the time needed for serious and smart solutions in this area. New Slovenia will vote against this proposal. We see no point in rushing in this area because we already know where it is taking us if we are going too quickly on such key issues of a professional nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to present its position? Yes, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The Social Democratic Party also opposes short-term or rapid proceedings in such an important area as the Banking Act. I hope that Sunday's referendum has given strong warning as to how our people are involved in politics and such serious issues. The plebiscite rejection of a law that was adopted in a quick procedure and so importantly cut into the values of Slovenian society should also be a warning to this national assembly to avoid actually declaring a state of war in this house when we adopt laws in accordance with the procedures applicable to war and state of emergency. Thus, the reduced procedure on the banking law is inappropriate and is contrary to the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Can you please not disturb the speakers, we will all be very grateful, especially the speakers? Is there anyone else who would like to clarify the views of the Group of Members? I guess not. Perhaps the government representative would like to present the government's opinion on these points of view as well? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Please, Dr. Bayuk. You have no right to explain again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	Well, I was just asking if you'd give it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	No, I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I would like to point out that, even this time, the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members and Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 of them in favour, 19 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the law on victims of war violence. May I ask for peace in the hall? The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Nobody wants a word. That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision. Again, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues were present, 44 supported, 3 opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups? Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a vote. Again, I am obliged to warn the National Assembly that a proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 40 votes in favour. No one objected to this proposal, so it was adopted. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other countries, successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. [[There's no debate.]] We're moving on to decision-making. I would like to point out that the proposal will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. 57 colleagues and colleagues are present. 49 were in favour, 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. He wants a representative of the government to say the word. He doesn't want to. The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the reporter of the mother's working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Nor does the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. I ask whether Members and Members wish to speak as representatives of the groups of Members. I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. The proposal will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 47 votes against, 9 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed mag. For consideration by the assembly, Andrei Viszak submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the fund for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. Does Comrade Vizjak want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Nor does the representative of the secretariat for legislation. A representative of the government? Neither do I. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision. I reiterate that the proposal will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members and Members present. We're voting. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 56 in favor and 3 in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Thus, we have exhausted all the votes and are moving on to a proposal for a full agenda. So I propose today's agenda session, as you have received by reference, and with one supplement that we have adopted. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 51 of them confirmed the agenda, 6 opposed it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. Before we go to the 1st item of the agenda after a 15-minute break, let me ask you if anyone objects that the 8th and 15th points that require a 2/3 majority should be discussed next Wednesday. I think it is right that the National Assembly on issues that require a 2/3 majority knows exactly when it is informed when it will discuss and decide on them. Does anyone object to us starting at 8:00 on Wednesday and then at 8:00 on Wednesday? [[No, no, ……]] Then I consider it accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	I apologize, otherwise I do not object, but I would like to inform you, President, as Head of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The delegation goes next week, if I'm well informed, in almost full composition in Strasbourg, so take note of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Yes, before each meeting, I try to determine when the most consonant is, especially when we have such items on the agenda. There will always be no Members and Members. However, it seems important to me that we know early enough when this point will be dealt with. I hear, buddy Jakič, that you didn't object, you just warned me. Does anyone want to object? Otherwise, I suggest that we agree with this and that we deal with points 2/3 of the majority for decision Wednesday, paragraphs 8 and 15 starting at 10 a.m. Thus, the well-respected National Assembly, we have set the agenda for this session. We will move on to questions and initiatives from Members of Parliament and Members. We will do this in accordance with the tradition 15 minutes after we now stop work. We'll continue at 3 p.m. and 5 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	It's 15 and 5 minutes. I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the main hall of the National Assembly to continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll move on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. I also welcome among us the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovska, Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all present. Let me point out that more cards have been filed than colleagues and colleagues. So I'm guessing that we're not at the end of the line right now. I invite all our colleagues and colleagues to join us. I'd like to invite my distinguished colleagues and colleagues to meet us at the hall. I think there are several colleagues and colleagues present. As we are facing innovation in voting for the first time today, I would like to point out that one of the keys, "kkorum" or "za" or "against" should be pressed so that we can actually determine the presence. The insertion of a card into a voting device is no longer sufficient today. I'm repeating my presence. Yes, but now the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is present. 51 colleagues and colleagues are at the next meeting. I didn't get the ministers' apologies. During the business period one day before the meeting, we received written statements of questions and initiatives sent. The order for asking questions and initiatives is laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the first three questions or initiatives are posed by members of the opposition, and then by a number of Members from different parliamentary groups by order of application. The order for asking the first three questions and initiatives is, as agreed by the opposition parliamentary groups, ready to take account of the principle of rotation. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question referred must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clearly visible. The oral question or initiative shall not last more than 3 minutes, and the ministers or ministers shall normally not answer more than 10 minutes. The Member's supplementary question should last for a maximum of 2 minutes. The first three questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek in accordance with the rules of procedure. The first three questions will be asked by colleagues Saša Peca, Janez Janša and his colleague Štemberger. First of all, I invite you to ask the question of the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšk, colleague of Saša Peca. Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Bush and Putin were saying good-bye from Slovenia and in terms of how beautiful this country is. And in this sense, my question will also be a question of the mission. In the sense of preserving this country as we have received it from the former SFRY. And not to destroy it or destroy the government's policy at the cost of its popularity. The Agreement of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport Cooperation, which you have given us in the procedure for which you claim to be good and that it is long-term, that it solves the problems of the Republic of Slovenia in the long term in terms of some co-existence and friendly search for relations - but unfortunately, according to the Slovenian National Party, this is a case of surrender or loss of the Slovenian exit to the open sea. Some constitutional judges also agree with us. I would like to know more about this, Mr. Drnovšek: Why do you agree to such conditions and lose the earthly integrity of the Republic of Slovenia? The Schengen Agreement provides for a smaller number of borders with the Republic of Croatia. The agreement we have before us provides for 27. We are moving away from Europe and approaching the Balkans. Is it possible that this is a new guidance from the Slovenian government? The second chapter is the Krško nuclear power plant. Look, you didn't fight anything here either. Your entire army, Slovenian diplomacy and Members will support something that will not bring any good for Slovenia. The property will still be 50:50, Slovenia will not have a gold share, Slovenia will still continue or nuclear waste will continue to accumulate with us and will not be taken into account for the future of these wastes. You also signed this agreement - why? - or, you're ready to sign it. Why? And in the end, because I really hope you'll answer that too: Is it true that you plan, in addition to territorial integrity, in addition to the part of the economy to transfer to Croatia or to give them the Slovenian airspace that is currently under the control of Slovenian operators? According to rumors, negotiations are already under way with the content that you intend to pass on to them this medium high airspace, from 7,000 meters forward, where more than 90% of all flights are carried out and from taxis which - i.e. taxis for those planes travelling on this edge - pick up some more than 22 million German marks. Is that true? And if it's true, just tell me -- because we can't do anything to you in the final stage, you have your own army in the National Assembly, which is always outvoting us -- what is the purpose of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. This question provides an opportunity to answer current questions about relations with the Republic of Croatia. As regards the small-border agreement, you have placed this agreement on the agenda of the National Assembly, it is well known, after previous reservations and after prior verification in the Constitutional Court. The position of the Slovenian Government has always been that this agreement does not prejudge the border and that it has nothing to do with setting the border, but regulates the regime of operation and stay at the border. As far as this small-border agreement is concerned, it seems to me that the time and expectation of people at the border has come for this agreement to be ratified by the National Assembly. According to our assessment - this issue has been examined - this agreement is not in conflict with the Schengen Agreement, which is expected to be adopted and applied at our borders in the near future when we become members of the European Union. The practice in the European Union, or the practice of the introduction of the acquis, is for the European Union itself to express its opinion or opinion on such issues. If such an agreement were to be adopted when they were already members of the European Union, they should first align it with the other members. If we accept it before we become members of the European Union, we will bring it with us to the European Union and then we will find out, of course, that we are checking the consistency or possibly correcting it if it is possible to conclude that some items do not comply, for example, with the order of the European Union. So, according to our preliminary checks, this is not supposed to be the case. But even if this situation were to occur theoretically, it would mean that we would then make certain adjustments when we became members. Our assessment is that we want to maintain as normal relations as possible with Croatia in the future. After all, we only have a pretty long border with this country. A lot of life at the border, a lot of people, a lot of mutual interests. Hermetically closing such a limit, I think it would not be in the interest of Slovenia and not Croatia. However, the Schengen Agreement is primarily directed at illegal migration. As a rule, from third countries. So there is very little possibility that those people, or completely neglected, would be those people living in the border band who are illegal migrants to Slovenia and then to the European Union. What Slovenia will have to achieve with the Schengen border and the regime is, of course, such a regime as the European Union establishes at its borders up to thirds, and in particular insurance against illegal migration coming from other destinations, thus not from the border areas of Croatia. And the next. We are negotiating intensively with Croatia on the border. It's true that for 10 years, almost 10 years. It's been very intense lately. And I can argue that without a territorial exit to the open sea, there will be no border agreement. This is an imperative that Slovenia requires in all the negotiations so far, and it will also stand in the future. It's the other way around. It's a nuclear power plant in Krske. There too, after long-standing negotiations, we have now taken a decisive step forward and come to a fundamental agreement. This fundamental agreement is, in fact, that fundamental element and the criteria have been known and harmonised for some time. This is equal ownership, as was the case at the beginning of the investment. It is a joint investment, with half the participation of both sides. And then the regulation of all obligations and also rights according to this principle, 50:50. So, as much as commitment is made, so much must be done in some way also with competences, rights in management. The management should also be a "half-half" in that the President of the Administration, proposed by the Slovenian side, has the possibility of voting on those fundamental points that are important for the functioning of the nuclear plant, so as not to block it in vital points of operation or safety of the nuclear plant. Well, if it's a nuclear waste issue. I would like to point out that the original agreement, when the nuke was built, does not foresee any other solution than that these wastes remain with us. So what we've talked about in principle now is that both sides, including the responsibility for waste, are taking on equal shares, i.e. "half-and-half". To continue to store where they are now, that is to say in Krška; to seek a solution together either in a third country or a new storage of waste in one or another country, or in both countries; to cover the same costs; and to take, in the extreme case, a third solution, to take each half of its own, to say so. We think that this is correct and also given the status quo situation, given the existing situation, but a better solution than it is now. Maybe there wouldn't be an agreement on anything. As far as airspace is concerned, I must say that for the first time I have heard of anyone negotiating with Croatia to control our airspace. There was no talk about this in the government, and as Prime Minister, I have no information about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My friend Pece wants to ask a further question. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	They say that the wise people of history learn something and expect that the Slovenian government is and that the men and women in the Slovenian government are wise enough to be from our history, especially from the history of the former [[Incomprehensible]] , as well as from history to Croatia, learned something. But unfortunately, you haven't learned anything. Well, let's start with a crackpot nuke. Who didn't pay the electricity? Didn't we pay the Slovenians? No, Croats didn't pay for it. Where's he lying? It is located in Slovenia, with no "half-half". Who's gonna have the trash until closing? Slovenia, no one else. Whose closing date did he announce? The Slovenian date was 2007, the Croatian date 2023. He's been announcing Croatian. Not a word about "half-and-half." Since the Slovenian government can't negotiate, the only assumption is to defend itself with something, says, "half-half" we got ownership. Good, if that's your strategy. In any case, we are very sorry in the Slovenian National Party that you no longer have the pride for this country, which is our only country. You continued talking about the border or trying to answer something. You know, even the border agreement is not in the sense of national interest, and in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should have a fundamental national interest. With the adoption of this agreement - which has been placed on the agenda by your "chatika" Members, not by the whole Parliament, were proposals to withdraw - Slovenia will lose its negotiating opportunities for entry into the open sea. These are not simple things and I think it would be necessary for this government and this Parliament to take more time for these things and not as quickly as they are now trying to get them under the carpet for the price of popularity. True, these have been open questions for decades. I am sure that even with your word on the possible withdrawal of the border cooperation point, we can make better border cooperation that will be in the interests of the people
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	I'm asking you to finish because you've been gone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	from these border areas as well as national interest. However, the Schengen Agreement specifies the border crossing points and this agreement is not in accordance with the Schengen Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you. All I ask is that we respect the rules that apply to all equally. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to answer this supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Look, let's be more serious when we talk about these issues. It is easier to gain cheap popularity with populist views on such issues, even when it comes to relations with neighbouring countries. This is the simplest one, in my opinion, also the most irresponsible policy. It is responsible to seek solutions to questions and problems. And I think after ten years, it's really time to find a solution to the remaining open questions. The government’s starting points to the National Nuclear Assembly said that our starting points were semi-owned. So much as we invested in one and the other when the nuke was being built. We also wanted to talk about the option of redemption, so let's buy the Croatian part. This would be an acceptable option for us, of course, if the terms of redemption were acceptable. That didn't work so far. But there is this possibility open to the future. So it stays open. We'll talk about her. In any event, it is necessary to arrange relations back, even if we went to the option of redemption. And back-to-back relations, what we have now regulated, are the financial obligations of one party and the other, non-payment of obligations, after all due to the default between 1997 and 1998 the Slovenian side shut down electricity to Croatia and thus established a new relationship, which was essentially unilaterally initiated. It is true that Slovenia has not fully settled its obligations in previous years, even in individual years, so that we have now managed to reach an agreement to break each other's obligations, to start off at a zero point, to balance this agreement properly, and then Slovenia will also be able to use the Croatian part of the nuclear power plant, i.e. electricity, for another year. I think that's right. Everything else would mean, as I have already said, that we will seize Croatia's property. At the same time, I would remind you that there is much more Slovenian property in Croatia than in Slovenia. Let me remind you of all the many weekends, holiday homes and so on. We have already settled all of this with a property agreement with Croatia on a proper basis. And I think that this is a fundamental principle that applies among the democratic market countries and that, of course, in derogation from this principle, there would be a breach of a whole range of international rules, after all, of the World Trade Organisations we are members of. As far as I am concerned, once again, as far as the small-border agreement is concerned, I have given my opinion. This agreement is in the interest of our citizens, our citizens and Croatians, this is our national interest. At no point has our national interest been compromised, on the contrary, it has been fulfilled. I repeat. I am sure that no one among us thinks that Croatia, at the border with Croatia, should establish some kind of iron curtain and limit contacts with the neighbouring country to such a minimum. This is far from Slovenian national interest. In short, I hope that we can also talk more specifically about the final solution to the border issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Prime Minister. The following question will be raised by colleague Janez Janš. You have the floor, Comrade Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Dear Mr President and Members of the Government! Dear fellows and fellows! Yesterday, the Constitutional Court repealed the law on the conversion of free-of-customs shops. The case is referred in the procedure to "zero point" after the law has been passed. I would like to know what the government will do in this situation when the proceedings for the referendum are under way or to apply for a referendum on this law. I also ask the Prime Minister, in his opinion, what would be the consequences if a referendum were to take place and this law falls at the referendum, and the National Assembly for a very good period of time has been banned from adopting any similar solution. In short, I ask what would be the impact on the country in the light of the European Union's approximation. My second question concerns you, as Prime Minister and also as leader of the ruling coalition. In this National Assembly, a number of votes have already been taken on the composition, the composition of the Supervisory Boards and the committees, in which there is no representative of the opposition. This was the case, for example, recently, when Darsa's Supervisory Council was voted here, the institutions with huge financial resources in this supervisory council have fallen out of this supervisory council, all of which we have proposed by the opposition. In short, only representatives of government parties were voted At this meeting, we have a proposal for the composition of the Committee, the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Forests and Lands, also an extremely important institution, as Parliament appoints a Supervisory Board. And here too, after the vote on the Elections and Administrative Affairs Commission, all the opposition's proposals fell out. In short, there is also a threat here that we will get a body that will play a supervisory role, but only government Members will be there. I ask you, therefore, whether this seems good for the credibility of the State, for the confirmation of the constitutional principle of the division of power between the various branches and whether anything will be done to put an end to this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you, Comrade Janša. Two questions were asked. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you. As far as the referendum on free-customs stores is concerned. If this referendum is now to be signed and it is obvious that, following a Constitutional Court ruling, there will be a period for collecting signatures, the 40,000 signatures required for the referendum. What the government can do at that time is probably just to explain to the public what the consequences of this referendum are, as concerns the second part of your question. So this process is now ongoing and, of course, we do not have the opportunity to influence it in any way, except through this public explanation. Consequences for the country, therefore, if a referendum were to be held and voted in the sense of not shutting down customs shops, the consequences of our pace of membership in the European Union would certainly be essential if we were talking about the time horizon. Therefore, our orientation and our approach to this issue will be to convince people not to sign this initiative, because it is probably a very small circle of people, primarily for the owners of these shops. According to our estimates, there will be a major decrease, perhaps very large profits in some of the normal profits in these stores when the shops are transformed, another, no other consequences. As far as the country is concerned, of course, this means that we will not be able to conclude certain chapters in negotiations with the European Union, that we will have to wait and only in a year's time, so if we are successful again, only in a year's time, then we will resolve this issue with a new law and then close free trade shops. At that time, Slovenia would have been overtaken by my assessment of some of the other candidates, probably some five candidate countries in the European Union, and it is very likely that Slovenia would have lost that first possible date of entry into the European Union. Not very likely, but pretty sure. At the conclusion of the European Summit in Göteborg, on Friday and Saturday, the orientation of the European Union is for the candidate countries to conclude negotiations in the course of 2002. Our assessment is that Slovenia can conclude earlier, that is, in the first half of 2002, and then start ratification procedures, by ensuring entry into the European Union at least with the beginning of 2004, that is, after ratification in all countries, including us and the European Union, in order to participate in the elections to the European Parliament in the spring of 2004. So, such a plan, such a timetable, has now been confirmed by the European Union at its summit. Of course, it is understandable in this context that the call for a referendum, and in particular a successful referendum from the perspective of those who propose it, would constitute a major obstacle, an additional obstacle and a delay in our accession to the European Union. On everything that we are making extraordinary efforts, all together, both the government and the national assembly, to align our legal order with the European as soon as possible in order to conclude negotiations with the European Union, I think this is a serious issue and a serious problem if such a delay and such a derogation were to occur here. Therefore, I certainly also appeal to the public, and also to the Members of the National Assembly, of course, to work together to ensure that these 40,000 signatures are not collected and that, of course, we are also properly engaged and then in public debate, we tell people what is at stake and that most of this referendum is losing to the benefit of a very small minority. With regard to the second question, I must say that unfortunately I am not informed about how the procedures in the National Assembly for the appointment of these supervisory councils have been conducted, that my role as leader of the coalition is clearly not so deep and so far and so far as to be able to answer this question in fact and also to provide maximum consistent solutions everywhere. But it is certainly, if I speak for myself as the leader of the coalition, in this case in the interests of the coalition, that relations are balanced and that the opposition also cooperates in proportion to its electoral influence on such issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be asked by colleague Igor Štemberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Despite the flattering assessments of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of Presidents Bush and Putin, student and student demonstrations last week showed that the success story does not apply to all segments of Slovenian society. Trends in study over the last decade clearly indicate a threat to the social security of students who, due to the increasing cost of studying and particularly staying in the Slovenian capital, are increasingly burdening parents. Thus, many Slovenian families can no longer finance their child’s study. Students and students expect the government to sign an agreement covering chapters on student residence, nutrition, scholarships, student work, quality studies and the like. Can we expect such an agreement to be signed between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the student organisation of Slovenia, given that some of these issues have already been addressed by other documents and that oral promises of ministers and State secretaries have already been made to the public on many requirements? In view of the fact that your government, at the 156th meeting of the Government, adopted a decision on the construction of new student homes by 2005 and on the basis of the fact that it was only after 16 months of student demonstrations that you appointed a project council for the construction of student homes, can you ensure that further activities for the construction of student homes will be carried out in accordance with the deadlines set out in the project for the construction of new student housing facilities in the Republic of Slovenia by 2005? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for asking. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, too, for that question. The Slovenian Government is aware of the importance of student issues, the conditions of students during their studies. It is aware of the importance of education and, of course, in the annual budget and even in the latter, we are proposing very large resources for this purpose. The number of students in Slovenia has doubled over the last decade. We're doing a very extensive program of scholarships, and I think it's about 11,000 scholarships from this title. The reconstruction and construction of the student homes you discussed is also in the programme and, of course, our firm intention is to implement this programme. The national programme is under consideration in the National Assembly and also solves all these issues in the long term. Therefore, the recent unrest and protests in this regard are also somewhat surprising, as there is really no reflection in the government in this direction in order to reduce student rights or reduce student standards. On the contrary, of course, public finances are always, but now we know that, under pressure, we are not going to save or find reserves in young people, in the student population. However, there is a great question whether it is necessary to sign a specific agreement to this effect, as there is no such practice. Here are our guidelines, our national programme, our n4charts, after all, these are serious commitments, both to the government and, I expect, to the national assembly in this direction. These are actually the maximum guarantees for this to happen. If there is any doubt that there are different views, it is understandable that we need to lead this particular and perhaps a new and even deeper discussion. But there is no doubt. And what we want are constructive proposals for improvements, efforts to do the best we can for young people, and of course for students, together over the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you. Would you like to ask additional questions? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Janez Drobnič to ask the ministers or ministers a question. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. First of all, a nice welcome to all the government representatives. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr Petrinov. Two months ago, i.e. at the April session, i asked her a question concerning the use of state resources in rehabilitating the economy of Peko in Tržič. It was about spending 5 billion tolars. Despite the Minister's promise to provide me with a written answer, I have not received this reply until today. In fact, there was a big hole instead of the projected profit this year. Billion dollars. The rehabilitation of Pek is now being announced and the use of state resources, which will eventually land somewhere else, of course, is to be expected. As we are aware, the country is currently providing financial resources for the payment of salaries to this company. Some entrepreneurs who come to my office ask me if they can also be eligible to pay. Like Pekko who got into trouble. And will the funds be available to us without an invitation to tender or through an invitation to tender? That's my first question. Second. Is what is done in accordance with the State Aid Act? And a third. My point. So, when do I get the expected answer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you so much for asking me that question. Among the pardoned ministers or ministers, she did not apologize to Dr. Petrinova. May I ask if anyone would like to answer the questions by ministers instead? Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	I apologize on behalf of Minister Petrinova for not attending today's meeting. But you will receive the answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	I'm asking for peace in the hall. He wants to ask a supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	The secretary is on a trip abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	Please ask an additional question? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	I asked you to. So the extra question is very exact. How, then, is this the shortest time? So I'll know if it's a month, two, three, six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	In 10 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	10 days is the time limit the government accepts - you will receive an answer. The next question will be asked by colleague Bojan Kontic. You have the floor, Comrade Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, other government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. My first question is to address Dr. Kebra, Minister of Health. I am interested, as has been the case several times so far, in your efforts to regulate the granting of concessions in primary health care in a way that will preserve both the function and the content of the national health programme until 2004. The next issue is the initiative of the Ministry of Transport. For a long time, we have been warning that exports from the Arja motorway to the village are inadequately saved. The current diamond method will need to be replaced in due course by a so-called child. However, until this redesign, it is necessary to arrange immediately more transparent and thus safer exports from the motorway. I also warn that exports to Velenje as one of Slovenia's largest cities are poorly marked. It is also important to emphasise that this is a road link for Koroška and also for the neighbouring state of Austria. Second initiative to the government or the Ministry of Justice. I propose that all possibilities for eliminating illogicality, which underpin the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law, be considered. Let me give you just one example: I firmly believe that there are more of these cases. I will not mention specific names, but I can, of course, refer them in writing. It's been two years since the stolen car was discovered by the police in a large and successful action. Before that, unfortunately, it was processed and sold further. The owner was invited to recognize him, and she did. Since then it has been a year and a half, but the car has not yet been returned to the owners Thank you very much for examining the initiatives and, of course, for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Before I invite the Minister of Health to the floor, let me warn you that we have now also received Dr. Tee Petrin's apology. Dr. Boštjan Antončič will answer for her. Please, Minister of Health, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you so much for asking about concessions. I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is also aware of the importance of this problem. According to statistics in the previous nine years, 800 concessions have been awarded, which is a round number, during this ministry of 6 concessions, of which 5 dentists, dentists. This also proves that we want to settle this area first before we continue with a perfectly legal option, which is what we call co-existence between concessionaires and between the existing basic health system. I would like to say that at this time we have found that there is a need to amend the legislation because it grants concessions in the municipalities and that the fragmentation of the municipalities has further complicated these problems. So the Ministry of Health has only the opportunity to influence the conditions for granting concessions. In order to at least partially relieve this pressure, which now exists - and this pressure is two types: a number of doctors who request or apply for concessions, and of course the reverse interest of the health authorities and the mixed interest of the municipal authorities - we have decided that we will issue something which, of course, does not have an official title, guidelines, recommendations from the Ministry, to a change of legislation that will give the Ministry a view and in this regard will be a clear direction to maintain health homes and that this will lead us to the organisation of basic health care. While, of course, all concessionaires must be considered to be an integral part of the public health network. In short, the instructions will come in the shortest time, even before the holidays, in a few weeks, in two, three weeks. While preparing appropriate legislation, we hope, by autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Anybody else want to answer that? Please, Minister Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Dear Mr. Contic! On this issue, I would suggest that the affected individual turn to the Ministry with specific information, because only in this case can we verify the reasons why this car has not yet been returned. It is a criminal offence and only by checking in a specific case would it be possible to determine whether there are reasons why the return has not yet taken place. Otherwise, of course, I agree that it is appropriate to do everything possible to eliminate all illogicalities or problems that can actually cause misunderstandings and reduce confidence in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State, Mr. Shine, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the diamond connection in Arja, I must tell the village that the professional take-up of such a diamond corresponds to the amount of traffic recorded on this connection. As an example, most connections on the Ljubljana bypass are such performances, as well as in world literature and world practice, such integration is common. Of course, it is a little more difficult, even in our view, babies are more suitable and more liquid. But it is not only about joining the Arya village, it is also about joining Celje and towards Velenje and Dravograd. In the Ministry of Transport we are seriously studying the direction of traffic Dravograd-Velenje-Cele towards the Wall Bridge and forward towards Krka, and this is one of our future projects. On this project, the project of joining Celje, the so-called Lopata connection, is already well worked out and will largely solve this problem. With regard to the bad label - this moment is not the problem for me, but I will order that we review it immediately, and we will give you a written answer as to what may be wrong here and how we can and how we will improve the labelling and traffic management of this connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. You don't want to ask a supplementary question. Then I invite Mr Vojko Celigo to ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I also have a question for the Ministry of Transport for the Ministry of Economy. Railway program Pivka - River in Croatia is part of the Ljubljana railway line - River. All this time, this trail is in great isolation. Let me just tell you a few things. A total of 11 passenger trains were shut down every day, which were still on the road 10 years ago. There is no other train between the morning train from Illyrian Bistrica to Ljubljana and the next, which is only in the afternoon. Freight traffic is rare. Modesty investments in track maintenance and signalling devices are already causing accidents. And just recently, we had a new death victim at an unprotected railway crossing. Surely there are some objective reasons for such a situation. This is how we know about the difficult economic situation of the rudimentary economy. The situation on the railway must also be fuelled by early political agreements and the absence of economic programmes between Slovenia and Croatia. My question is this. Why does Slovenia not make greater use of this window? And how is the role of this railway in Slovenia's transport and economic plans defined? And a short second question, if you can, for the Ministry of Defence, for culture and maybe for someone else. The former property of the Yugoslav People's Army, either military, warehouse, residential, housing and other, has been slowly and slowly moving into the hands of civilian structures for ten years. This time is clearly falling apart. Many objects are already approaching a negative zero at market value. But it's a huge asset. We know that the country is, in principle, a bad master. And it is more than necessary for the state to seek more suitable masters for these facilities. In Illyrian Bistrica, we have a lot of former JLA facilities, as well as a lot of negative experience in the agreements for these objects. In particular, I have in mind the former home of the Yugoslav human army, for which the congregation has a special interest. Such interest also shows for the facilities that we would like to convert to the firehouse and to the headquarters of the police. Everything shows that the matter will only be settled now unless some new complications arise again, which usually occur as soon as an agreement seems to have been reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you, too, for the respect of time. I ask the competent ministers to answer the questions. Who's first? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and you, Mr Celigoj, for the questions raised. First and first, as regards passenger, rail passenger transport, it should be taken into account that the number of trains is determined by timetable, so far for a one-year period, and that these timetables are in fact all timetables in line with the municipalities. This means that, as long as the number of actually passenger trains has dropped so much, the main reason is that, for the first time, I think, there are not enough passengers; for the second time, passenger traffic has probably decreased also due to a smaller influx of passengers from the Croatian side. So, here, as other countries do, for example the European Union, should in fact gradually move in with us, as we will also adopt legislation, to co-financing passenger rail and public transport, including road transport, co-financing of this transport by, say, future regions. As far as freight transport is concerned, in fact, the wider economic backdrop of Croatia has deteriorated so much over the past ten years that freight traffic on this route has fallen significantly. Of course, the capacity of this line is not used around, and I must say that the maintenance level of this section of our line is in accordance with all our safety regulations and allows the traffic of both passenger and freight trains according to these regulations, is said to be up to 80 km/h in passenger traffic and slightly less in cargo. So how and how Slovenia could make better use of its infrastructure potential towards Croatia. Part of this is actually in the interests of the economy, especially here I mean the integration of the North Adriatic ports, which is somehow already largely, to some extent, I will say realized between the port of Koper and Trieste, including other Italian ports, and of course also the river in this case. To the extent that this is actually the case, and to be expected in the coming years, to increase the volume of work, in particular if the supply of this economic segment is marketed sufficiently against the supply of North European ports and, of course, as far as we are concerned in our infrastructure development programmes, both motorway and rail, to some extent follow the plans that we have identified in the national programme, this will, of course, be able to make better economic use of it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State Dr. Hangel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Your Honor, Mr. Cheligoy. With regard to the question of the fate of the former House of JLA in Illyrian Bistrica, home of Vidma, I would like to say that in a triangle: the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Culture, the municipality, has prepared a draft contract for the use of this house under agreed conditions. So we expect that the government process itself will run out in a short time, and then this ten-year calvary is likely to be successfully completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you, Secretary of State Baskovic. Anyone else want to explain the questions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Your Honor, Mr. Cheligoy. I can inform you that the Ministry of Defence is already preparing a draft global agreement in bilateral talks with representatives of the local community in Ilirska Bistrica, where we deal with more than ten open issues in this municipality, and only one of them is what Mr. Secretary for Culture has mentioned, Mr. Baskovic. So it is expected that we will soon conclude an agreement with the congregation that will settle all the open issues that we can resolve at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State of Landlocks. Anyone else want to explain the government's views on the issue? Would you like to ask a further question, Comrade Celigoj? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Mario Possonec to the floor. Please, colleague Pozson.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! I have a question for you. I have a question for you. I have an initiative for you. I ask the Ministry of Defence who will take moral responsibility for the death of a young soldier and who is responsible for the accident that took place during the carrying out of the mortar combat at the Poček house. I wonder if he has to put out a third young life in order to be aware of his responsibility. Secondly, the Ministry of Finance is asking what's going on with the tolar. In my mind, I have a decline in the value of tolar according to other currencies, such as the German brand or Hungarian forint, which I think is a special puzzle. And thirdly, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether it feels any responsibility to the part of our country that is located near Mura. Europe is not only born in Brussels, but in every region. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, but consists of each, even the smallest village. With full responsibility, I can say that all these strong funds and development centres have not helped or helped in any way at least those 28 villages that belong to my electoral environment. I always say that unemployment in this work is very high, I can say, the highest in our country and the lowest gross personal income. We have the least students, and even those who finish their studies don't have a job, and they don't even get a trainee. The farming that we were proud of is coming before our eyes. No one in the village of Dolenjska deals with livestock. Young hopes go literally with the belly behind the bread and the story repeats itself. I have put all this and many other problems here in the National Assembly so many times when it comes to parliamentary issues. And all for nothing. And if they're answers, they're just fairy tales for a good night. I propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have one of its meetings in Lendava to make sure of what I am saying and have a little more responsibility in the future, to listen to that part of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. Who from the government will be the first to respond? Please, Mr. Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, allow me to apologize to the Minister, Dr. Anton Grisold, who is on a business trip abroad. However, with regard to the question raised, I would like to say that the Ministry of Defence and, in particular, the Slovenian Armed Forces very much regrets that the said accident has taken place. And they especially regret the death of a military bondsman in military service. The event, I must say, is regretted by all the employees in the Ministry of Defence. For this reason, I do not want to talk to this assembly about the accident that took place at Poček, but I would just like to say that all the measures envisaged for such shooting were taken before that event. Thus, a technical inspection of weapons and ammunition was carried out. Training of soldiers has been carried out according to the plan and training programme. Preparations have also been made for training providers and participants. Even after the accident that happened, mandatory measures were taken, and I wouldn't list them all here. I would point out that it was also immediately in accordance with the rules appointed by the Commission, which had to start examining the event and the circumstances in which the accident occurred, and that they were out of traffic, or, if I say otherwise, an order banning all weapons with a calibre of more than 14.5 mm, the use of M75 hand bombs and all exercises with military explosives in all units of the Slovenian Army was transmitted to everyone. Special expert committees have already reviewed and reviewed and already have a number of types of explosives and assets and, of course, these resources will, if found out, also be withdrawn from use. The first findings of the Commission identifying all the circumstances of the Poček accident are that the documents examined show that the level of competence of the participants in the fighting fund cannot be the reason for the event. I'm stressing the first conclusions. The process of planning and organising training and shooting provided for an organised and safe implementation of this by content. Even after the first information was obtained it was to ensure a combat shooting - I am thinking mainly of gun insurance, health insurance, technical security, safety, fire, etc. - carried out in accordance with the algorithm for the use of the polygon and in accordance with the command issued by the commander in this regard. It also produced ammunition that was technically inspected and used to analyse the powder. The results for this ammunition were appropriate. The pyrotechnics were also thoroughly inspected prior to the shooting, and they did not detect any deficiencies that would have caused the shooting to fail. 18.6. Partly in relation to the accident itself, the accident was also taken over by the Institute for Criminal Technical Research. In doing so, the Ministry of Defence made available to all the authorities responsible for investigating this act, to the investigating judge, to the State Prosecutor's Office and others, of course, all technical means and also to the expert in this area. The results of the investigation are not yet known and, of course, until the results of the investigation are known, the investigation will not be concluded and it is very difficult to judge liability. The Minister of Defence and the Chief of General Staff will exercise such disciplinary and, if necessary, criminal responsibility, of course, if the accident is found to have occurred for subjective reasons. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that we regret this event in the Ministry and in the Slovenian Army. Personally, and like I said, all the workers. In the framework of our options, we will strive to avoid accidents in the future until such extraordinary events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Time. Which one of the ministers will answer the other questions? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Dear Members and Members. Since I have my first chance to perform in front of you, allow me to introduce myself briefly. Darko Tolar, Secretary of State. What's going on with the tolar, why it's sliding, was your question. I apologize in advance for not being able to give you a satisfactory answer. The rolling or resting course of the Tolar, the domestic currency, is under the full jurisdiction of the Bank of Slovenia, the World Bank of Slovenia and, of course, the Governor. In general, I can say, of course, that the tolar exchange rate has been rolling since Parliament adopted it as a currency and when Banka Slovenije has adopted an instrument to adjust its value compared to foreign currencies. The Bank of Slovenia has also decided in the beginning against certain positions of foreign experts that it is necessary all the time, and this it intends to do in the future, until our country enters the European community, to retain and use the mechanism of a moving rolling course, which means that its value will adapt to market and monetary conditions, both at home and abroad. This year it is significant, at least in the first half, that there was a significant inflow of foreign capital. And Banka Slovenije’s policy is primarily aimed at controlling this foreign exchange, larger or smaller foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange inflow, because domestic, domestic money under its strict supervision is, of course, necessary to take action, i.e. those that need to be taken through daily policy, primarily on the foreign exchange rate. So when Banka Slovenije believes that it is necessary to change the exchange rate of our currency faster to foreign currencies, to the basket of foreign currencies, of which, of course, Eastern European currencies, as well as Swiss franc and US dollar, it works with a view, on the one hand, to offset the competitive conditions of Slovenian exporters and, on the other hand, to control that these inflows of foreign capital assets would not have an additional impact on the increased domestic demand when foreign currency becomes domestic currency, and that this would not result in additional inflation. However, in general, I am committed to conveying your question to the Governor and his colleagues and to provide you with a broader written explanation of why he is slipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you, Mag. Tolar, Secretary of State. Would any of the government's representatives like to answer the questions raised by colleague Pozsonec? [[No, no, ……]] Are you satisfied with Mrs. Pozsonec's answers? Would you like another question? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite my colleague Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. A well-respected council of government. My question is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and relates to the double sale of GIP Pioneer Zagreb, which took place in bankruptcy proceedings against Pionir p.o. It's a new town. With regard to the double sale of GIP Pioneer Zagreb - which was prior to the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings against Pionir p.o. from New Town sold to No. Line Daruvar, and later the bankruptcy Senate of the New Town Court approved the sale of this company, this time the new Zagreb Bank - I have already asked the first question of the Member State and then 30.6. the same year second. It is clear from both the facts presented and the evasive replies that the double sale was made, or even more, that the bankruptcy manager and the bankruptcy Senate were aware of the first sale. More than an unusual way to resolve this problem by the New Town judiciary shows the most obvious fact that, on the one hand, the District Attorney, Mr Niko Bricelj, demanded the imposition of criminal proceedings against the director of Pioneer Novo mesto, czech, that he sold Pionir Zagreb to the company No. Line Daruvar at a price too low. On the other hand, the bankruptcy manager and the bankruptcy Senate claim that there was no sale of Line Daruvar. A fair process to reverse the second sale, that is to sell to New Bank Zagreb, despite the fact that statistics speak of the update of the New Town Court, does not move from a dead point, and it is completely unreasonable not to resolve the judicial process. In this regard, I ask the following question: how is it possible that the New Town District Court, as one of the most effective in Slovenia, still failed to decide on the request to cancel the sale of the GIP Pioneer Zagreb Novi banka? Or is it because of waiting for a verdict of justice in Zagreb regarding the entry of No. Line Daruvar into the Share Book, or because those responsible for conducting the bankruptcy procedure seek a favourable outcome of justice in Zagreb? And how long has it been since the last main hearing, and why so? In view of the fact that the competent bankruptcy Senate of the New Town District Court was already informed in writing on 12.5.1996 that GIP Pioneer Zagreb had already been sold before the bankruptcy proceedings had been initiated and that this fact was not taken into account and sold again, and given that there was virtually nothing resolved after five years, I believe that the New Town District Court is literally in favour of a manifest violation of economic system law. It is unacceptable that a legal person or economic entity, which is fully in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot acquire certain property on it, even after five years of no property rights. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry to determine why these cases are not concluded in the New Town District Court and, given the difficulty of the matter, I would like to be informed in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	You're like clockwork, Comrade Brenčič. You've asked the government a question. Which one of the authorities would like to give an answer? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	With regard to how much time has elapsed since the last hearing in the New Town District Court, why the case is not closed, I would say that we will be conducting a inquiry in this regard and will give a written answer to this question of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. There is no further question, so I invite my colleague, Jožet Ašić, to the floor. But before that, I'm asking my colleague for you not to bother you when you're asking a question. You have the floor, Comrade Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. [[He didn't listen to me.]] Have a nice hello to you all. I have an initiative, there can be three, there can be one, and I hope that some of this is already being prepared in government circles. Indeed, this year is truly strange and has been serving us since winter with various phenomena, from cold to hail, which we have once experienced and heard here from Parliament, to the hail which was yesterday and before yesterday, and which has caused some places in Slovenia, including my Posavia, to visit quite three times in a row and unfortunately, and the disaster of some farmers, quite the same lot, three times visited and thus, of course, caused a 100% loss of this year's crop, and most likely, among the orchards, also long-term damage on plantations. I am of course taking the initiative to draw up a report on this year's captures, to prepare, of course, a report on whether the intervention law is in preparation; I am taking the initiative that the system law on the prevention of natural disasters and the management of damage after major disasters will also survive the next stage of consideration or its modernisation, as it has been a long time since it was tabled in Parliament. I do not think it contains all that it should contain today from possible subsidies for insurance against such accidents. In this report, I would also like to see a more precise defence against the point that is being treated in professional circles in Slovenia in a variety of ways, but it has not been practical since 1991, when systematic defence against the point of missiles that are being praised today and others say they are worthless. Since then, Slovenia has been practically protected. I believe that during this entire period we have had to invest very much in compensation or in subsidies to the injured and that we have done very little in the area of prevention. That is why I give these three initiatives, or one, as is already the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. That was an initiative. Does the government want to respond to her? But it's not necessary. Yeah? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Mr Darko Simončič, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I would like to answer the question about the disasters that took place this year. At its previous meeting, the Government had already set up a department responsible for the formation of a group or commission to assess the injury. So at this meeting, the government will also come up with a proposal for the formation of this group. Then the assessment of damage by municipalities would also be arranged. On the basis of this assessment, appropriate measures may then be taken to recover this damage. Regarding the consequences of damage on the track, the professions are divided. According to some estimates, missile damage protection has also been successful, but it has been abandoned mainly because of the poor quality of the missiles. Of course, the opinions of the profession were also shared on performance. Large investment in the establishment of the previous situation or should first be regulated, an assessment of the appropriateness of reintroduction of such a method should be made. Once again, the project remains in the northeast of Slovenia, where the aircraft are used. Of course, there are limits to borders. Opinions or views on the regression of interest rates for hail or natural disasters are also always emerging. It is important to take into account the fact that this requires considerable resources. According to some calculations, we have found that in order to repress the insurance premium for permanent plantations, we would give as much money as we would spend annually on the renewal of permanent plantations. So is the dilemma of a financial nature. Of course, we have also somehow committed ourselves to establishing risk funds or partly co-financing of the insurance premium. Of course, this is linked to additional funding and, of course, we must also take into account the effects of these measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Simoncic. Would you like to further explain the government's position, Secretary of State of Time? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	On behalf of the Ministry of Defence, I would like to point out that, in essence, a proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters as a starting point is being considered at this meeting. That is why, of course, we will also follow your initiative. This will also be the starting point for the drafting of a new law on protection against natural and other disasters. However, I must also say that the government will address and adopt the protection and rescue doctrine at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We don't have any further questions. My colleague Miha Brac is next to ask the government a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. First of all, there are only two ministers and ministers of the Slovenian government here. [[...]] I was gonna say three. This points to a kind of inadequate attitude of the government, the ministers, towards this assembly. Everyone knows that Tuesday afternoon is dedicated to questions of Members and Members. Of course, they show or continue their arrogance toward the national assembly. I'd like to ask Minister Rob a question, but he's not here. Maybe it's one of the Secretary of State, Mr. Tolar, maybe he can help. Last year, the Constitutional Court cited a whole series of laws, some 10 of which needed to be recast in this National Assembly, to improve in order to eliminate discriminatory provisions or non-constitutional provisions. Among them was the Income Act. In this regard, I have asked a question, namely, on 20 February this year, to Minister Rope: When will the constitutional decisions of 1996, 1997 and 1999 which eliminate discrimination when it comes to income, income relief, that is to say for children and adoptive parents, when will these things be eliminated? The answer was "in a month." He was as vague as this is very common. But it was said that this would be done in the first half of this year. We see from the reference to this meeting that this did not happen From the forerunner for the July session we also see that this did not happen. I'm guessing that's not done. I ask when this will finally be done, when will the Ministry enforce the constitutional court provision. I'm asking the Ministry of Defence when it will withdraw from the use of the old Yugoslav, and I don't know what kind of ammunition and weapons. The accident at Poček was caused, among other things, by the fact that the ammunition was 14 years old and 17 years old. When will the authorities move there and stop causing such tragedies? Third. I encourage the Government or the competent ministry to consider extending the deadline to all those who have missed the timely application for denationalisation. In my office in the Vipavska Valley, there were quite a few people who, of course, missed this deadline for unknown reasons. I know the deadline is too late. However, given that there are a number of such cases, I ask whether it would be possible to amend the law in that part, but still allowing people to correct themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Before I give my word to Secretary of State Končan, it is possible to clarify that the replacement of ministers by State secretaries is not commercially disputed. However, I do not think it would be right if it were the custom for ministers and ministers to replace the secretaries of the State in answering their questions. It is not a matter of disrespect for this institution of a high position, it is a matter of expectation, rightly, by the national assembly, that the ministers will answer questions once a month, at the time foreseen, and also stand behind their words. And now I'm inviting Secretary of State Koncan. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Dear Mr. President Brace! First of all, I have to apologize to the Minister for being present at the meeting, and he's just gone to an interview and he's probably coming back. On this question, as you said, has already been raised, I do not think we have given a vague answer, but clearly in the sense that we will definitely put a new law on income into the parliamentary procedure. We just finished our concluding talks at the Ministry yesterday, internal consultations, reflections, drafting a working proposal for the text of the law, and now we will only equip it adequately with explanations and then put it into the procedure. Why don't we hurry to get to 30.6.? The Income Act will be enforced for the entire fiscal year anyway. This does not mean that we would be irresponsibly stalling with a given promise, but we would like to draw up a very quality, very professional proposal for this text, which we will put forward in interdepartmental coordination, then at a government meeting, so that we can then put it through the whole process. Just first thoughts and focus on various institutions when certain things come along, some alternatives and thinking in public, clearly point to the burny responses in the public and therefore we are even more cautious in these last days. In this respect, I can ensure that all decisions or rulings adopted by the Constitutional Court in respect of income provisions are taken into account in the new law
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite you to explain further, Dr. Time? [[..]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	The Member of Parliament, Mr Brejc, also referred the issue to the Defence Ministry regarding weapons, when we will eliminate old weapons or old Yugoslav weapons. I would reply that, of course, certain rules and standards apply, as far as weapons or ammunition can be used. However, I must say that in 1997 and 1998, a thorough analysis was carried out of all these weapons mentioned and some had already been eliminated. Even before the use of this weapon, a review was carried out. However, I have already said in my reply to the Member State that we have set up commissions, and in the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, we will make sure that this is done thoroughly in order to eliminate all these matters. Of course, on the other hand, we will also need your support in order to obtain with financial means the kind of ammunition or weapons that are needed if we are to fulfil all the plans we have adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anyone else from the government would like to take a stand? Would you like some? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Dear Mr. Brace! With regard to denationalisation, as you know, the law has determined that this question has been so-called completed for applications, but we will examine your question and provide you with an answer within 10 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dr. Antončič. This is where the word was given in 10 days. I now invite my colleague Danica Simšič to ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. My question this time is actually related to an important anniversary, which is the 10th anniversary of Slovenia's independence. All over Slovenia, in many municipalities, as well as in the organization of NGOs and civil society organizations, celebrations, festivities, festivities and cultural academies are organized, and finally mass. One of these, called the Mass for the homeland, was on Sunday in Brezja, which, following the decision of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church, was an official national shrine and was prepared in co-organization of the Slovenian Conference of the Bishops. We saw on TV that the participation was great. Some famous figures from Slovenian and international life were also present in print media. What I am asking, or what a few people have asked me to ask, is related to the participation of the Director-General of the Slovenian Police in this mass or its continuation in the cultural programme. Let me explain. It is undeniable that all as individuals can freely decide whether we will be members of any of the more than 30 religious communities in Slovenia or not, or whether we will participate in religious rituals and events, which and when. This is our constitutional right or freedom. What people have asked me, and what I am now asking representatives of the government, I don't know, someone who is in charge of protocol rules or, for example, the Secretary-General, because I can see that they are not there, will perhaps be able to explain the Minister of the Interior, there is certainly no question whether the Director-General of Police can attend or not. It's entirely his business and his personal definition. However, I would like to know whether employees of the Slovenian police may use the official uniform of the Slovenian police when attending religious rituals, or whether our legislation defines the rights and responsibilities associated with wearing a uniform. I am particularly interested in this in view of the high position, since the Director-General does not last represent all Slovenian police officers. If I may add a comparison offered in my mind, it would be something like, for example, a university rector with all the rector signs or, for example, a constitutional judge in a court of law participating in some leisure activities or cultural events. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you so much for asking. Mr. Secretary of the Interior, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you so much for asking. I will focus on that part of the issue of wearing a uniform, because, with regard to the rest, the Member of Parliament has already taken its own position. Wearing a uniform is regulated by the law on police, in such a way that police officers who carry out their work in uniform are obliged to wear a uniform in the same way as laid down by the Ministry. At the same time, the uniform, the position and the markings and the symbols of the police are a government regulation. So we have two sub-legislative regulations, this is the Ministry's regulation on wearing uniforms, which refers to police officers doing their jobs in uniform, and the government's regulation, as I have already mentioned. However, the law does not address the issue of wearing uniforms for those police officers who do not use uniforms in their work. So we could say in a way that we have a legal void here, that this issue is not settled. In the case of the Director-General of Police, this is a police officer appointed by the government, not a police officer who does his job in uniform. At such a legal void or in such a legal situation, we could conclude, at first glance - but of course, we will examine matters in more detail and also answer - that the issue of wearing a uniform for an official who leads the work of the police, the matter of his judgment or responsibility, or taking into account the principles of the legal order in this area, is true principles that apply to others. That's how I'd take it to this law school. This means that it is a matter of judgment as to what kind of event it is, whether it is a ceremony, where it is used, what the object’s purpose is. I think it is the responsibility of the person who uses the uniform to decide this by taking into account the general legal principles or the legal order in this area. However, we will examine in particular if there is a need to further address this issue by means of sub-legislative acts or by some additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following question will be raised by Dr. Bayuk to the government or ministers. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since I was also present at this celebration, I would just like to say that I also saw the Director of Police and that he wore his uniform honorably and that it was broken, Mr Minister, if that is what you are interested in when you will study all this together. Thank you very much. Well, about my question and my initiative. There is a mine on the Žirovsk summit where they dug and processed the uranium ore. In the early 1990s, production of uranium concentrate was stopped due to over-production costs. The uranium mine has brought many more hardships than benefits to the inhabitants there. The huge quantities of manure produced as a by-product of production will continue to pose a potential threat to the environment there and, in particular, to the population. The amount of contaminated heifers exceeds 2 million tonnes of official estimates. All too often, demographically endangered and ecologically degraded areas were promised aid for normal development. However, as in many other places in Slovenia, there is also a great discrepancy between the planned and promised, on the one hand, and the realized, on the other. In particular, the State has given priority to cheaper works in closing surface objects, while expensive underground works are being delayed. So, especially what's in front of people, and not what's the essence of the problem. In recent years, the Žirov Summit has seen an unacceptable delay in the implementation of the planned works, resulting in an extension of the closure of the mine and, at the same time, a substantial increase in the scope of the work is threatened due to slow recovery, which means that the use of tax money is not rational. For three years, there has been a programme to address the negative effects of mining or mine closure. I'm sure you know that people there don't have a lot of job options to choose from. When, they ask, we stop saying nice things, and we're actually going to do something for the people who live there. One of our greatest treasures is the relatively even settlement of the country. Much of this wealth has been lost in recent decades. When will the time come, they ask themselves, and I wonder if the capital will do something for the Slovenian countryside, which is before the social and social collapse? As early as 1999, the current Minister of the Environment stated that there was a need to ensure a significantly larger amount of funding for rehabilitation, and nothing has actually happened. That is why I ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Janez Kopač, who is not present now, two years old, or will the rehabilitation of the Žirovski summit mine really take place by 2005? If not, why has the promised deadline been exceeded, and when is it realistic to expect the end of recovery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	No offense that I insisted that you too respect the time limit, so much more so as I may say, because at first you gave your position to the issues that were previously in the discussion, which is not the subject of discussion in the questions and initiatives that have been sent. I would like to ask that we do not continue this practice, because then everyone could use the first minute to define themselves to the positions already expressed. Who will answer on behalf of the government? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As you know, last year the National Assembly passed the law, the amendment of the law on the closure of the Žirovski vrh mine. In this law, of course, there are provisions relating to the transformation of the company into a public undertaking, and in some ways also the competence or competence of the company to accelerate the closure or closure of such works as credit-based engineering. Following the adoption of the amendment of this law, the government has adopted, it seems to me three weeks ago, a revised programme confirming or defining the starting point of the law to close the closing works by 2005, if credit and grants are also obtained from the European Bank and the European Commission for more coherent development and other environmental projects. At the moment, a revised programme has also led to a review carried out by an expert group of the European Bank, which assesses the credibility of such lending or the financial effectiveness of such a proposal or implementation. I must say that the review work has assessed this programme as a programme that needs to be somewhat complemented, but is fully adequate and in line with the European Bank's criteria for financing such projects. There is also a step ahead of the government at this point in time, which is related to the transformation of this company, to enable it to carry out this engineering and, of course, to all those matters which are, of course, also linked to the conclusions of this Parliament, to obtain a bank guarantee of this credit line and also to grant funds that are also linked to the placement of this loan. With the hope that this will end in 2002, of course they will be able to complete their work in the cave and in the barren land in 2005 or perhaps a year later. The assessment of the bank - this only as information - has been somewhat overestimated in this programme, in these work projects, which were linked to the caveat, or is called unnecessary, to the underestimation of the work on the barren land or on the coverings that are linked to the barren land. In this context, public companies are also currently correcting this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of the Tauzes. Dr. Bajuk wants to ask a supplementary question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. However, I would like to give another initiative in this regard. People in the municipality of Gorenje vas and Poljane cannot acquire habitable land for the construction of the craft zone. The mine at the Žirovsko Summit will sooner or later stop providing bread to the locals. Now there are about 70 other employees there, if I'm properly informed. Why does the recovery plan not establish minimum conditions for the economic development of this area? You know, it would be much smarter to think about this now, so I suggest that the Ministry examine this and decide to co-finance the construction and development of a small economy in the Todraž crafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Would you like to explain more? Please, Secretary of State of the Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The transformation of the public undertaking or the current company is in this direction to form two companies, one is a public company and one an economic company that would take over this particular craft area or this salary. I have to say that decontamination, decommissioning of this plateau is actually one third of the work done on mine closure, and it is over. This means that at this point all the works connected to the production facility, as it is called, have been completed and, of course, this salary is suitable for opening the craft zone. The Ministry also ordered the management of the company to provide sufficient resources to carry out appropriate studies that would somehow justify the formation of an economic company that would operate on the economic basis of this remuneration. However, I must say that, from now on, 77 employees for this company, if they do not retire before the expected 40 workers, in short, the public undertaking is not expected to have more than 30 workers after this transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Allow me a brief explanation as to why I am withdrawing the question to the Minister of Finance. Today, the government adopted a decision at the correspondence meeting to give its consent to the pension and disability insurance institution, that it should be entrusted with the necessary amount to be paid this year, with pensions for the month of June, an additional amount of one amount for recreation. That's why I'm withdrawing my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Areh Lavric Sonja. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Honourable ministers or ministers, representatives of the government and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian National Party we welcome the Saturday meeting of both statesmen on Slovenian soil. At the same time, we express our satisfaction at the good organisation of the meeting, only we regret that Slovenia has not presented itself as a truly democratic country, as only individual electorates, current government supporters and quasi-representatives of the opposition to the National Assembly, Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk have received invitations. Dear government officials! I ask you whether the representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and some of the legislative authorities - let me inform you that among them there are representatives of opposition parties - are we really so unworthy in the Slovenian national party that we are not invited to the event? We are also interested in whether the invitation assembly represents the future government, the government coalition of the Republic of Slovenia, or just fear that any of the representatives of the Slovenian National Party or any other opposition party would also say any real words at the expense of the military organisation NATO and strictly capitalist European integration without a minimum sense of social weakness. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the five-member Senate sentenced a domestic subcontractor, Mr Vinko Levstik, to 12 years in prison for war crimes and, in spite of such a severe conviction, allowed him to go free to legal power. Since Mr Levstik has Italian in addition to Slovenian citizenship, the law enforcement authorities may not be able to arrest him and take him to the execution of his sentence. I ask the Minister of Justice how it can be that in the rule of law, in our opinion and in your opinion, the Republic of Slovenia is, an ordinary thief is imprisoned immediately and a war criminal is released. Is that not an additional reason to prove that the permanent function of the judge is unacceptable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I ask representatives of the government who would like to answer the first question. The first question is probably Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc. Here you go. Mrs. Sonja, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	I thank the honourable Members for this question, as well as for the recognition you have given in your statement to organise this high-level visit. I would say that the presence of the political representatives of Slovenia on this visit was not based on any political dimension. It was a dry professional pro-taculatory decision, which mainly took into account the following criteria: that in honor of guests under the Protocol, however, representatives of all branches of government, the executive parliamentary and judicial branches should appear. That's what happened. In addition to the two presidents who played the role of host, state and government, the President of Parliament and the Vice-Presidents of Parliament attended the press conference and the reception. At the same time, a representative of the judiciary participated in the reception and farewells at the airport, which is what the President of the Constitutional and Supreme Court calls. In addition, the criteria present in the protocol of all branches of government followed another democratic principle, in addition to ruling parties from the ruling policy, to be attended by the opposition. Therefore, a representative of the largest and second largest opposition party was also invited into these protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Representative of the Ministry of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Dear Member! With regard to your question, I believe that you have already given a part of the answer, Mr. President has not yet been legally convicted. We know what the legal order is in Slovenia and the condition is the legal judgment - the same applies to ordinary thieves. However, if you wish, we will also give a written and more detailed answer in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	I would ask the Minister to answer me what the opposition is. And I'll read it again. Are we really so unworthy in the Slovenian National Party that they are not invited to the event? We are also interested in whether the selection of those invited represents the future government coalition of the Republic of Slovenia, or are you just afraid that any of the representatives of the Slovenian National Party or any other opposition party would also say any real words at the expense of the military organisation Nato and strictly capitalist European integration, without a minimum sense of the socially weaker people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Minister Bohinc, please! Mrs. Sonja, can you please turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	I would like to reiterate that there was no political criteria or dimension in determining the composition of the delegation. With the exception of the two delegations, the delegation of the President of the Republic and the delegation of the Prime Minister, in which neither the representatives nor representatives of the other branches of government participated, there was no possibility of having any discussions with one or the other President. The invited representatives of opposition parties, parliaments, leaders, namely the President and Vice-Presidents and the judiciary, did not participate directly in the talks because they were not included in the delegations of the President of the State and the Prime Minister who conducted these talks with one and another President. In short, it was not in any way to prevent anyone from expressing any views. It was merely protocol honors, which are expressed in a way that has already been customary and traditional in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next question will be presented by Mr Marko Diaci. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable ministers, government representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. I am referring to the Ministry of the Economy. Everyone is aware of the problems in the textile and footwear industry in Slovenia. Companies such as Pekko, Tolo Šentjur, Mont Kozje and not least Mura and others are in great trouble. I am interested in the strategy of the Ministry of Economy in this area and in your opinion what are the perspectives of this sector in Slovenia and not least in the European Union, given the known facts. I would also like to know whether which companies in this sector are still receiving State aid and in what form. We already talked about one today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Secretary of State, Dr. Boštjan Antončič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Dear Mr. Diaca, you will have your answer within 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	The next question will be asked by Mr Mirko Zamernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although you are having a good time with this meeting, I am sorry that it is not being led by Mr Pahor, because I would like to give him a few words first. Just as he insists that we stick to business provisions and that we limit the time to ask questions to 3 minutes, of course I would very much like him to stand up for his reputation, unless there is any other way to get answers to the questions raised within a 30-day time limit. Therefore, just as Mr Antončič now smiles at any such answer, so do I. In my previous mandate, I had a bad experience with this same Minister of Economic Affairs and I asked one question for three years, but there was no answer, and then there was some kind of answer, which, of course, was not the answer, but it was sent by the one behind the counter today. 30 days ago, I asked Mr Žnidaršič a question and Mrs Čadonic Špelič, who, now that I have shown her so far that I have not received an answer, I have received an answer from her, I thank her for that. However, despite the promise of my former fellow Member, there is still no answer from your Ministry. This is a question addressed to the home world regarding the equalization of the conditions of children or students, students who are studying outside the home. I think it's a serious problem that should be considered an answer. And I'm not surprised by the ignorant attitude of the government until I say, ordinary mortals, if this is the way we treat or behave toward the institution of the question of mission. But the question that I would like to ask the Minister for Environment and Space - I regret to note that he is not here - is related to his promise made at the hearing regarding the reduction of the procedures for obtaining site and building permits. With a large pump, I think he issued a directive two, three months ago that would greatly simplify the acquisition of these permits, but in practice, I tell you, that is not even enough. What problems we face the mayors and, of course, the citizens you are meeting with are very well acquainted with this. I'm sorry. For as long as the government's representatives extend their replies, at least for a fraction of that time, I would also extend my time if you would allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	I'm sorry. Just for a question, not for an explanation of this question. Just for a question. In one sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	In one sentence, thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that you will be so determined to provide the answers that will have to be given [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	The question is: When will we actually have simplified procedures for obtaining construction and location permits? Specifically for our space, the area from which I have been coming for three years, we cannot change spatial regulatory conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Who by the government will respond? Mag. Tauzes, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Of course, there are two points to this question. It's a short-term procedure in the area. Thus, these are location permits or building permits or single licences for spatial regulatory conditions or spatial acts. I'd answer first. It seems to me that the Minister of Hearing has also promised that these procedures will be shorter to intervene in the event of a location permit and a building permit. I have to say, some of the activities have come to fruition and have positive results. The point is that, with appropriate guidance to administrative units, we have, of course, made clear that those consents which are linked to a fixed track, by some custom, and do not have the legal basis to attach themselves, let's say, to this procedure of permission to intervene into a space, are unnecessary. There's something about this agreement. Given that administrative units respond positively to this, it seems to me that there are certain effects here and we will probably also be able to argue these effects or to demonstrate these effects in a written response. At the moment, however, it is also in the process of amending the law on the regulation of premises. In this way, such consents, which are sometimes unnecessary and which in some sense prolong or delay this authorisation procedure, will be further reduced or further regulated or clarify more clearly the legal basis required. The amendment of the law on the regulation of premises will also bring some innovation to this topic. I think that Mr Member will also be pleased with this reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, if I understand you correctly, you promised and indicated a written answer. I'm gonna get it in a business deadline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	I would also like to answer your question at the outset. The National Assembly has repeatedly sought to warn the government that it is responding within a time limit, both orally and in writing, to the questions raised. It also invites ministers to answer questions. However, as I explained earlier, the Rules of Procedure do not oblige ministers to be present at this item on the agenda, instead they may be answered by the State secretaries. However, the fact is that, like elsewhere, it is also true to do everything possible to engage in dialogue between the government and Parliament, so that political dialogue can also be possible, since, by the nature of the situation, the State secretaries do not want to make statements which are of a co-political nature, which is also appropriate for their situation. We will therefore once again call on the government to meet our expectations that, if possible and if they are not obliged to do so, ministers and ministers will cooperate. My friend Joseph Bernick wants to ask a question. Do you want to answer? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister of Finance, who is not here, a question later, but first I would like to announce a written question which I will ask the Government in a short time. At the age of 10, our independence comes to my mind that our country owes a great humanitarian tax to those who were killed after the war. The government has done little in all promises, and this is how we go to the 10th anniversary of independence with this debt. Someone will say that we care for the living here, not the dead, and that's true, because we've been trampling for 56 years on the right of dignity that the dead have on the Constitution, and now is the last time to do something. What we are doing is in total contravention of the cultural and humanitarian standards of the piette, which also apply in the world's most backward countries. So much for thinking about it. Now, my question to the gentleman or representative of the Ministry of Finance. I want you to explain to us your current view of market development in Slovenia, more specifically: What will you do within your remit to develop the capital market transparently, which will stimulate domestic investors and, above all, attract foreign strategic partners who will be able to contribute to the development of the Slovenian economy? That's what you say. You have to choose the right one. It is the belief of the vast majority of economists that the efficient market, together with other components of the financial market, is decisive for stable economic growth. I am joining all those who are familiar with the Slovenian capital market, who do not believe that the removal of custody accounts could significantly increase the interest of genuine foreign investors, strategic investors, in Slovenia. I also join those who say that the flow of capital from abroad will be greater only when, due to the ownership of certain important economic operators, such as banks, the return of interested former domestic capital, that is, social refugee capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	Comrade Bernick, question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	Yes, I'm asking a question, Mr President, but it's a little complicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	But the rules are the same, so please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	I was formerly, sorry, Mr President, you wrote down how much time someone had, and I see that you did not comply with this standard before. But I will respect him, but I warn you, and I ask you to keep doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Always consistent, Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Accordingly, I have always reminded you that it is necessary to ask the question when three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	Yeah, now I think I'm being discriminated against here, but whatever he wants. My question is, some things I had to let go. Has the Slovenian government ever had or has it designed a strategy for the development of the capital market in Slovenia? Has she proposed any institutions of control and sanctions in this regard? Practical developments show that the government did not have and did not inform the public in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Who wants to answer? Mr. Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	Dear Member, Joseph Bernick! Your question regarding the capital development strategy is entirely covered by the task given to the Ministry of Finance when considering the draft law on investment companies and investment funds on the Committee of the National Finance Assembly and the monetary issue. It is therefore our task to prepare within two months a proposal for a strategy for the development of the Slovenian capital market, which is, of course, possible only if we extend this task and strategy to the entire financial market. So it will only be possible to fully satisfy with the answer to your question when the government also adopts this document. The Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have reviewed and adopted the strategy for the development of the Slovenian economy in 1995 and is preparing a new strategy for the development of the Slovenian financial system by spring of this year and is currently in the process of considering the new strategy for the development of the Slovenian financial system until the period 2006. Slovenia, through the adoption of laws on the development and promotion of the capital market, in particular through the law on the market of securities and the establishment of a specific institution, or by the allocation of powers to control the functioning of participants in the Slovenian capital market, business and outsourcing, has entrusted the securities market agency which has undertaken these tasks and is now increasingly performing it, in accordance with the cooperation of other supervisory institutions, this is with the Bank of Slovenia and with the Office for the Control of Slovenian Insurance. We'll get to the written answer later. I can also orally add that, this year, this government will make proposals to adopt some legislative changes that, if not already, will facilitate the functioning and promotion of the capital market, which will try to promote the development of the capital market through the introduction of tax incentives, also by the burdens of other players in the Slovenian financial system, which should be aimed at increasing the volume of trade in the Slovenian capital market, on the stock market and outside it, if possible, given the smallness of Slovenia, the small potential of the Slovenian economy and, of course, the small national wealth available to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much, mag. Tolar, Secretary of State. Dr. Bernick wants to ask you an additional question. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	Yes, specifically. It is said outside that pids may turn into some sort of holding company after a rapid process, thus leaving control. Your comment on that. In addition, the Finances also write what is done. Matjaž Gantar sells Matjaž Gantar, once as a pid seller, or at the same time as the buyer in the already established holding company. What's the answer to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mag. Tolar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	I am sorry, Mr Bernick, for the exact answer to what Mr Gantar is selling to Mr Gantar, I cannot give. This is a form of securities trading outside the trading market or outside the trading of computers. The Ministry of Finance will also continue to seek to prevent, of course, in cooperation with the Securities Market Agency in particular, by amending and supplementing the laws, as well as the sub-legislative acts, in order to say that there is less and less inadequate functioning in this market, as this is undoubtedly in the interest of all of us. Once again, the Securities Market Agency shall be empowered to control and impose penalties within its jurisdiction in the determination of offences, while the main part of the jurisdiction for the commission of offences and penalties shall be under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. A proposal is also being drawn up in this area to transfer part of these powers to this supervisory institution, among others, so that the reaction can be quicker and corrected in this direction more effectively and faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The next question will be asked by colleague Miran Potč. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. In order to enable the Slovenian villages to return to the land, we have adopted a law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities and the return of their property and rights. The initial deadline for submitting applications was set at 19 February 1996 and later extended to 30.6.2001 due to difficulties in collecting the necessary data and documents. This deadline will expire in the coming days. Since the extension of the deadline for submitting requests, the National Assembly has not received any report on the implementation of the law from the competent ministry. In recent days, Mr Rudi Šimac, President of the Association of Agricultural Communities of Slovenia, in writing, warned me that, due to the difficult procedure, very little had been submitted and fewer than a dozen applications had been resolved; that the law was therefore not being implemented, that not only would it be necessary to extend the deadline for submitting applications but also to re-evaluate the content of the law and, above all, to give guidance on its implementation. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food: First. Does the Ministry have a review of the implementation of the law, how many return applications have been submitted so far, in what state their resolution is and how many have been definitively resolved? Another time. Does the Ministry assess that the objectives of the law can be achieved within the existing content and deadlines, given the situation of the applications submitted and resolved? And the third time. Does the Ministry consider that, in view of the objectives of the law, it is necessary to renew the deadline for lodging applications and perhaps simplify their content? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. Mr Potč, we also understand your question in some way as an initiative to explore the possibility that procedures should be extended or simplified. Of course, we have information at the Ministry on how many applications have been made. Let me tell you, right now, one of the rescues is also in government procedure. Of course, because I don't have the numbers on me, you'll get a written answer, equipped with the numbers you asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	Anyone else want a word with the government? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Potts wants to add a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I will be happy for this information and also for the answer if it is given to substantive questions. I would, however, allow myself because it is a matter of greater and even more specific questions which Mr Šimac has asked me, if I may give you this letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Peter Levich. You have the word Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A question for the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Health. From the media and the administration, we are aware that the European Investment Bank has offered a loan for the construction of a paediatric clinic and an oncology institute. How's that offer? I would like to know what is the promise made at the time of the adoption of the 2001 budget that, if necessary, the necessary resources will be provided for the start of the construction of the paediatric clinic this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Which of the government's representatives would like to respond? Mr. Koncan, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u159	Your Honor! The Ministry of Finance has already established appropriate contacts with this institution by examining the possibilities of the so-called "terms of reference" and similar tendering conditions to provide an appropriate basis for the hiring of such credit or for such financial assistance. That's how we expect results in the short run. We have already appointed a working group to study the matter, so the matter is in resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Comrade Valentin Pohorec will ask the government a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers and co-workers! I had two questions prepared, though. I am temporarily holding back one because I have agreed with the Minister to inform myself of the issue in more detail. On the other hand, I would also address the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education, Sport, Science. On Thursday this month, student protest assemblies were held in Ljubljana and Maribor. While the protest assembly in Maribor was based on knowledge from the means of public information, I was here, holding a peaceful, dignified, cultural meeting of our future university graduates of engineers, professors, educators, doctors, lawyers, as well as future government officials, ministers and Members all the more so as a public protest meeting or assembly. Student organisations have decided to protest the planned changes, which could also affect students. This was decided, despite explanations from the competent ministry, that the proposed changes would not affect the deterioration of the student situation. The final part of the protest rally has turned into a real attack on our country's highest authority, a national assembly or physical attack on the building of our Parliament. By e-mail, by e-mail, we were even threatened by the MPs to kill us. It was not safe to look out of the window, but to get out of the building, so that we did not speak of the grave insults, the humiliations, the threats of the angry crowd. I therefore ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport whether there was no way to prevent demonstrations through dialogue. Why wasn't better security taken care of? Who will pay for the damage suffered, by taxpayers or by agents? The latter, which is an initiative at the same time. Will an assessment or analysis of the reasons and consequences of these demonstrations be made, as should the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy and Justice and the Committee of the National Assembly for Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Minister Bohinc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you so much for asking. In this case, it was a meeting which was declared in accordance with the rules and announced in advance. The police carried out insurance and acted in accordance with police rules. No coercive measures were used. However, should such a request be made by a Member or an internal policy committee, a report which is routinely prepared within the framework of a special commission appointed by the police, which will evaluate the entire event and analyse the situation, could be submitted either to the Member or to the National Assembly or to the Internal Policy Committee, if he is interested. That's all I can say for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Franc Tsukati to the government. Dr. Cuckoo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u165	Good-bye! All in attendance, all in attendance! The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber, however. Look. We all know that health stability is very important. The sustainability of the health service is certainly also based on a stable contractual relationship with the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute. However, contracts shall be concluded on the basis of an annual agreement defined by law. We are already in the middle of the year and health care has no general agreement and no sectoral arrangements for 2001, which has not yet happened. Hospitals, health homes and even the entire health service in mid-year are not yet aware of operating conditions. The waiting years are increasing, the gap between rights of opportunity is widening, the unresolved health problems are increasing. At the same time, the Minister has made a significant breach of his confidence in the medical profession and has given so-called non-trust to the expanded professional college of gynaecology, the Commission on Medical Ethics, the Commission on Artificial Fertilization, the Health Council, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Slovenian Medical Society, when he took a firm stand and rejected their views on the known issues. I ask the Minister: When will he deal with increasingly difficult health problems? When will he manage them if he does not listen to the suggestions and arguments of the profession? Will he answer all the professional questions himself and make his own professional decisions, or will he come to the desired professional opinions by making thorough human resources changes in the professional councils and commissions first? Will the Minister continue with his intention to give professional attention to politics and not to adjust the policy to professional conclusions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you, Dr. Cuckoo. There's no minister. Secretary of State. Mag. Supreme please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u167	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you for the question, Dr. Cuckoo. Dear Members and honourable Members, I should like to apologize to the Minister, who has been here until recently and has been able to carry out certain other duties, so that he has entrusted me with informing you or answering your questions. You've asked several questions, you've put more claims to Dr. Tuckati. In a way, I still have to answer what you started building in the middle. I assure you that the ministry's work at the time of the referendum proceedings has not suffered. All employees were engaged in the normal functioning of the Ministry to the best of their ability. I say that the good and also the minister has definitely devoted most of his time, including the one outside the working room, to the work of the ministry. He was more involved with the activities himself in those, in other parts, times of the day, if that's what I can call it. That's the way it is. Health service stability. It is true that general and sectoral arrangements are late this year, but it is also true that the general agreement is just before we issue it. The fact is that we have made quite a few changes in this year's general agreement on financing the health system, financing stability, more transparent financing and these changes have required more coordination. The partners did not agree with these changes, and so a number of meetings, some harmonisation, and so on. In any case, we cannot say that these activities are significantly delayed compared to previous years. However, we are aware of the problem, we have already highlighted it several times; the problem is that all these activities start too late and that because of this, the health institutions, as described by the Stewie, are not aware of the conditions of business and therefore we have already initiated requirements and activities to begin negotiations on the general agreement this year so much earlier. When are we going to deal with more and more serious health problems? We deal with these problems all the time. These problems are on our list every day. We're following the medical profession. By the way, my personal opinion, if I may say it here, is that certain problems that you are referring to are not only part of the medical profession, but they are also questions of the organizational profession, of the economic profession, and all of these professions are included in our activities, we are discussing in every way with different professions. The waiting years are not the problem with these activities you mentioned. Waiting years are the problem of financing the health system. Waiting periods occur because there is increasing pressure on the health system and the financing or money that flows into the health treasury cannot follow all the demands of the population. Therefore, it is clear, including other health systems, that developing systems are the most developed, that they face the issue of extending waiting periods for certain elective interventions. In any case, you know that before, in the previous period, we have done a number of activities to at least those first contacts with the doctor that we have been waiting for, or we have not tolerated them in any way, that is to say, contact the outpatient activities for the first review. That's what I'd like for now. It's also about human resources change. Human resources change - in fact, we do not see that we should be over-implementing them. What we did, or what we thought was necessary for these procedures to run normally, was, or we trust those people who do certain things and do things to keep doing them. And your thesis on policy alignment. I can answer that we do not expect in any way from the profession, from any profession in the healthcare system, in order to comply with politics. I assure you, we don't have this expectation. On the contrary, as you said; politics will be subject to professional solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to all present representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues and everyone else! I will address my question to the Ministry of Labour and Family. Our laws in the field of labour law prescribe relatively strict penalties to protect workers from the exploitation of employers. In fact, the Minister of Labour can compliment the European Community on the coherence of our legislation with European legislation and in practice there are many things going wrong. If we look at the work inspection, we can see the whole credulity of their work. First, they have to look for violators of labour law with great glimmer, then they have to make entire mountains of proposals to the judge for violations of employees' rights, then the judge for offences reads all these piles of proposals, some even decides to refer cases to the Senate for offences where they are one or more than three quarters of the time old; then the Senate records the decisions establishing that the cases have become obsolete, the decisions are sent to the judges for offences, the judges for offences are transverting these decisions and send them to the inspector and the accused. Of course, each of these authorities will note that he has solved the matter, and they are all pleased that they have many files saved in their work statistics. I wonder what the effect of this whole circus is, which is even more similar to the novel by Franco Kafke called Porces. Do you not realize that in this way the state does not offer even the least effective protection to workers? Employers ridiculed all this bureaucratic apparatus for refusing to report workers for social, pension and disability insurance, and workers have to work overtime beyond the legal scope of overtime for which they are not usually paid. Workers have to work in the health of working conditions that are harmful, pay them no wages on a regular basis, and a number of other infringements are available to employers. Therefore, I ask you: Why don't you make sure that the state really protects the interests of workers also through labour inspection? Second: Why don't you propose longer antiquated deadlines for worse offences committed by employers? The current one-year relative or two-year absolute limitation period is significantly too short for employers to commit serious violations in the current situation. You need to be aware that in these matters it is not a vehicle that is wrongly parked; it is a threat to the existence of workers and their families. Third time. What will you do to prevent such absurd anomalies from occurring in the work and functioning of our organs? But I do have one more question that I'm going to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you. You're very kind. Which of the government's representatives will answer that question? Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you. Allow me to introduce myself to Staš Baloh Plahutnik, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour responsible for the field of employment. However, given that your question relates to the area of labour inspection, I would say that I would suggest that the answer to your question, or in one part also be given in writing, especially because the government has recently examined the report on the work of inspection services for 2000 and some initiatives have also been taken to improve the work of both inspection services and some proposals. I would therefore suggest that you, too, your question, which you have failed to submit in full, be submitted in writing to the Ministry and to which we will answer within the deadline of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u172	My colleague Tisovic will complete the question, she said. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u173	Yes, my supplementary question was exactly the same. I also ask you for written replies on the proportion of the old proposals made by the labour inspectors against the employer in the past year, but I am also interested in how much of the decisions have actually been made. I sincerely hope you can provide me with this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u174	You have asked for a written opinion and you will also receive it from the Government, I understand, Madam Secretary of State. I invite my colleague, Janko Webra, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I have a question for the Ministry of the Environment. Energy will need to be increasingly thought and planned to invest in renewable energy sources. This framework includes the use of wind energy or wind energy. Even in Slovenia, in particular in the municipality of Vipava, activities related to the wind power plant project have been taking place for a long time. In agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Vipava has already run for the European Union programme for the implementation of the research development project Energy potential assessment in the field of Elektro Primorska in 1998. This is an international project and, following prior agreement, the Ministry of Economic Activities of the time confirmed that in the event of a successful nomination, it would cover the required own participation of the Slovenian main partner in this project, namely the municipality of Vipava. The candidateship of the municipality of Vipava was successful and in December 1999 the European Union formally approved the project. In June 2000, the Municipality Council of Vipava gave its consent to the project of construction of wind power plants on Mount Nanos. On the same month 2000, a contract was signed between the Commission of the European Union and the Municipality of Vipava for the financing of the project and Vipava had already received EUR 98,500 from Brussels for the implementation of further activities. Slovenia's work of €21,900 has not yet been approved, although the Ministry of the Economy then committed itself to doing so. So today I ask the Ministry of the Environment and the Space to which the field of energy has been transferred: What does it say about wind energy use in Slovenia and specifically about the wind power plant project coordinated by the municipality of Vipava? Should the preparatory work continue and different decisions be made? These are the questions that are being asked in this area. And of course also: Will Slovenia or the Ministry guarantee the promise of its own participation in the project, since it is still an international project and also a question of our common credibility in concluded contracts and agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Tauzes, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Wind energy is actually a challenge for Slovenia. Slovenia has no reference in this field and in the co-region. I say a few of the results of this study, which has already been mentioned by the Member and was made at the initiative of the Municipality of Vipava and when the European Union funds are co-financed. It is the fact that four locations have been identified in this study, where more than 80 windmills can be used economically at each of the sites, on this energy field. And each of these windmills would have a power of about 750 kilowatts. In short, it is a relatively large energy facility and, of course, a new intervention into space. At the moment, one, two or three or all four sites identified as economically effective in this preliminary study are placed in the Ministry of Environment and Space or at its office. The installation of such wind power plants is, of course, subject to spatial acts, i.e. State spatial acts, i.e. spatial components of the long-term and medium-term state plan. At this point, studies are being conducted to examine all aspects of the installation or location of these power plants in such a dimension in these locations, including some controversial decisions or some pre-leminary ideas about how these matters are to be placed in protected areas are somehow exceeded. And we expect in July a presentation of the first study on suitability or the conditions for installing such wind power plants in the space. In short, the ministry considers that this is a suitable way to set the conditions for installation, because it is not a small intervention, but a relatively large intervention, it is a wind field. With regard to that second question, budget participation, the state budget under this project, you will receive a written reply. I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Rudolf Petan. You have the floor, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u179	Dear Mr President, distinguished members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A month ago, the festive opening of the railway line between Murska Sobota and Hodoš and the corresponding part on the Hungarian side. The connection between the Slovenian and Hungarian railway networks was somehow concluded and trains are currently driving on the track, so we learned from the media, from 30 kilometers per hour, some time ago 50, but rather normal. Given that the terrain was supposed to sink or skate, or, as it was heard, it was supposed to swell up because of precipitation. I don't know what's true, so I'm gonna ask that question. I would also like to say that on this section the line was already built 100 years ago and that they also had to meet the ground mechanics at the time and apparently had more happiness or better planning, better design or better performance. It should also be borne in mind that there was probably no such knowledge of soil mechanics as today, yet today such problems. I therefore ask the Minister of Transport or the representative: What is the cause of such problems - if these are really problems such as the media reported? And: What measures will the Ministry take to ensure that traffic on this track, which, of course, cost the Slovenian taxpayers billions, will not run for the snail? Is it bad planning, or is it bad performance, or is it both? What will be the sanctions? In fact, it is necessary to know that such a situation is, after all, detrimental to the Slovenian construction operation which built this route. And another question. In these days we will celebrate the 10th anniversary of Statehood, and I wonder how this event will be marked in schools. We know the lesson is coming to an end, but that's not the reason the kids can't hear anything about it. I wonder if any instructions were given by the Ministry to mark this in schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much. A few different questions to government representatives. Who will be the first to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u181	Mr. President! Thank you for the question, Mr Petan. The fact is, as you said, that the actual speed on this track was at the opening of 80 kilometers per hour, which is also, of course, under the technical possibilities of this new line, because it is in the initial rolling period until it is "transported", that is, until the lower structure of the line is established, necessary. In fact, there was a difference between the tracks in both the positive and the negative direction, according to on one side of the tunnel that was built on this section, there was about 7 centimeters above and a few hundred meters further to the slight possession, including a few centimeters, of this line. For safety reasons, a slow drive was introduced in the first phase - it appeared as soon as possible after the opening - at 50 kilometers per hour and now at 30 kilometers per hour. The investor of this track is Slovenian Railways and is currently conducting investigations and analyses of why this has occurred. The reasons can be very varied and it would be too quick to make any assessments until the results of these studies are known. For it is also possible - if you allow me to support only a little bit - that minor deviations have occurred due to the strengthening of the lower structure and that this will stabilise. Of course, the final result of this unpleasant and practical, we can say, even unacceptable things with today's state of the art and with all the other tools and knowledge in this area, but we will be able to figure out what and how to proceed further when these results of the ongoing research are known. We expect that this will be done within a maximum period of a few months, and then they will follow, as provided for by the Treaty, appropriate measures on the one hand or on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Dr. Hangel, Secretary of State. Any of the government's representatives? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u183	With regard to the celebration of the 10th anniversary of independence, perhaps only so. For several years now, a purposeful conclusion to the teaching was set just before 25 June, and schools have been instructed for several years to celebrate a state holiday; this was also a lot of talk in this house. So this week, on Friday, they usually end schools, lower classes - except finals, of course - with a lecture, they get certificates, and on these occasions they also get a good mark on most cases, some even a day earlier. However, those classes, which are finals or graduates, have ended earlier and now have some other obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you very much. My friend Petan wants to ask a further question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u185	I would ask the same question once again: were they - given that this is the 10th anniversary, we know that this is something other than 7, 6, 5, or 13. - some special instructions have been given; and what this means in most cases. Don't talk about seniors, because I know they have special duties, so let's put that aside. However, those who normally graduate from elementary school by the 8th grade, and, of course, from high school: first, second and third year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u186	The Ministry's response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u187	Special instructions for this case to give special instructions on how schools should act - we do not usually do so either. I think all our schools are quality enough, along with principals, teachers and teachers, to know that the 10th anniversary is a special holiday. At the same time, I think that, from the point of view of civic education, these matters should be marked every year on these days. So I think this day will be clearly marked everywhere. But we are not - and I don't think it makes sense that this country is so centralized that we can order everyone in particular how. Every school, according to the program, the curriculum we have, I think it can do it, and it does it itself just right and for the good of everyone at school.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Aloise Sok, a colleague of the government. You have the floor, Comrade Sok. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, fellow Member and Members! One of the daily current themes in our country is still an unfinished denationalisation. After more than eight years of carrying out this process, I think we are not even in the middle. After, I would say, the Bajuk government has been stepping up to address these problems in recent times, and these procedures have been slowing down again. As a Member, I actually have the most dealings with people who talk to me in my office about different stories. Look, I've got one of the denationalization decisions right here. It was published in 5.4.1994, Secretariat for Society Planning and Development of the Municipality of Domžale. Article 3 states that this Decision states that the debtor is an agricultural land and forest fund and the user of Agroemona Domžale. Then point 4 states that the user has the right to use the land up to 7.12. 1998 and must be returned to the beneficiary after that date. Well, of course nothing happened at the time. Only, she's out 5.4. 2000 Decision of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, exhibits Domžale, which confirmed the land as a complex and established the ownership structure by its decision. At the moment, it is such that the beneficiary can watch Agroemona continue to use its land and waits for the farm fund to return its replacement land instead of what is there. And in this relation, I ask the government representatives in fact: How does the government see the possibility of the Republic of Slovenia entering the European Union with an unfinished denationalisation. For if it is now in eight years we have not been able to complete it, I do not believe we would have completed it in the next four years. Secondly, what I would like to ask is: How does the government see Slovenian farmers entering the European Union if we do not allow them to increase their agricultural holdings? At present, the situation is that we have a separate structure somewhere between 4 and 5 hectares of farmland; our farmers cannot do so in the European Union. And a third. What function does the agricultural land fund have, which acts like a feudal gentleman - on the one hand, does not return agricultural land, on the other hand, giving the same land to former agricultural combinations, which we could see from the Court's report that some have not paid rent for several years. So, I really want to know what function this fund is in. I'd like to have a few more questions on this subject, but since you haven't allowed time to go by others, I'm going to end it myself. But please, this is essentially a question for several district ministers in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you for your kindness and understanding. I'm asking the government who wants a minister first, Mr. Bizjak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u191	I'd try to answer part of that question. As you know, the Government is denationalising an exception and is trying to accelerate this process as much as possible. To this end, it also instructed the Ministry of Justice to coordinate the implementation of denationalisation. In particular, there are problems - one of which you have also mentioned - that is, problems relating to several sources and where there are still - unfortunately - certain complications in the implementation of denationalisation itself, or, as in the case that you mentioned, in the implementation of the decisions itself. So, it's not like half the denationalisation isn't even done. According to data from the beginning of this year or February, approximately 62% of the applications were decided by value. Another time. Nor does it hold that the implementation of denationalisation should be slowed down. The data I have, which will soon be rounded up in the report as well as the data we have provided to the European Commission, show that this pace is nevertheless appropriate. Unfortunately, however, given the extent of this denationalisation, it will take quite a lot of effort to put an end to it as soon as possible - that is, according to the Government's intentions, by the end of next year. It is clear from the reports of some administrative units that many will already be decided at first stage this year on all applications, which is of course encouraging. At the same time, it is clear that I am, however, giving the whole picture that some administrative units, in particular the administrative unit of LJubljana, are still facing a very large number of these claims, which have not yet been decided on. In the case mentioned above, it is one of such special problems of denationalisation procedures, i.e. the allocation of land to the property where the land returned is an integral part of the complex. Here there are several different problems, either that it is not decided on all claims relating to the same complex, or that there are problems in handing themselves into possession. So this problem has been detected and we are trying, of course, in cooperation with all those bodies concerned, to find an appropriate solution, which would mean that such things will run as fast as possible. That's all you could do for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Simončič, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u193	I would also answer the Member's question about the structure of our farms and the transformation of farms until accession to the European Union. So it is true that we have small farms, but it is also true that the restructuring process, or the enlargement of farms that are over 10 hectares, is already under way. But this process is really slow right now. However, it has already been observed that there is a shift towards an increase in properties, and this is in fact already being done automatically, as larger farms also find that only the increase in properties also ensures an increase in their income or even greater competition in the European Union. Of course, we will also work on additional measures in the coming year to increase farms and also to increase capacity on these farms through structural agricultural policy measures. This year, we have fulfilled our commitments since the previous year, so we are expecting a reinvestment cycle in the following year. It is true, however, that we have little time at our disposal and that there will be still something to be done in the area of land policy to accelerate land transfer and the creation of larger farms.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like another question? Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Indeed, this is a problem that concerns the whole government. And the whole government should be inclined to do so, because, Mr. Minister Bizjak, you say, we have worked at an appropriate pace for 10 years and resolved 62% of the cases. If this goes on, it will take at least another ten years to solve all these cases. I am asking you whether Slovenia will be able to enter the European Union with an unresolved problem. So no one answered my question. And if you consider such decisions as I have here, among the matters resolved, for me, Mr. Minister, it is not resolved because the decision has been issued. See, even the legal authority is likely to have become, there is no time limit for a complaint in the law school. But since no one's complained in six years, I understand she's legal. But the matter that this decision has made for legal action is still unresolved in nature today. So that's what this is all about. And when you say he's getting rid of himself at the same rate as in the Bayuk government, I don't have that data. And I would be very happy if you could actually give me this information in writing. But I was able to read from the media when they discussed the number of resolved procedures for six months of one government and six months of another government, that the difference was more than 1% in solved cases. So now, if the media has informed me, then I apologize. Then here before the National Assembly, I'm just saying something that's not true. And I would like to see that it would not be real, because the problem is really big and as such the whole government should be aware of it, because people have problems. They have problems because they simply cannot solve their procedures with various complications. And they don't get their property that they're legally entitled to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I understand the minister wants to add an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u197	I would say in particular that I understand that it will be necessary to answer this question by the government. On the other hand, I would add this only to explain that there has always been a lack of intensive resolution of these matters over a period of ten years. There have been many known complications, from personnel to others, there have also been many changes to the legislation itself, which to some extent has affected the process of denationalisation. There were also many unresolved issues, which also, in their own way, hindered only the implementation of denationalisation. I only mentioned that it did not appear that the pace of denationalisation would have dropped significantly in recent times; if perhaps a percentage was lower, perhaps a lower number of cases resolved, this could have been linked to financial constraints during the period of temporary financing which did not allow additional engagement. But we will also use this data, of course, to equip the answer, so that it will be much more visible from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. My friend Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you, President, for your word. In preparation for this issue, I have written to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment and Space last week because I believe that they are both competent. But I'd like to read it again, and of course I'm asking for an answer. The urgent construction of the second railway track, which is intended to allow for additional railway links with its markets, is a speech, as we know, for several years. The coalition agreement itself on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia defines it as a key investment project, as well as the completion of the motorway programme. But time is running and tangible moves that would indicate that the project will be implemented in time is not visible. At the same time, it means that it will serve its purpose - this is to enable the only port in Slovenia and one of Slovenia's transport economy carrier pillars to maintain competitiveness, in particular in the light of the country's entry into the EU. Representatives of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways, as well as other experts in the trade flows in the North Adriatic and Central Europe, point out that, unless the second track is built in a relatively short time, mentioning the 2004 anniversary, as far as extreme 2008, Luka Koper will no longer need it because the traffic will be diverted elsewhere and its fate will be sealed. As the project is worth, according to today's estimates, no less than SIT 115 billion and the state cannot afford to see its economic viability fall, it is clear to all that the government's decision on the route's course is becoming more urgent, especially on the construction dynamics and in relation to this mode of financing. How do these ministries comment and when is the decision to expect, or is there an alternative scenario, which will nevertheless allow Luka Koper to maintain competitiveness and leadership and a connecting role between North Adriatic ports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! More than a year and a half ago, the Ministry of Transport and Communications provided the Ministry of Environment and Space with an initiative to draw up a local plan. A future plan was also drawn up to actually prepare all the necessary documents and to issue a location permit and a building permit by the end of 2002. All professional activities are still under way. This means that a comparative study for route 1/3 was made, this is a railway connection for speed up to 160 kilometers per hour on the path between Kopro and the Fan. The course of this route was coordinated with all the municipalities through which it takes place, and in fact there are no reservations here and therefore an idea project is already being developed. During this work, which is currently under way, which is formally, we have not stopped and is moving forward, in fact, there has been a signing of the minutes in which Slovenia can be said to have the most rationally defined possible future high-speed route within the V corridor between Venice, Trieste and Ljubljana. Rationally defined because the Italian side to justify or until the formal global definition of this route in this minutes actually favoured the course of the route that would take place through the Vipav Valley and with a long tunnel to Ljubljana, which, of course, is not a suitable solution for our transport connections and interests in the future, but also not included in the current spatial plan of our country. So, this route - which was - I'm talking about the high-speed route, 250 km/h within the 50th corridor, is located in Divača, which connects with the existing route, also in Postojna and then comes to Ljubljana - actually allows for the valorization of our traffic space, gives a good quality connection in, say, some distant future for the V. corridor, also links Luka Koper in one or another variant and allows, of course, the connection from the other part of the North Adriatic ports, for example, from the River to this route of the fast track. This record, of course, does not constitute any legally binding act for our country. However, in order to actually check this option, because in this case - now that this was signed - the course of this route for speed up to 250 km/h the construction of a fast railway connection, this is the connection for speed up to 250 km/h, here have two events that would actually separate in Black Kal. Due to the greater needed curves of the high speed line, to highlight 250 and more kilometres per hour, it would take a slightly longer route, while the link between Kopro and Divac from 160 to an hour would be a little shorter and run out of this route. As a result, all activities are now being carried out in preparation of an ideal project at a speed of up to 160 kilometres per hour - or so-called variant 1/3 - on the path between Kopro and Black Kal and for the Theatre Station. In parallel with the Annexes we also ordered a comparative study for the course of the rapid track - this is for speeds of 250 kilometres per hour - from Black Kal to Divaca to compare with the existing version 1/3 and the result of this comparative study will, of course, be forwarded to the government for assessment. And based on this assessment, we will continue to develop an idea project also on the then selected variants of the route between Black Kal and Divinator. This is the answer to the first part of the question. Timely possible - it is also quite interesting; therefore, in relation to this additional activity, we estimate that it will actually take about 2 to 3 months, which means, in fact, a very modest delay for such a large project. It is not until September of this year that we will have a decision on which route the link between Black Kal and Fan: either by variant 1/3 or possibly from Black Kal to Divaca on the 250km-to-hour route. Part two of the issue concerning funding. The funding for the preparation of the necessary professional bases was provided in the budget last year, including in the guarantee law which earmarked for this purpose for last year about a billion tolars, and is also provided to the extent necessary in the approved budget for the current year. However, as regards the necessary provision for the construction of this railway connection, it will, of course, be necessary to define at the level of the government, to what extent and for what costs it would also be reasonable to attract private capital in this case; which I must say is not a particular problem. For example, under certain guarantees, governments are also building a fast track, say, 100 kilometers long in the Netherlands. However, the government, in this case, has given concessions for 50 years and in fact annually provides the concessionaire with reimbursement of costs, which means credit and everything else and an adequate profit which, of course, every concessionaire with such a route wants to create. I would say, therefore, that as far as funding is concerned, there will be a need to define the funding model, some variants of a possible funding method. When these options are addressed, as I have mentioned now the 1/3 variants and possible follow-up to the high-speed track, the government will also decide on how to finance under the proposed options - the most favourable way to finance. Therefore, it is not necessary to say that the funds were foreseen in the changes and additions to the national rail infrastructure development programme. Of course, as you know, because of the funding opportunities we have and, of course, because of the priority that has been adopted in the area of public transport infrastructure, it is indeed difficult to expect that the funds envisaged in the amendments and additions will be presented in the context of these changes and that the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure will also be considered in this assembly, so that these funds can in fact also cover the costs needed in order for this section to be built up. In other words: there will have to be some way to find a way of delaying payment obligations by the State. As I said: providing such funds either within the framework of a concession or in any other form is not problematic. The only problem is the decision of the country and the assessment to what extent and how much funding the country can make during the period when it is supposed to be built is still planned by the end of 2006 - how much of this funding can the State provide for this necessary development and investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure say that the Minister's response is usually no longer than 10 minutes long, so I didn't interrupt. We are faced with two extremes, on the one hand by the government's statement that it will give a written answer, to the other with a very comprehensive response. Of course, I am not defending this, but I am inviting everyone who will answer Members' questions not to waste time. Please ask a question, colleague mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I have one question, one initiative; that is, I am asking the Minister for Environment and Space. The existing building legislation provides for the acquisition of a usable permit under a simplified procedure for buildings built before 1967 in which the business activity is carried out and on the basis of the relevant authorisations under Article 4 of the Company Act or other craft permits. In some cases, the existing spatial implementation act or the municipal regulatory plan provides for a different arrangement from the existing one and provides, for example, for the demolition of such business facilities. The question is: does the spatial implementing act, or the municipal regulatory plan, which provides for the destruction of certain business facilities, where the activity is lawfully carried out, prevent the acquisition of a usable permit for these buildings? Let me explain on the case. In one municipality there is an object where business activities are carried out on the basis of the approval of an administrative unit under Article 4 of the Company Act. Upon obtaining this authorisation, the administrative unit, following an appropriate administrative procedure, found that the business activity in this facility had taken place before and before 1967. Later, in the 1990s, the municipality adopted a regulatory plan which envisions the demolition of this facility and at the site of the facility foresees a green area as a free area, allowing for a view of a city sight. As a result of such an envisaged solution in the municipality's management plan, is it impossible for the owner of the facility to obtain a valid permit for this facility? That's the first question. The other is an initiative addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Graduates of higher education receive higher education, education VI after completion of the study. Levels. These schools are also attended by candidates who could easily complete at least a university and obtain a VII. level of education. The current legislation in Slovenia does not provide for the possibility of graduates of higher education to continue the study directly. For admission to higher education, they depend on the good will of the higher vocational schools, which provide different conditions for them to continue: some must be enrolled in the first year, other conditions and enter the second year with differential examinations, only few can continue in the third year. Successful high school students should have the formal possibility of a direct continuation of higher education in the same direction as entering the third year. This could be done if a degree study, a first degree with a two-year study and a second degree with a three-year to four-year study were reintroduced in Slovenia. This would enable students to complete their first - grade or second - grade studies. This is how studies are known in some countries, such as Germany. I propose that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of the Republic of Slovenia prepare appropriate grounds for the adoption of legislation on the possibility of a two-step study in higher vocational schools. On the basis of such legislation, some higher vocational schools would, of course, be transformed into three-year vocational schools if they were to comply with the law on prescribed conditions, so that the successful students of higher education would be able to continue their studies directly at the second level after the completion of the first stage so that the school system would become vertically open.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Answer that question. Please, mag. Tauzes, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Since this is a concrete case, it would be appropriate, of course, to get a written question concerning spatial arrangements, so that we will, of course, answer more precisely. But in principle it is true that spatial acts of course cannot interfere in any way with the rights arising from property ownership. Even less, spatial acts may interfere with something retroactive, i.e. some rights arising from property rights to real estate, whether it is a valid license or something else, and of course they retroactively correct it. However, given the concrete and very clear question, it would be appropriate to have a file so that we can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Zupan has the floor. Would you like to respond further? I'm sorry, Mrs. Zupan. Do you want to add a question or do you expect an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have not received any response to the initiative, I would ask that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport define itself in writing or respond to me in any way. Also the Ministry of Environment and Space. Otherwise, I can summarise this issue from the magnetogram, and I will address it and also send it in writing to both ministries, both the initiative and the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u209	I'll be brief. You yourself have found that the transition from higher to higher education is possible according to the law and the rules prescribed by the university, given that it is an admission to higher education, or an independent higher education institution and, of course, they have their autonomy. I think we will come to Parliament relatively quickly - the government will come - with a change in the sense of international agreements, which have also been discussed in recent years, to shorten university studies from four to three years or different forms. It is true, however, that higher education programmes are not university study programmes, so it will have to be judged. Existing higher education programmes are something other than old higher education programmes - existing, current higher education programmes are something other than old higher education programmes implemented in different universities and other higher education institutions. And that's what you're talking about, if I know correctly. In this regard, given that you have given an initiative, I think that we will have an answer, or our vision, to be presented to you by colleagues from higher education at a time that is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u210	Mag. The viscous is satisfied. My colleague Maja Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to refer this question to Dr Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. On the basis of the decision of the National Assembly of 18.4. of this year setting the date of initiation of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment of their areas, if limited to this part of the decision, the proposals shall be submitted by the eligible applicants for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and for the determination of their areas by 30.6.2001. I ask why a government service for local self-government, or a ruling coalition, prevents or in advance deters eligible applicants from allowing new municipalities to be established and intimidated by the reduction of financial resources. Such views also appear in the media when this topic is addressed. We know that the European Union warns that we are under-invoking local self-government. On the other hand, we have been able to read that we are invited to resist the crushing of the congregations. So I ask: Have any expert analyses been made to prove that small congregations are irrational, but when we know that they do more in small municipalities, they do less because they act more rationally and can best approach the management of the citizens in the matters they most concern, because that is also the purpose of local self-government? And the next question. How will the proposals of those candidates with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants be considered for the establishment of a new congregation, as we know so far; 96 times this condition has been violated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you for asking. Who's going to answer? Minister, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u213	Yes, I thank you for the question, although I must say that I do not know the positions of the government, nor the coalition, nor the service of local self-government in the sense that a priori would deter anyone or refuse to apply. All that has been said on our part in this regard is to strive for consistent respect for the legal criteria for the establishment of congregations. I don't know what kind of analytics or anything about it. In our ministry or local self-government service, no analysis has been made on how the efficiency of the municipalities according to their size class, but some studies or professional bases have been developed in terms of more efficient management or management of municipalities and a more efficient funding system. A new law on local self-government is being prepared. We are also planning for the autumn period a more thorough revision of the system's legislation in the field of local self-government in order to draft a new law on municipalities, and the law on local self-government would then be only a system-wide regulation to deal with the most fundamental issues of local self-government. We have somehow examined this comparatively, European prospects in this area, and we believe that the further development of local self-government - or regulatory arrangements - should lead to one system law and then the law on municipalities and provinces. But these are things that are still in the stage of professional study and do not have a direct connection with the activity that the honourable Member mentions, which is tied to the deadline of 30 June. It is true that in Slovenia there are currently municipalities, which are large if we measure this by the number of people from 300 to 300 000. In short, the size class is huge and an analysis of the effectiveness of this system will be needed from this angle. So much to say, if you want any more detailed explanations, I can't promise you analyses and studies of this. I assure you, however, that more than the stated position to comply with the legal criteria has not been expressed or any other position has been taken to discourage the establishment of new congregations, expressed by our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? You don't want to. Thank you. Member Ivan Mamić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u215	Hello, all present, what's left of us, even 20%, I think. The first question is addressed to Mr Gantar. Unless he's the one I hope he'll answer anyway. Thank you. This month, I have seen shocking news about the granting of mobile phone concessions. The Supreme Court has definitively concluded that the award of concessions to the GSM 900 system was not lawful. The Board of Appeal rejected Simobil's complaint that the Government's decision to grant concessions had been lifted. On the basis of the judgment, the Supreme Court stated that the Government decision did not contain any grounds for the decisive facts which were relevant to the decision. I'm asking the Ministry what you'll do. Will you take Simobil's concession rights? Are you going to pay the defendant a dizzyingly high compensation for the loss of profits? When and with what will you pay? Do you have expenditure on such compensations that are awarded by the courts provided for in the budget? Will anyone be responsible for such great harm to the State? Who is specifically responsible for this concrete decision on the award of concessions issued under President Drnovsk? And another question. After a few months of waiting and several requests and interventions, I finally got to my question about the dedicated use of the funds raised by the petrol tolar. In its reply, the Government states that the law in force, the petrol toll, no longer applies, because of the enforcement of the new tax legislation, namely value added tax and excise duty on oil derivatives. As a result, only as much as budgeted is allocated to new road network construction programmes. For this year, however, very little investment in road infrastructure is foreseen in the budget. Three years ago, 82 tolars were needed for the letter of the most expensive petrol, and now it costs a litre of comparable gasoline to 188.5 tolars. I don't understand how the government can claim at more than 100% price hikes over three years that it's cut the gas toll. I think it's about misleading people. I'm asking the person who put together the relevant answer that I got last week, where more than 100 tolars go than every litre of gas sold or what it is about the road program. Unfortunately, I don't know who this person is, because no one has been signed to answer. I assume it's someone from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I think the Secretary of State will answer the first question, Dr. Tomaž Kalin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course I'd like to apologize to my minister. Those of you who remember from your college years, what happened if you came to the exam and there wasn't a professor, you probably appreciate that Dr. Gantar went to the exams today, which he predicted a while ago. That's why I'm gonna try and answer that. This problem of the Debit is, of course, very complicated and stems from the times when I was still on the other side of the fence and rumbled over the government's policy on telecommunications policy. It's extremely complicated. At this point, nothing has ever happened that would force the government to pay any compensation. This is about a few lawsuits that are related to each other - in part. We would rather explain this problem to you in writing because it is too complicated to try to explain it in this way and in the air of the unexpected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you. I think the second part will be answered by Secretary of State Concan Darko. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! We've drawn up this position, I think, in the Ministry of Finance. The fact is that the legal basis of the Act on Transport Tax, which no longer applies, is not that for this purpose the transport tax, intended, should be set aside as a gas toll. That is why, of course, we do not have a legal basis for this kind of design. Now, where do these money collected from value added tax - what you're saying - go to the integral budget, of course, from which it is then financed back. More than that, as in the answer, we can't write it down. There is no legal basis for this, but the new VAT law does not know such a solution, so that there will be a need to seek from other budgetary sources a potentially larger road construction line. But of course it's not in our jurisdiction - directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you. Only Bevk will ask you a question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I have a question for representatives of the government. One of the conditions for the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union is the adoption of the acquis of the European Union and the proven competence for its implementation. This involves translating some 80,000 pages of material. I would like to know how much has been translated so far and how much of this has been verified since only certified translations are used in the official procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer? Mr. Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u223	[[Just Zbogar, Secretary of State in the Foreign Ministry.]] I would only take over the question which is intended to serve the government for European affairs. I don't think there's anyone here to answer. I know that the problem of translating the European acquis is simply the problem of lack of translators. All European countries have the same amount of laws to be translated, regardless of the size of the country and the number of inhabitants. Of course, this is a serious problem with which the government service for European affairs is seriously engaged. I don't know the numbers myself, but I'll pass on the question to them and they'll answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Comrade Cimperman, I'd like to invite a colleague of Chebul's, Comrade Puksich. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u225	A respected choir! My question and initiative concerns the motorway section of Arja Vas-Vransko or the transport regime on it and are intended for the Ministry of Transport. In 1992, 1993 and 1994, when we were working in the Savina Valley to put this highway section into space, one of the most vehement or convincing arguments for putting this highway section into space was also the promised open-ended regime for the use of the motorway. When we went more towards the end, it finally turned out that there must be a toll station somewhere, and a compromise was made with the temporary toll station Vransko, which makes it impossible for the citizens of Savinjska Valley to use the highway under promised conditions or under the same conditions as for all other inhabitants of Savinjska Valley. This condition is now approaching or the opening of the Vransko-Blagovica motorway section or the Vransko-Trojana subsection. I therefore ask the Ministry of Transport: When is this toll station intended to be terminated? The second point concerns the unfinished construction of this motorway section. In fact, at this point, we are faced with the fact that, despite the opening that was done years ago, not all the works related to this motorway section have yet been carried out and, above all, the parcels have not been completed and not all the landowners used to build this motorway section have been paid. As an argument that this cannot happen, the problem of the free transfer of land belonging to the municipalities of the Lower Savinja Valley to the state of Slovenia is now cited. This free transfer, however, has taken place in the decisions of the municipal council. These decisions were just what they were and were mainly due to the fact that Dars as an investor did not perform all the promised additional parts related to this motorway section. As an example, I will only point out that the promise regarding the construction of the sidewalk through Šempeter, which was also made in writing by the administration of Darsa, in the form of a contract between the administration of Darsa and the municipality of Žalec, has not been fulfilled. Misunderstanding or rejecting the signing of a free transfer contract for these lands - by the way, it is more than 10 hectares of land owned by these municipalities - is also conditioned by this - I will conclude immediately, but I think I am the last one - that Dars is at the same time defending himself from transferring to the municipalities of roads and road sections which were built as compensation for the roads we are transferring to the state of Slovenia. I therefore urge the Ministry to explore the possibility of transferring these infrastructure facilities, which are not a highway in nature, to the municipalities which are supposed to manage, maintain and otherwise regulate these infrastructure facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Then follow my previous warning. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the question was very broad. I would like to brief you, studies have been done concerning actual collection or non-collection of tolls. There will also be some results from this and an appropriate proposal will be prepared. As far as the Vransko toll station is concerned, you would be answered in writing. As for this, the last question about the transfer of roads to the municipality is state roads, not state roads, local roads to the municipality, but I am surprised and I am sure that this will be done very quickly because the means to build motorways as well as to maintain state roads are extremely lacking, in which case the municipality would actually arrange this. I'm surprised he hasn't. However, we will answer your entire web of questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. My friend Tanko. Thus, we have exhausted a list of Members and Members who wanted to ask the government a question. I would like to thank the representatives of the Government, once again asking the Government to ensure, as far as possible, that ministers are present at this item in the agenda and answer the question of Members and Members. I'm adjourning the meeting. We will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. by addressing item 2 of the agenda and then by order. Thank you for attending the meeting. I wish you a pleasant evening.
