ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to proceed with the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Bogdan Barovich, Yuri Malovršev, Pavel Rupar, Ivan Bozič, Franc Sušnik, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, mag. Janez Kramberger, Vili Trofenik, Valentin Pohorec, Janez Cimperman, Rudolf Petan, Milan Kopushar, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, Josef Špindler, Branko Janc, Andrej Gerenčer and Franc Pukšič, as well as Mr Alojz Peterle. But Mr. Christmas is between us. Since we will be able to detect presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the quorum key. We're picking up the presence! There are 42 of us here. I think there's more of us in the hall. Also, colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity, please, it's 10 o'clock in the morning to join us so we can get started. In accordance with the rules of procedure, we will determine the presence of a second time. We're picking up the presence! There are 46 Members of Parliament present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited ministers and ministers, state secretaries, secretaries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I say hello to you both. Today's 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the adjournment of 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY, BY CONTINUING THE CONSIDERATION OF THE SPECIAL WORK OF THE SUPPLEMENTED PROPOSAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2002 AND THEN AS FOLLOWS. Yesterday we stopped on page 22 of the amendments to the 2002 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am putting to the debate and decision an amendment to the sub-programme Study Assistance, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed Igor Štemberger. The content of the amendment itself, which is very extensive, as indicated in the amendment review and also in the explanatory memorandum, is not an integral part of the amendment review. So I am opening a debate on this amendment. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If not for another reason, this amendment deserves attention because it's written on 73 pages. If we open up any new discipline, it's certainly the most extensive. However, this is an amendment, which, according to the size of the funds, is quite extensive, 522 million, and we have tabled it because we believe that the government should have done so by itself. This is a programme for the restoration of student housing in 2001-2006, which was adopted by the government in April 2000. However, we have tabled the amendment on the basis of information that only the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has drawn up a balance between this programme and just found that exactly as much money as we have proposed in the proposed amendment is missing. What bothers us in the first place is that the programme has already been delayed. Instead of starting in 2001, he moved to 2002. With this amendment, we want to break the practice of this government that it denies its own decisions and accepts obligations with a fig in its pocket. In addition, the government has also taken a very incomprehensible decision to reduce subsidies to students seeking rooms in private directing from 9,000 to 3,000 to 3,000, or with an excuse to increase the number of beneficiaries. However, we believe that for 3,000 tolars, the costs of obtaining this subsidy are already higher than would have been the effects. The government thus directly supports the placement of rooms in black. Such a conclusion would be logical if these new student homes were first built in order to be sufficient, then we could go to a reduction of these subsidies, but not to do exactly the opposite and in breach of its own conclusions and not implement the programme in a timely manner. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have also decided that these additional 520 million should not be needed, for example, to take one or two consumers, we have taken on average 0.04%, a small sum for each consumer. Here we have eliminated investments in health care, scholarships, parental and social benefits, investments in the environment and housing. That's why the amendment is so extensive. That is why I appeal to the Members to support this amendment, because it should essentially be a government amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Pece, please, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! Even in the Slovenian national party, it seems to us that if the government decides on an individual project, if the government prepares and stands behind the project, it will also be realized. There are too many things open in our society, where, on the one hand, the government represents some solutions, and on the other hand, it does not provide financial support for these solutions. Indeed, as the proposaler said, it is one of the more extensive, financially more extensive amendments. However, since the funds are fully derived from all the items under the 2002 budget, we are also convinced that we should not, or that such an intervention in the budget would not constitute a material deprivation of other budget consumers, i.e. those to whom the money is taken. On the other hand, it must be said that the amendment is intended for student assistance. This means long-term investment in the framework of the Republic of Slovenia, our society, Slovenians and Slovenia. I think this is one of the foundations on which our society should be based - this is future knowledge, this is future capital. In our party too, we appeal to all Members, those who are not in any way bound in writing, that you should not participate in supporting the amendments, to do so and thereby contribute to this domestic capital that we will still need in the coming years of so-called accession to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word. I must say that on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, we have made a very detailed budget, given a lot of views and that the government has taken them into account in most cases. This resource has received more than 500 million additional resources in the additional budget, according to others. At the time when we decided what we were supposed to support, it was mainly science with one half billion, then both universities, then investments, and the government complemented it with its proposal. However, with regard to assistance for schoolchildren, it must be said that this society is social and I am thanking the government for what it has done for this area. But I'm not gonna pour it, like some people do with manure. However, I must say that all of us Members of this House, which we have accepted, have decided to give 9 billion 380 thousand dollars, of which 995 million are in primary school, 5 billion 140 million in secondary education and 3 billion 244 million in study aid. This country does not look poorly through these numbers to help those for whom this amendment is written. I must say that I would like to take my own stand for more resources, because not all the problems are solved here. But within the given options we have, it seems to me that this thing, given the rest of the areas, is quite well covered, especially given that the construction of dormitory beds begins this year. Only this construction will spend about one billion 300 million tolars somewhere, so that these students who are coming to college, either in Maribor, Ljubljana or perhaps even in Koper, will enjoy a little bit. This is why, within the given options, although we will not support these things with the heavy heart. However, this matter was not very exposed to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport when we adopted this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Tomažić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Štemberger. I would just like to give a brief explanation of the project, the so-called 4500 bed project, in the sense that this project does not stand It was this year that the Programme Council project was appointed to take care of this programme. The programme was adopted, in preparation or in signature there is an agreement with municipalities to obtain individual locations for these student homes and talks on credit are under way with the European Investment Bank. In fact, this project is intensive and is taking place very intensively. Perhaps only in the information that the information you gave about the subsidies is very old. In fact, for a month now, the subsidies are also the subsidies you were talking about, like, 9,000 tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and thank you for your answers. We just wanted to draw attention to the fact that this project has already moved from the one-year plan and we just want it to stop happening to work on the plan. That's why it's our amendment. It is true that the ministry or government itself has put an additional 100 million on this item, but at the same time it is only for obligations in this year another 300 million. So we're immediately down 200. That is why we have also proposed, because we have summarised the Ministry of Education's balance of needs. We didn't invent anything here or make it up. I continue to ask Members to give serious thought to their support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	I will also support this amendment, of course, because I am the first to be signed. The amendment itself is designed in such a way that those 0.41 mills, as far as we take from almost each item, do not seriously endanger any program where we take this money. That's why I think it's worth supporting. If any program that this leak poses poses is 0.41 props, we are ready to withdraw it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this amendment again, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the sub-programme of Study Assistance. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted.We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy for the new sub-programme. Establishment of higher and higher education regional centres. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy for the new sub-programme Co-financing of the educational deficit. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. One amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members, has been tabled to the Youth Programme sub-programme with the first signed by Petr Levič. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the consumer of the Ministry of the Economy, we take money and give it to youth programs, namely youth hotels. It is unsustainable that after so many years of efforts Ljubljana does not have the necessary youth accommodation. It's almost right before realisation. The current funds of the RS Office for Youth do not allow investment in youth accommodation in Ljubljana, but only to complete past investments. Youth accommodation in the capital is a necessity if we are to maintain the trend of tourism development, taking into account the fact that the number of young tourists per year is increasing. The project of youth accommodation is not only important for Ljubljana's tourist infrastructure, but also for the promotion of Ljubljana and Slovenia in the world. According to the information we have, Slovenia is right on the tail of the list of European countries concerning infrastructure for young people, especially youth accommodations. Most of the countries in transition are also ahead of us. Of course, it is always problematic and so far the debate on the budget shows when we come to the amendments that someone needs to be taken away. In reviewing the draft budget, I have found that the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism has an item that speaks about promoting the development of tourism infrastructure. Since the construction of the youth accommodation network certainly includes youth accommodations, I appeal to you to support this amendment. This amendment does not undermine any relationship and does not affect a completely different area, but in some way from the same bag transfers funds from one ministry to another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 14 to 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're with the user of the Ministry of Culture. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	I would suggest that we go back to yesterday's cut-off point to the Ministry of Environment and Space, because now Mr. Minister is here [[yesterday he wasn't there to give explanations]] . I think it's more normal to go back to that and then move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. He just had a conversation with the Minister. We can also conclude peacefully with the Ministry of Culture and then return to the consideration of the amendments to the sub-programmes of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, for your concern, however. We're with the user of the Ministry of Culture. The sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture is accompanied by two amendments, under order number 1, the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Josef Školč, noting that the amendment is contained in the amendment of the Committee on Finance. Under order number 2, please refer attention to the amended amendment to the updated draft budget for 2002 of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which bears the date 28.1.2001. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Since the debate is open at this moment only about the part of the amendments relating to media and audiovisual culture, but we have two solutions, one that is supported with me by the good 60 members of the National Assembly, and on the other hand we have the solution proposed by the Finance Committee, also happens in all the following amendments. I would therefore like to say that this amendment solves the problem created by the adoption of the Media Act and foresees that in the process of approximation, it is necessary to provide the European Union with money to enable those working in the field of audiovisual culture to speak a specific language, which can also be Slovenian, to participate in the same way as agriculture or others in the means and to preserve the visibility of Slovenian cultural space through this audiovisual speech. Not one, not the other, says neither the amendment of the Group of Members, nor the amendment of the Committee do not provide as much funding as the law has provided for. But the law provided for a budget to refresh your memory, 400 million dollars. Given the fact that we are talking in this case about the identity of Slovenian cultural space, this is, I will say, a small amount of funds in the higher-a-vis tasks entrusted to this area. At this point, I think it is very good that practically the entire National Assembly has taken sides, let's say the law and somehow made a compromise, including the higher-a-vis government and in particular the Ministry of Finance, that we have received at least reduced funds on these and also other items. It is therefore reasonable for me to invite other signatories to accept these reduced amounts, which were foreseen by this item and by other committees, and on this occasion, because it has not been possible to find them all again, because there is never all of them in the Chamber, that we have voted practically for what we together have managed to say, to seize this fair effort in order to see this area, as the Minister has said, as a matter of priority in the Memorandum, as a matter of priority in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one, which is under review of the amendments. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 15 to 30. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has not been adopted in the review. We are moving on to the amendment we have in addition to the review, date 28.11. to the sub-programme of the Amendments tabled by the Committee. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present and 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on the sub-programme Library and Publishing, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Josef Školč. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 29. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a discussion and decision on two amendments to the Pet Culture sub-programme. Under one is the amendment of a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Školč and under two groups of Members with first-signed Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, an amendment under one. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 35. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 35. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. To discuss and decide, I am making amendments to the Group of Members with the first signed by Josef Školč to the Sub-programme Other Programmes in Culture. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 29. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Heritage. Three amendments have been tabled for the Sub-programme Real Estate Cultural Heritage. Under one is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Školč, under order number two is the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Davorin Terčon and under three groups of Members with the first-signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision-making of the Lord Christmas, please. [[...]] If there's anyone, Mr. Potts, I think you've made a mistake in joining us. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'm going to talk about another amendment that's been tabled for the Tiger Monument. We were told on the Committee on Finance that it would be second place, and I would also like to hear due to correctness in the Chamber that there would be no later excuses for not having planned money for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I ask the government representatives whether anyone will answer Mr Christmas's question. Minister, Mrs. Richtereva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	I'm sorry. Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the programme of the administration for cultural heritage, including under the heading Protection of immovable cultural heritage, this programme is covered and will be covered through a project call, which will result after the adoption of the budget, also through an invitation to tender for the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 30. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the amendment under order number two has not been accepted. We're still deciding on an amendment under three. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. I think there's more of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the third amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Second, we decide on an amendment under order number three. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment under three has not been accepted. We are therefore returning to the user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. We're moving to the debate on page 13 of the amendment review. An amendment of the first-signed group of Members has been tabled to the sub-programme Planning, water protection and water management. Andrey Bajuk. I'm putting him to the debate and then to the decision-making. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you, Madam President, that this amendment has already been put to the debate and that questions have been raised with this amendment, to which we expect the reply of the Minister for Environment and Space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The amendment foresees that the Ministry of Environment and Space would receive an additional 160 million dollars for the water protection regime. If I understand correctly, there is a desire for this money to be directed towards the Dravinja watercourse. Dravinja Voivodship does not currently have a location plan for flood safety arrangements. This location plan is expected to be completed in 2002. The means for this shall be provided in the second item, which shall refer to the preparation of the documentation. On the basis of the location plan to be drawn up in 2002, technical documentation for specific interventions will be drawn up. This will be done in the course of 2003. For this too, the 2003 draft budget already provides for an appropriate amount in the preparation of the technical documentation. You may be interested in whether funds are made for direct investment or concrete work. No such funds are provided here. Just to clarify, even if the amendment of these 160 million tolars had been passed on to this programme, it would not have been possible for Dravinja to spend these funds in 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I will now react more to the implementation of the Minister, because the next amendment that we have tabled is actually me in the first investor. But this is about editing Dravinja's watercourse. I am appalled that the Minister prefers to say that there is no local plan for regulating flood safety for the Dravinja watercourse. I don't know how such a move can be made and with such excuses seven years in a row, seven years in a row. In 1997, when we adopted the budget in December, the Minister of Gantar said of this speaker - and I think it stems from the same political option as the Minister of Digger, so that these funds could be made available so that next year they could start working anyway, only if it were too late in December that year, but they could no longer be used that year. Now the Minister is citing the site plans for flood safety arrangements. That's what he said last year. The excuses are from year to year for some change. But this means that these funds have already been in budgets in the past years and that money has been spent in the past years unintended. And this is a disgrace to this country, shame! Look, this valley is one of the most deserted valleys in Slovenia, on the edge of Haloz. I hope that there will be at least this feeling or, as some Members of this House said in yesterday's debate, that they will take their seats and the Haloses were mentioned. In fact, it is the forgotten people, the forgotten valley, for 800 hectares of the flood zone, which each year - last year was an exception because it was a drought - otherwise more than once a year, it also floods up to nine times a year. And you say there's no money, there's no plans, that's literally humiliating to hear. This is not because the government does not want to be interested in these people and in these demographically endangered areas. At the same time, the whole of Slovenia pays 0.36 tolls for the heating of Ljubljana, for Toplarna Ljubljana, 2,500 tolars on average per family. Here, where there is interest, there is money, and then this money flows, of course, Ljubljana is boiling in money, buying investment banks and so on! And that's the same thing in Minister Kopach's department. There is not only solidarity, there is direct money spill and they say cogeneration, I am for it, but it is not the only cogeneration that is in Slovenia. Then why doesn't he think of others? In fact, there is a need for solidarity, some sense, some sense of settlement of Slovenia, so that such valleys will not remain empty. But it's not here, and there are excuses that are so false! From year to year, Minister Gantar spoke the same way even though he was directly promising money in Makola, at a pre-election assembly in 1996. And that is not at least the point of success between ministers, if the former minister of the same government has not fulfilled from the same option that nothing applies to the other. Look at this money actually from that part of Slovenia. If the minister had at least a hundred of that sense of concern that he had for Kota, he would have been this money a long time ago! Colleagues and colleagues, if you have a social sense in you, if you are concerned that Slovenia will not remain just a capital, but everything else is deserted, infested - I mean metaphorically, a desert where people will see no perspective, no chances of staying, then imagine. Please vote for this amendment or the next amendment, which is on the same content, is only listed under another matter. How is it not possible in this country that politics also "care" for one such important thing, which is on the edge here with Ljubljana, that it does not matter that it is better to walk mosquitoes and butterflies and that, then even fishermen can go there and get those insects for thorns and so on. Don't look like that! Give a chance to survive in that area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr Minister has said that documentation is being prepared and that he has somehow promised that the site documentation will be made in 2002 and that in 2003 the project will still not be able to make money for the investment itself if I understand it correctly. But it is clear, what my predecessor also said, that only from documents, without the matter being carried out in practice, this population that lives there, which must stand and stand on this part of Slovenia, will not benefit much from the papers themselves. Of course, this thing has been going on for years. I expect the Member of Parliament, Mrs Lidija Majnik, who is very well aware of this issue, to say a word. Yesterday, in the debate, she took a very strong stand for Haloze, concerning the regulation and expansion of vineyards. Of course, the problem is that in this area only wine growing without a regulated infrastructure does not mean much. This valley, flooded by the Dravinja River, I don't know, 50 years old, this valley is vital for access to Haloz. It happens every year, year after year, because of a mistake once made, when the river was partly regulated in the upper stream and remained unregulated in its lower stream, that there is an annual flood. These floods damage both infrastructure and the entire economy. We have witnessed, when practically the lands that farmers have reorganized over and over again, and pastures have literally destroyed the flood. I don't know if you can imagine that. Perhaps it would be right for this national assembly to take place once, because it would not be necessary for you to just go there, because in several areas of Slovenia there is such a problem to see what it looks like. Then it would probably be easier to understand these people's expectations. I don't know if 160 million is so much money that this National Assembly can simply say, "We won't support it, we won't solve it." At least with this approach, I'd say they have some sympathy for these people. I tell you, it will be very sad when more households in the Haloz area are empty when the white smoke stops from these houses. Today they are still there, on top you can see the houses from which you smoke, but these houses are getting smaller and fewer and fewer young people are in this area. Then I tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues, nothing helps us to invest in hectares of vineyards, not in orchards, if there is simply no workforce left there, if there are no more people to process it. I would really like Mrs Majnikov to express her opinion on this amendment, because she knows this problem very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	When regulating watercourses in Slovenia in recent years or even the last decade, we can observe the declining trend in the amount of resources in the state budget. I think this trend has continued there since 1992, or maybe 1991. Every year there's less of that money. On the other hand, it is paradoxical that each year, at the end of the year, part of this money remains unused in the budget. Why? Since the abolition of the self-government interest in Slovenia in 1990, there has in fact been no systematic planning of interventions into watercourses. We've got planning, planning problems all the time. As a result, this is more of an organisational problem than a monetary problem. At least this minute. We are trying to regulate this problem in the new Water Act, in the draft Water Act, which you will receive this year at the second reading. I hope that it will also be adopted later in the third reading sometime in March, April, if everything goes well. It introduces an intra-budget water fund with which we introduce a novelty. This novelty is important for planning because the intra-budgetary water fund is not bound by the budgetary provisions relating to the end of the calendar year. What's been going on so far? Budgets were adopted late, sometimes in the middle of the year, then there is no time for public calls, but when there are some public calls and then work is done at perhaps the most inappropriate time of the year. This makes them less quality and more expensive. That is why we need some stability in the water economy. This stability, I am sure, will be ensured by the functioning of this intra-budgetary water fund, as proposed in the second reading of the Water Bill. In addition, in the proposal for a Water Act, I hope that you will agree to this provision which will introduce a provision on an authorised planner into Slovenia's legal order or water management. We plan this to be a water economic institute. In this way, we will regain or organize a systematic planning service that is not available at this time, and that also makes it impossible to spend fewer and fewer resources. This is why a remote location plan may be heard in 2002 and the project documentation in 2003. But believe me, there's so much disorder as there is on Dravin somewhere else. This moment is a priority within the ministry, I can say, especially Savinja and the location plan for Savinja. However, I know that he is in a hurry in many areas or in many rivers. As best we can, we will try to put an end to this backlog, which is a decade long, as soon as possible. But you have to understand that this doesn't work overnight, not in a year. I've only been Minister for this area for a year. Let me get this straight. Even if these 160 million tolars were transferred from the Ministry of Information Society to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, and this would, of course, serve as a minister, I would point out once again that this is inappropriate, because it is not appropriate for these funds, I speak for Dravinja, there is no project documentation and therefore we could not even spend them. This amendment, of course, cannot mean any concrete benefit for the inhabitants of Dravinja in 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. First Mr. Sok, then Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you. I think, Mr. Minister, well, honestly, you just said that Savinja's priority is and that you're dealing with that problem as a minister. At the same time, you said that you were aware that there were problems elsewhere. However, I cannot agree with you that this is an organisational problem. The local communities in this area have been working for seven, eight years to resolve this problem and, of course, they are willing to cooperate to the best of their ability, both in the preparation of the documentation itself and in the implementation and resolution of the problem itself. That way you can't excuse yourself to an organizational problem. And it's no problem that you're only a minister for a year. This problem is not a year old, it's a decade old. Issues should be kept in the context of, I would say, some smart government policies run continuously. That is to say, what was once promised was even a certain amount of money in the budgets of previous years intended to solve this problem and things did not happen on the ground. Well, that's what this is about. To address organizational problems, I think it's illogical and I could say swindling. After all, this regulation of this area did not begin with your coming to this area, but much earlier. You should only be in charge of the government in charge of this area as a district minister, and should continue to do so. But good, you said, in 2003. I hope that you will, because I do not believe that this amendment will be adopted, that you will at least keep this word, but I promise you that I will be following you alongside the MEP Jerovsk, who, as you once told me, has been chasing you for years because I will now help you with him to resolve this matter myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It is amazing that Minister Kopač insists that there is a problem with the location and project documentation. This leads to a complete contradiction and completely different interpretation of what Minister Gantar said five years ago. Minister Gantar then, I guarantee you, said everything is ready, the second year will begin. In this regard, I cannot help but refer to Mr Evil One, who last mentioned him, to demand that Members use Zolaj more than once and say, "I accuse." I'm actually accusing deception and a lot of things, of acting wrong. Look where the money went in the past years, which was intended for this when the promises were made. It is said that money was being spent intransparency. This is a further crime, literally. You have to say it repeatedly, I charge you, on behalf of these people. These projects were already made because they were brought to my office by the retired director of the water management company from Maribor. They were made. It is said that the government is only now looking after some new designers who will draw and appear to draw 20 million money each year and do what is done in other ministries, the Ministry of Education, the economy. That money's going. I call on the Minister for Finance, Mr Rope, to return to the budget the money that goes beyond the call for proposals, as is the case with these ministries, the economy, the education, I do not know where, in the DARS, everywhere. That's enough money. I ask Mr Kopač whether it does not seem to him that this dravinje regulation project would be more justified to be involved in all of Slovenia's aid, such as the financing of the heating of Ljubljana, municipal energy from 0.36 tolar after every kilowatt time. Why not do so, everything is in your ministry, but each Slovenian household will contribute 0.2 to making these projects go forward. And saying that there's no systematic planning. Yeah, well, your client's been holding this department for 10 years. But you think we're total "butters" so you'll think you'll be pointing everything out, I don't know, at Peterlet's government, as was said yesterday. You're responsible, and you're literally accused of not telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask for the peace needed in the Chamber so that the debaters can have a smooth discussion. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	I have to take a call because I have a feeling that this is already slowly moving on to one topic, which is a topic for another item of the agenda. That's why I called. Let's focus on this amendment. I would also like to say that I will support this amendment and ask the Minister how it is with the flood threat of Celje and how much funding is earmarked for this topic. One more time. President, I would warn you, let us limit ourselves only to this area, because I will not listen to these matters twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	The flood security of Celje, of course, we are trying to regulate, as I mentioned earlier, as a priority. However, I can deliver concrete amounts without delay as regards the planning of the project documentation and the planned individual interventions in the coming year, so that I do not actually read again what is already written in the Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the sub-programme Planning, Protection and Water Management. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 32. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, two amendments to the Sub-programme Planning, Protection and Water Management. Under one is the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrej Visiak, and under order number two, is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Of course, I know about the outcome of this amendment, I see that even such a lack of interest, in fact, Mrs. Majnikov's advocate of Haloze yesterday, does not confuse her today even if she did not, I see [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Mr Jerovšek, I'm sorry, you're out of line here. I must also remind you, on behalf of Members who warn me that we are sticking to what is on the agenda, to remind you, and even more so that you do not offend your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	In fact, I was expecting someone to stand up for a place to take some interest in it, and there's no interest in it. There is no social sense in this House, not some sense of the classical interests of this country. That is why I call once again for you to support the amendment, even though I know what the outcome will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It was Tuesday this week, after the meeting, I was in the lobby where government representatives and some members of the National Assembly and the employees of our house complained because there was actually no water in the jar that allowed the filling of glasses. And that's what I'm saying because in our dear country, there are still people who don't have plumbing. And worse yet, the National Assembly has known this issue for years and years. However, I will be more specific, I am talking about the second amendment to the user of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the amendment, which is valued at a minimum of 3.018 thousand Slovenian tolars. It is the construction of a water supply as a primary utility activity or a primary human activity that enables existence. Let me say that this is a project carried out between the local community on which this pipeline is located, in the Radlje ob Drava municipality, and between the Ministry of Environment and Space, put in place as a priority or as a priority. However, as usual, none of these programmes undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whether in the field of education or in the field of environmental protection, are subject to the provision of financial resources. This time or today, like last year at the time of the adoption of the budget, the National Assembly has the opportunity to provide people with, say, a basis for normal living and thus for the development of individual local communities or parts of local communities. Given that the amendment has been taken by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose it, I am convinced that Minister Kopač, as the Minister of the Interior in this area, is seeking to ensure a better, better quality stay in our country especially when it comes to its domain, does not oppose or support the amendment and would ask for it to be defined. However, I would call on all Members and Members of this National Assembly, particularly in this amendment, which is priced or valued as a small monetary cost for this national assembly, or a share of the national budget, and because the money takes from the field of foreign policy and international assistance, in particular coordination in the process of activities where expenditure, which, on the other hand, represents an income in the field of environmental protection, is not a percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, if you'll excuse me. Minister Mag. Digger, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	The amendment, referred to by MEP Peca, is an amendment that wants to redirect 3 million, not 3,000, as he said, 3 million tolars of resources into the reconstruction of the water supply in Radlja near Drava. The government is not opposed, but I must say that the amendment is somewhat awkward and I just hope that it will not be difficult to implement it - if it is accepted - because the environmental agency is actually the body responsible for the renovation or maintenance of the pipelines, not the plumbing. As far as pipelines are concerned, or water pipeline repairs, these are the means of municipal infrastructure - co-financing municipal infrastructure at the Ministry of the Environment and Space and means for regional development at the Ministry of Economy. That's where it should be. I hope that implementation will be possible in the course of the year if the amendment is adopted. As I said, the government doesn't oppose him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 17 to 33. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are now moving on to a decision on the specific work as a whole. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. I'm opening a general debate. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the government is present here, however, in its form, but I would still like to hear the government's opinion when it comes to the development programmes in which the government plans to spend, I don't know, in 2004, 2005. So, of course, this is planning at a time when there may be another political situation in this country. Of course, it's nothing wrong, but there's something else I'd like to point out here. I would like to point out that these plans are not in line with the adopted development programmes in individual areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Here we have talked extensively about the Slovenian national highway construction programme, which is an extremely pressing problem, then there is a national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure, and of course here I ask representatives of the government, especially the Ministry of Finance: is it logical that the budget or that these national programmes will adapt to the budget, or would it not be logical for the budget to adapt to the national programmes? Here, of course, I think it is worth noting, and I am sure that, under the conditions of such work and such planning, these national programmes are becoming unnecessary, only a list of good wishes, otherwise they have no benefit for the citizens and citizens of this country. So, I really want you to answer that; I expect the government to respond to what it intends to do in accordance with these programmes, including those for which it has already promised in Parliament that it will change them or propose them to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would just like to highlight the thought and comment I have already made on the Committee on Finance. See, in principle, I support the development programme plan, but real and based, it is said, on the basis of a ground-based plan, which means that it can serve both the country and the local communities to plan investments for the following years; it is usually a multi-annual investment and it is right that planning is possible. However, I stress that this plan of development programmes is nothing more than a list of wishes and, of course, it also comes, in my opinion, in many cases, to the irrational spending of money, because we start at many ends, investments take a series and a series of years, and they sometimes drag on for a substantial long time, instead of starting some amount of investment and putting an end to the real dynamics of these investments. This is how we begin and likely, of course, to electorate and electorate, promise and bury at all possible ends, and because of the elaborate dynamics of construction, there is also encouragement and to these irrational matters. On the Committee on Finance, I asked them to provide me with a list of all the investments made in this programme and the dynamics in which these investments are carried out and when they will be completed. Unfortunately, I didn't get it on the bench, not until today, and it bothers me. It bothers me in particular because I think it is possible not only to save state money but also to plan a little objectively, both at national and local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this before I give my word to the Minister of Finance? [[No, no, ……]] Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Dear Members, Members. The plan of development programmes is a great quality acquisition of budget adoption in Slovenia. In fact, the view of the development programme plan itself is much more relevant than the budgets have so far said. It says, so, if you want, about what you have been talking about to the electorate, in particular, it tells individual local communities, concrete, potential users very specifically what they can expect from the investment part of the budget on a specific level. And this is not a list of wishes, but in the part where it is bound to the 2002 budget and 2003 budget, it is a very concrete specification of everything that is adopted in the budget and therefore a fundamental starting point for everyone's planning at all levels. And, of course, in this context, the issue of national programmes is very topical. In fact, the question is how real national programmes are when they are being implemented and whether they are adopted in a way that is within the context and within the real public financial frameworks. The answer, after looking at the various national programmes, is very clear. They are not fully aligned with real public finances. And we all know that if we tried to do everything and so and in time, as is supposed, the whole gross domestic product would not be enough. In fact, the plans for the development programmes are to specify national programmes in real terms. In what is actually possible and is actually possible to finance. As for 2004 and 2005, these are projections which, of course, can change in that part. On the one hand, these are projections from the investments started in 2002 and 2003, in fact, 2001 and are also exogenous, and this shows exactly the cost of individual projects starting and starting during this period; on the other hand, there are also projections and plans of individual ministries per segment. This means, of course, that when budgets are adopted annually, these projections are those that can then be subject to corrections. Undoubtedly, however, I think this is a big step forward - a plan for development programmes. And if we compare this development programme plan with that adopted at the 2001 budget, I think it's a lot, or much better.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Yes, I agree with the Minister, but there is only one case that I will present to him. The clear priority of this government is - that's what I warned him about yesterday - or the government said its priority was the pediatric clinic and the oncology institute. He himself said in paragraphs 3.7 that he would go to Luxembourg alone in mid-September and hire an appropriate loan. So now, as we look at this part of the planned investments in previous years, we can see that most of the money needed to do so is planned in 2004 or 2005. So we all know that there will be elections then, that the political cards will be mixed and that there will be a government that can be priorities - I don't know, I don't think, but I warn you - it will change and then it will say again, like this government: our clear priority is a pediatric clinic. But these numbers that we have in front of us, that doesn't work, that doesn't confirm this number. It is even worse for some of the things that the government is doing, for example, that it is not expected to start until 2005. So he doesn't intend to start in his term either, but he's setting, I'd say, a milestone for a distant future. Personally, if you think it's good and it's okay, I don't think it is, and it would seem more like imaginary concepts, some imaginary expectations that are going to come true or not. From promises, however, we know that life is difficult and difficult to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	I must say that I already partly replied yesterday about the pediatric clinic in the part concerning this year and the provision of additional funds, 500 million and a total of 800 million. In short, to the extent that it was actually necessary for everything that could be done for a pediatric clinic. So these are the estimates of the Ministry of Health, how much of what can be invested and carried out realistically in the following year and in 2003. The sum foreseen here is three billion in these two years. I think that this is a relatively large sum that will suffice for construction to start with great dynamics and that relatively large amounts are also being realized. Also, if you look at the Ministry of Health, you can look at the huge difference between 2001 and 2002 and 2003 in the volume of investments. In 2001, this volume was 4.5 billion, and this year we were able to provide 9.2 billion with some additional measures, which were widely discussed in the National Assembly. So, of course, it is not an illusion, nor an empty plan, but it is a very real project, which, of course, I hope, we will be able to fully implement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Just a moment, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you another word. To the supreme, to the secretary of state, to explain. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would only like to provide that additional explanation that perhaps just new developments in health care are not the right reference for such debates. In fact, at the end of construction, investment is most expensive because equipment is then purchased, even up to 30 percent of the value is in the last year of construction for the purchase of equipment. So this dynamic, as planned here in our plans, is perfectly correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The interesting thing about these investments is that the majority amount is the maximum amount always the last year. According to the logic of funding and the logic of the determination to go forward, as far as the future is clear, it should be quite the opposite that most of the investment amounts should be given in the first years, that is perfectly logical, without appearing in recent years. This way of planning in full, all of these projects, has emerged recently even in legislation. Family benefits - since we had the opportunity to see - the exercise of rights in 2003, 2004 and 2005. This method also began to be enforced in marriage. But when the need to enforce the law comes, it's a change. And it is now pointed out, even in the area of pension legislation, that the government has already adopted some solutions regarding disability protection, so that this forecast will not be implemented in 2003. This is, again, the improbability, this is the promise of castles in the clouds, this is mixing with people, this is an unserious doing. And we need to point out that people are aware of how to do it, how to do it unprofessionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In these plans of development programmes, I could, in other words, stop with any comment, but perhaps I will mention only one segment or I would like an explanation. In fact, in the area of regional policy development programmes or direct regional incentives now, given the figures I am looking at from 2002 to 2005, it seems very clear to me that this institution will not be able to get back on its feet soon. In accordance with the law we have adopted, this institution should actually operate in the full phase. I think that at some of the government's presentations at regional levels, at some of the meetings where the government's representatives represented these development programmes for the future, and from their optimistic words, incentives and so on, when, in my opinion, more than planting flowers and deceiving representatives involved in these matters, I see simply that this policy will not be implemented in this budget. In fact, those real incentives are extremely few. If I just look at one item, like the implementation part of the regional development programmes, then at these meetings, lectures or whatever they are called, a lot of optimistic words have been said about how these implementation parts of the development programmes will be implemented in the coming years. I see that there is extremely little money for this and then I wonder whether it makes sense to spend so much billions of money on the organization's own set-up, on wages and so on, maybe even on billions of sums of costs for the implementation of regional development programmes, that is the fact that it will be huge costs - and then none of those that will naturally take part in these calls will know if they can come in. Or if we just look at 2002 where the implementation parts of the regional development programmes are supposed to be very strong, only 982 million tolars. What are you going to do with this money, please, for even Slovenia? Implementing parts of regional development programmes - 982 million for the whole of Slovenia for 2002! Yeah, what are you gonna do about it? Why are you "fucking" the people after Slovenia? That's absurd, what's going on. This is a fraud of all sorts, which can happen. Then you show there, 240 or how many billion tolars were regional development. If you think what it was about was hardware and I don't know what else it was and building highways and all those projects you put in there. This is not regional development! You cannot thus guarantee the development of the remaining areas. We know we've made some peddlers, some statistics, and so on, where you can see which areas are the most backward. And those areas should be encouraged to rise to some Slovenian average. First of all, this. And then also make it possible for all others to implement certain projects. And that way, everyone's gonna throw it in the same basket. Only if I look at one example, let's say for this year - since I mentioned it, now Mr Copač is gone, but it doesn't matter. 170 million tolls for water supply in Slovenia is an invitation to tender. Yeah, that's how much my local Blanca community needs, where there are 1,300 people who don't have drinking water! And you're giving $35 million for the plane, and we don't have drinking water so kids can drink drinking water. Please! It's pure deception. I cannot agree with such a development programme, such as here, especially for local or regional infrastructure or for regional development programmes. And I don't agree. I would like to ask for an explanation of what this means in the coming years, such a low level of funding for some regional programmes for regional development. If you can answer that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Stormfly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Thank you so much for asking. So, by tendering a little less than 1 billion Slovenian tolars in the coming year, we will co-finance the preparation of projects. Above all, we will focus these funds on this and in those regions that are defined as areas A - it is said, only in those that are most lagging behind in development - we will start to co-finance some of the development priorities that will be defined in the regional development programmes as the most priority for the region. We had just yesterday in Koroška a presentation of the first or evaluation of the first regional development programme, which was submitted and also the financial structure was the subject of discussion. It is clear from the content of this programme that the Koroška programme will be financed by different ministries, not only by the Ministry of the Economy and, of course, not by the Ministry of the Economy, but only by funds which are on the item of direct regional development incentives. So the answer is that regional development programmes start with resources from very different ministries. We believe that this is a serious project, we believe that it can be implemented with the money that is real in Slovenia, which is real, but of course it will be necessary to focus efforts, join forces and take an organised approach to the implementation of these plans that are emerging in the regions today. We also believe that this structure serves to draw on European funds, that we have started to prepare it not only because of - we have certainly not prepared it only because of the few billion that are on the basis of the Direct Regional Incentive; we have prepared it to guide the development part of the state budget into projects that go into the regions and we have prepared it further to channel European funds, which we are counting on to start coming to a greater extent after entering the European Union than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision-making plan for the development programmes. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 12. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have therefore concluded the decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether the state budget for revenue and expenditure is harmonised? Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Therefore, due to the amendments voted in the specific part of the budget, a harmonisation amendment is needed for the general part of the budget, which you originally voted on. So I ask for so much rest that the Government of this harmonisation amendment, if you agree, prepare and accept or continue with 2003 and then return to the harmonisation amendment if you agree to such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it notes that the state budget is not harmonised and we therefore interrupt the consideration of the supplementary draft budget for the financial year 2002 until the preparation of the harmonisation amendment. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence of the supplementary draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. The updated draft budget was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government representative want to explain the amended proposal for an act? Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! An important part of everything as far as 2003 and the general frameworks are concerned has already been presented at the time of the presentation of the updated draft budget for 2003. However, it must be said that the updated 2003 proposal is based on new estimates of economic developments, both for 2001 and 2002, and on the resulting new estimates of public financial revenues for 2003. The assessment by the international institutions and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis shows that the recovery of economic growth in the United States and, consequently, in the European Union, which was expected by the end of 2001 will be expected about six months or half a year later, most likely in the second half of 2002. This means that we can assess if these forecasts come true, that in 2003 the economic year, which will be a better, economic year, will in fact mark the return to economic growth of our most important external trading partners. These forecasts have also been taken into account in the estimates of public financial revenues and expenditure opportunities for 2003. The updated draft budget for 2003 thus contains changes on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. The new 2003 revenue estimate is 1406,7 billion tolars, which is 13.3 billion less than originally foreseen. The share of budgetary revenue compared to gross domestic product will thus be 25.6%. The main reason for this reduction in estimated revenue is the lower level of economic growth and the most important macroeconomic aggregates in the previous two years. The volume of budgetary expenditure in 2003 is reduced by SIT 13.3 billion in terms of originally projected expenditure, mainly due to a lower level of expenditure. We have therefore adjusted the expenditure to revenue, in particular by reducing, by measures which are already in force in 2002, salaries, material costs and the lower movement of certain transfers will, of course, reduce these transfers, cumulatively, even in 2003. The total consolidated government revenue will be reduced by about 18 billion Slovenian tolars in 2003, while the volume of consolidated public financial expenditure will decrease by 16 billion tolars in 2003. In 2003, the total public deficit will increase by 2 billion Slovenian Tolars due to the deficit in the health treasury. However, the overall government deficit in 2003 will still be 0.78% of gross domestic product, one of the lowest public financial deficits in recent years and will lead to an accelerated establishment of public financial balance in Slovenia. In preparing the 2003 supplementary draft budget, we have increased the projected expenditure, in particular in the field of investment, by 2.5 billion, and the expenditure devoted to science and security, in spite of the reduced resources and therefore additional restrictions on revenues through additional restructuring. Dear Members and Members! The 2003 budget is the first budget to be adopted in Slovenia more than a year before its implementation starts; it is the first budget resulting from the adoption of budgets for two years. Notwithstanding the relatively uncertain international conditions of management, we can see that its structure, both economic and programme, clearly demonstrates the relevance and justification of the longer-term planning of budgetary expenditure and revenue. With this budget, we firmly stop and turn downwards the trend of the government deficit, in fact limit the intransparency of the adoption of new public financial commitments in the coming period and significantly increase the variable developmental part of the budget. In fact, the adoption of this budget alone represents an important contribution to greater public financial and economic stability and transparency in Slovenia. I therefore propose, of course, that you support this updated draft budget for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the floor to present their views on the updated proposal for the 2003 State budget. He was the first to apply and will present the opinion of the Socialist Party of Mags. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the idea and the approach of multi-annual budgetary planning, as we have pointed out in the adoption of the 2001 budget this spring. According to our assessment - and here we fully agree with the Minister of Finance - this contributes to more planned and transparent work and also to the whole area of public finances in Slovenia. At the same time, it is worth noting that the limits to which this multi-annual budgeting is based should be set and that we do not agree here to go to the 2003 budget in such a detailed, detailed cut, for this is barren work and meaningless work. We believe that in this multi-annual budget planning, the macro-economic framework, assumptions and targets for the next period should be laid down and that Slovenian public finance priorities, as well as development priorities, should be clearly defined. We are therefore quite serious in the Social Democratic Party - and here we note Slovenia's first priority, this is entry into the European Community, and consequently the fulfilment of the Maastricht objectives - and here we stress the biggest problem we see in this budget for 2003 and also in the priorities presented by the Minister of Finance, this is the management of inflation. The Minister of Finance or the Government of the 2002 and 2003 supplementary draft budget says that inflation will go on as follows: 8.5% in 2001, 6.4% in 2002 and 5.1% in 2003. We know that in order to meet the Maastricht objectives, we need to get inflation in 2003 or before we enter the European Community - this is, hopefully, from 2004 to 4% or between 3.8 and 4%. This is not what the government wants to achieve today, so I seriously wonder whether it remains a priority for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to enter the European Community, because I strongly doubt that such an economic policy will be possible to achieve this. The early entry into the EU requires the coordinated functioning of macroeconomic policy and the achievement of the Maastricht objectives. We can read that the Bank of Slovenia wants to implement this policy of approaching or achieving the Maastricht objectives and therefore predicts or wants to bring inflation to 5.2 to 5.3% in 2002 and to 4% at the end of 2003 or before entering the European Community. These forecasts, and this policy deviates from government policy, so in the Social Democratic Party, we ask ourselves whether the policy makers in the area of macroeconomic and monetary policy are acting incoherently and acting through each other, which means that our objective and also our common priority, our entry into the European Community, are being distanced. I would also draw attention to the Government's unfounded forecasts of gross domestic product growth, for which it predicts rather optimistic growth. I would say that in today's press you can read the forecasts of Banka Slovenije analysts based on the latest estimates of both global and European recession and say that we will have a gross domestic product growth of less than 3% in 2002, with the government predicting, of course, significantly higher economic growth; they also predict significantly lower economic growth for 2003 than the government forecast. Let me just tell you what that means in tolars. Banka Slovenije analysts are forecasting 0.7% lower economic growth for 2006, which means about 35 billion Slovenian tolars. For 2003, Banka Slovenije analysts forecast a 0.6% reduction in gross social product growth, which means 30 billion Slovenian tolars lower inflows in 2003. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance whether it makes sense to insist on such baseless assumptions and, in fact, to implement an optimistic policy, or even a policy that blinds us or a policy that somehow distances us from the objectives and priorities set. In addition, some other statistics, or other macroeconomic assumptions, which the government is forecasting for a further period, especially here, would also be relevant to investment growth, which is now in decline, and we are forecasting for 2003 even 6.5% growth. We therefore reiterate that this debate on the 2003 budget, in particular in such a detailed and somehow detailed cut as we have before us, does not come at this time; at this time, in the autumn of 2001 or in the winter of 2001, the debate on the 2003 macroeconomic frameworks and the priorities of Slovenian development for 2003 and, of course, later on the 2003 budget in the framework agreed. I would like to point out that the government will not achieve anti-cyclical economic policies with investments in these negative economic growth forecasts, only through public sector investments or, of course, increased public spending. We believe that in Slovenia, in particular, the structure of public spending, especially at the expense of wages and of course, I reiterate that in the Social Democratic Party we believe that this countercyclical economic policy can be achieved by providing a more favourable climate for investment and investment in the economy. This, of course, cannot be achieved by means of so-called subsidies, as the Minister of Finance can counter these opposition wishes. This can be achieved through a favourable tax policy, a series of other state aid measures and not just by throwing money into non-performing economic programmes. I would stress that the economy should be rewarded for its achievements, not just on the average. I wonder very much why we have no ideas on the award of concessions on the table, both for the implementation of major investment projects in public infrastructure, for example in motorways. Why did all the other incentives for the arrival of foreign capital in Slovenia, and thus, of course, to increase the economic activity of domestic producers as well? In short, we estimate that it is very early to talk about the 2003 budget in the form it is in front of us. We can talk about these essential elements, macroeconomic assumptions, on the basis of which it must, of course, move forward and lay down further detailed budgeting. I would stop at the very important goal of the government, which wants to provide a knowledge-based society in Slovenia, with which we fully agree on the socialdemocrats, but the figures in the budget show otherwise. The figures in the budget show that, despite this imperative and this long-term objective of the Slovenian government in the coming years, education is intended for a lower budget share in relation to gross domestic product. I would mention a very problematic government policy in the field of agriculture. For we estimate that the agricultural sector will probably be easier to implement on the basis of, of course, adopted laws and paper, and that we will make it significantly harder to adapt Slovenian agriculture to new challenges, which will, of course, be exposed to Slovenia's entry into the European Community. That is why I am afraid that with this - almost planned - the work of the lion or the poor journey to Slovenian farmers when entering the European Community and, of course, also some climate that will discourage the Slovenian countryside from this priority, Slovenian priorities. Therefore, on this site and on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I wonder whether Slovenia's Slovenian Government's priority remains to enter the European Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Respectable present. The reality of the 2003 budget is something like the utopia of our presence. I would basically invite you to invite members of the National Assembly to ensure their participation under such an important act as the 2003 budget. There's not even 40 of us in this room right now. On the other hand, I would, or from a second point of view, call on or appeal to the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure at least ministers or the presence of ministers during the 2003 budget debate. There is no minister sitting in or at this time in his parliamentary benches. I think that the debate on the budget at this time - I would ask Members, if they are not already, to at least listen to those present. I was talking about ministers sitting in their posts when they speak on the budget. Madam President, I really do not see the point, on the one hand, to debate the budget with an unqualified majority of Members, with the ignorance of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I ask you, if you order a break at this point, at least to the extent that the National Assembly and this Government of the Republic of Slovenia will demonstrate responsibility for the act we are taking at this time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Mr. Pece, have you completed your presentation of your delegation's position?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u78	I only asked you to ensure the participation of those who will need to be in their places of employment at this time, thereby showing the attitude towards the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Mr. Pece, I'm clearly aware of the rules of business. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when deciding on the presence, now, those interested, we listen to you in one way or another, so I ask you kindly to present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group within a period of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u80	I cannot say that I thank you for your understanding, as I cannot say that I agree with your way of thinking when you so demean this important act. That is why I, too, will not be long and I would just like to say that the 2003 budget or the adoption of two budgets should rest on the stability of the basic economic indicators in our country. As the Minister of Finance basically said, for the first time in our country, it is 365 days before we begin to adopt an act. Therefore, it would be so much more reasonable to adopt this act at a time when the state of Slovenia or its economic indicators are at all stable. I don't believe in the reality of the 2003 budget. I am even more confident that we will meet up with the 2002 budget rebalancing because it speaks like government representatives talking about the reality of economic growth in our country. Gentlemen, where do you live? We have all found together, although the Minister of Finance has identified some new economic science, that the increase in taxes does not have a negative impact on the population or taxpayers, whether as natural or legal persons, I must say that I agree with this; even I say that this is absurd, such thinking. I hope that the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have such a mentality. With the adoption of the 2002 budget, we will all find, raise tax rates, introduce some new taxes. You expect increased economic growth on which the 2003 budget will be based. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, budget promoters and all those who support this draft budget! Once again, let me tell you that we are legislating inflation at this moment, which is a logical consequence. But this country is not able to behave macroeconomically, and at this time another as a result of the inactivity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot do so as to leave this Chamber alone, the meeting room of the state budget. I think it is a shame, on the one hand, that all of our activities, if not even the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is willing to listen to the wishes of the members of the groups, how to deal with them or how to approach better conditions for regulating macroeconomic relations in this country. Finally, we do not intend to support such a budget in any way in the Slovenian National Party and it seems to us - once again - that it is shameful to participate even if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shows this degree of ignorance. And it shows the maximum degree of ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Alojz Sok will present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. We also think it is a shame that the Liberal Democracy Group did not adopt Mr Pahor's proposal at the beginning of the budget debate to discuss both budgets together. For what we are about to do, and this participation in the hall, of course, shows that all together is one great nonsense. As we do in the people's jargon, they say, "Twice speaking in the mill, and then they say where three times." We really don't want to repeat all this debate because it's really illogical. We have said a lot, of course without success, all the opposition's arguments have been rejected, as will these others, which would be expounded. To a budget written as it is, in detail, we call it a utopian illusion, of course, we do not believe it. In this country, in these circumstances, it is impossible for us to begin to plan in such a precise manner, and in particular not when many national strategic concepts are being broken down. Of course, in the end it will be: the operation will succeed, the patient will crucify, and probably eventually, on the spot. This concludes the presentation of the opinions of our Group of Members, which was not actually a presentation, but a reminder of the senseless work being done in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik will speak on behalf of the SLS SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Our Group of Members will support the 2003 budget. Just because I'm alone in the Chamber doesn't mean there won't be any votes when we vote today on the draft budget for 2003. We also reiterate our view that the government's decision to try to draw up a multi-annual budget and that it was a good one this time. At the same time, we can again see that time - but not because of the government's guilt - was not the most favourable in terms of international relations. In my performance, I will touch on one issue alone, and these are forecasts of economic growth, because this is a key postulate, on which the main revenue sides of the budget can then also be planned; but you can only spend what you have, which is running out, but you owe yourself, that is old wisdom. The draft budgets for 2002 and 2003 are based on forecasts by the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Research. While forecasting future economic growth is always a sensitive issue, especially in times when international circumstances are unpredictable, it is even more delicate. The coming two years, especially in 2003, is also a big puzzle in the geopolitical and also in the international financial sense. Finally, even international financial organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund, are correcting their forecasts, which also changed the forecast. In the autumn report we just received, OMAR, the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, announced a 4.5% growth in gross national product for 2003. This is also a key item on which the government was founded when it predicted budgetary resources for 2003. Skeptics to these predictions certainly have weight. Today we have heard that another institution in Slovenia came forward yesterday, which has a great reputation, and this is Banka Slovenije. The Bank of Slovenia is already much more conservative in its structure, and above all it is politically independent, and this is its main power. The Bank of Slovenia, however, said that there would be 2.9% real growth next year and only 3.9% growth in 2003. Some say that caution would also apply to the Bank of Slovenia's forecast. It is true, however, that the Bank of Slovenia's forecast is very close to what the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has also announced. The Government's draft budget for 2003 can therefore be found to have arisen under difficult conditions of accurate economic growth assessments. Nevertheless, it is necessary to complete the procedure, but we are ready to get a document on the table in the second half of next year, which will be called the budget rebalancing, or perhaps otherwise, for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Not to close too fast again. Is there any other group that would like to present an opinion? Because no, I invite the Minister, who wanted to be defined for the opinion of the parliamentary groups, to take the floor. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I think that some of the things that have been said here require a comment. Of course, I do not deny that the situation is not complicated, that the economic situation is not complicated and that international economic circumstances are not unfavourable. Of course it is. The situation is difficult, the situation is complex, and of course this does not mean that we must all leave pessimism together, as the opposition wants to convince us. On the contrary! I've told you many times. This is precisely why there are more reasons for us to act actively, to perform countercyclically, to support the economy and, of course, to create moderate optimism in Slovenia. There is no reason for us in Slovenia to wait for what will happen in the international environment, and on this basis we are leading a policy. Now is the time to react and with these two budgets we are doing just that. In real frameworks, in the real possibilities we have, we try to do the best we can. We have checked everything we propose together with Slovenian macro-economicists, with a professional. And for all these measures, we have received more or less support. No excuse would the government have for saying that everything is utopian right now because it's insecure. All that's planned is an illusion. I think it's quite the opposite: that we have to plan, that we have to anticipate, and that, of course, we have to monitor then the realization of what is going to happen. Is inflation, or is one of the government's objectives, an anti-inflation policy? Of course it is. And this actually shows up every day and this is also shown in the budget. This is reflected in the wage policy, which is reflected in the policy towards social transfers and the system itself for coordinating the various aggregates. However, it is quite clear that the government is in a different position than the Bank of Slovenia. It is logical that Banka Slovenije plans to plan the most pessimistic variant of development, and it is logical that it adapts its monetary policy if it wants to work with its monetary policy anti-inflationary. We have, of course, seen the forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia regarding economic growth. These forecasts are, in fact, very unusual because they are at a time when the budget has not yet been adopted and are made on the assumption that there are no budgetary frameworks. That is why we have taken a close look at Banka Slovenije's assessments. If you look at the segment, such as national consumption, you expect 2.9% real growth. This, of course, will not happen if this budget is adopted - I am talking about 2002 - real growth will be as predicted. In the report of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis - 3.7. And this will contribute to economic growth! And, of course, this will also contribute to investment in fixed assets. According to the Bank of Slovenia report, investments are expected to increase by 3.5 per cent. We plan to grow by 4.6, but we can plan this because of this budget that we are adopting and because of the government's countercyclical action. If the government hadn't done anything, what Banka Slovenije is planning would have actually happened. They would have lower investment growth, lower government consumption growth, lower economic growth, lower wages and lower standards. And that is the essence of the difference in the predictions that we have made, of course. As far as 2003 is concerned, the Bank of Slovenia's forecast is actually favourable as regards public financial resources. If you look at export and import growth forecasts, then you will see that Banka Slovenije is planning a 5% export growth and UMAR, a 6.3% macroeconomic analysis office, and we are planning 6.4, Banka Slovenije and 6.2. If you look at the ratio, the net ratio, it is in favour of imports, because it is of course important that the net inflows from the value added tax benefit. In fact, it means, to a certain extent, a greater inflow from tax revenues. These larger tides, we deliberately did this simulation to you, because of course we expected this question of yours, amounting to 1.3 billion more than we estimated if we assessed all tax sources. If we take the Bank of Slovenia's announcement, in fact, the public financial picture for 2003, if we follow it separately, is more favourable than we have estimated, but of course these differences are marginal and do not deviate significantly; as I said, this is the difference I have been talking about. The Social Democratic Party surprises us all the time with its recipes for better economic growth - it is against investment in infrastructure, it is against anti-cyclical policy and it is talking about the need to create a climate. What kind of climate? In what area? Of course, there's no talking about it. First of all, the talk was that the Social Democratic Party would encourage greater competitiveness or export competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In what way - at first we thought that with the subsidies, today we were exposed to information to do so in order to introduce tax reliefs. In what area? How? Nobody talked about it. At this point in Slovenia we have a relatively competitive tax environment [[Yesterday, I was very clear on this.]] we have one of the lowest profit taxes in Europe, 25%, we have an effective tax rate of 9%, we have a value added tax that is more than competitive with all other European countries, we have a excise duty that is below average in relation to the European Union and in relation to all neighbouring countries. We have a value added tax, where we have already taken advantage of all those lower rates that can be exploited. I fully agree with the part where the talk is that we should do more in Slovenia in the area of concessions, in the area of combining private, private and public capital. And this is certainly one of the very serious tasks that is reflected mainly through the so-called development programme, which we would like to build in Slovenia also on the basis of private capital or the combination of one and the other. I must say that I have repeatedly advocated some such projects in the field of transport, and I think that the government has begun a very serious activity with regard to the opening of some projects in the field of infrastructure investment. In short, there is no reason at this time to spread pessimism in Slovenia. It is very realistic that we will have better economic growth than in other European countries, that we will have renewed investment, that we will have moderate economic growth, and, of course, if the situation deteriorates - and, as I said, the situation is not simple - the government will react. Some Members of Parliament have been in Sweden this year and you have seen, even the instrument of the budget rebalancing is nothing like that, but it is a normal instrument. If the international economic environment happens to have a negative impact on Slovenian economic growth, the government will, of course, react, it will come with its projections, with its assessments and also an explanation of the arguments. In short, just as some here want to say - a situation that is difficult gives us additionally very important reasons for planning more in the long term to balance the budget, to increase the variable part of the budget and, in fact, to increase the possibility of reacting to any problems that might arise in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard representatives of the parliamentary groups in the presentation part of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are now moving on to a debate on individual parts of the complementary draft state budget. The same as in 2002 is considered as an integral part of the overall part, a specific part and a development programme plan. So first, we are moving on to the general part of the proposed supplementary budget. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate of the debaters is limited to 5 minutes. The first thing they said was "magic." A visor, then a mag. It's a trifle. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much. My debate on the 2003 budget has already been drawn up in the context of the opinion and presentation of the parliamentary group. I now take the floor in particular in response to these Minister's remarks. I'd like to say the following. It is almost rare in economic policy to detect an instrument for raising taxes in the event of a decline in economic growth. We are simply due to internal and external factors in the situation where economic growth is on foot in Slovenia. Here are the forecasts of the government and the Bank of Slovenia. That is why I have warned, and in the Social Democratic Party, we caution that it does not resort to tax evasion in such segments. However, as far as the economy is concerned, I tell you that in such a situation it is necessary to create even more favourable impacts on investment. I cannot agree with this argument that the climate for investment and investment in Slovenia is extremely, or above average, and also, of course, to promote the development of the economic sector, in particular that creates the highest added value. I cannot agree with this and I want to say that countercyclical action can also be ensured through this measure. This was presented in the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. In the Social Democratic Party, we have always supported the rebalancing when such changes occur in the implementation of the budget, which, of course, this rebalancing is also planned, and we have opposed the powers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to interfere with the already adopted budget with the redistribution and with many other powers it has under the law on the implementation of the budget. We have always said that those who accept the budget should also, as a rule, adopt changes in the budget. That is why I am surprised to hear the Minister's remarks that we, or that we, once have to agree on the possibility of a rebalancing. We keep pointing that out. And I'm surprised the minister is making this obvious, but at the same time he didn't present a balance for this year, which would be the only right thing to do. I warn you, the opposition is not spreading and does not want to spread pessimism. It's also a purely mere instigation of the Minister of Finance. We just want to emphasise that the 2003 budget is based on unfounded assumptions. Not to spread pessimism. We would like to point out that serious analysts already have a huge difference in economic growth forecasts for the coming period. Today everyone can read the forecasts of Banka Slovenije analysts in the media. Government forecasts are older and do not reflect all the factors reflected by Banka Slovenije analysts. Their predictions are substantially, substantially lower than what the Minister here represents. Once again, the forecasts for 2003 range from 0.6 to 0.7 per cent of gross social product growth, representing around 30 billion Slovenian tolars. I think it's serious. And that's not pessimism. This is merely an indication to the government that it predicts spending on baseless revenues. And that is what we fear, fear and share, I hope, concern with the Ministry of Finance for the implementation of the budget and the implementation of all these items, which, of course, we also accept here. That's why it's not pessimism. We want to be optimistic, but optimistic within the framework of available, not through this. And the optimists were also in the ark of Yugoslavia when the matter finally collapsed. They were always optimistic back then. Once again, once again, I stress that economic growth and countercyclical economic policies cannot be achieved simply by the measures proposed by the Government. Therefore, we believe that it is unjustified to interfere with higher taxes and, of course, other higher taxes that discourage consumption, including another sector, in particular private consumption and consumption of the economy or investment in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u89	I give the word "magic." A little thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Much has now been said in response to the opposition's statements that we are opposed to the optimism of the government. I fully agree, and in the New Slovenia Group, we also agree that things must be set up in an optimistic manner. However, for this optimism it is necessary to have certain key foundations and, of course, planned instruments so that this optimism can in practice bear fruit. And this is what we have repeatedly stressed that is missing in this budget. Growth in budget expenditure, real growth will be around 3% if I'm not mistaken. If this scale of growth were to go primarily to the expense of investments, i.e. those that increase added value and the size of the economic and service sectors in the country, this would mean a certain momentum and these matters could be more optimistic and more realistic. In fact, however, national consumption or consumption varies. Here is the question of what kind of consumption the government has chosen. For 2003 and then, of course, we still have nice graphs of how the bright future for Slovenia will come regarding debt, growth, deficit. It is the same: there are no legitimate reasons for this joy. It is true that the government has decided to sell state assets over the next two years, 2002 and 2003, some over 200 billion, I do not know, 240 or 230 billion for each year, with which it is likely that these claims and debts will recover slightly because we know how the principals are to increase these liabilities because these debts need to be made more acceptable from a financial point of view. But in the time of fat cows, as they say, debt, deficit increased. Now that we have a crisis, now the bright future is coming. It is difficult, at least I think it would be quite optimistic if we stopped these negative trends so that these indicators would remain at the same height at the time of the crisis. That's why we need a major shift. In particular, a fundamental shift is needed because we are dealing with the same government, and logically, people cannot realistically expect a major shift. Social product growth below 4% for transition countries is not even high. If we ever want to reach this train, on which European countries are actually on, we should actually have real growth over 4%. Therefore, there is a lack of those sound investment projects. Mr Minister claims that we have an extremely competitive tax field, profit, profit taxation, VAT, excise duty. It should be realistic to ask what is not really a 'good' in this country, that investors from the outside are not interested in direct investment or investment in capital portfolios. What the hell is that? Are there only administrative obstacles?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u91	I'm asking the Member of Parliament if he can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Yes, only if you allow me, Mr President, to complete my thought. So there is no government response and I would ask the government to answer that. So much, considering the bell warned me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I will give my priority to Minister Robb because I see Mr. Likenik waving at me so that I can do this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I think it's very good that this is a discussion, that we might clear up some things so that they don't stay open. Yes, it is very interesting that Mr Drobnič's thesis is that it is not the investor's interest. It's a very big interest. In recent times you can hear a great deal about the different national interests that speak against foreign investors who would like to invest in Slovenia. For example, banking is such a big deal, even in the field of some other industries, as you know, there is much discussion about this and there have been questions from Members. Also, if you look at the movement of foreign investments and the inflows from this title and in the capital part of our balance sheet, you will see that the Bank of Slovenia has had relatively large problems this year with large foreign exchange flows from this title. So I don't understand where you got this claim that you're not interested. I would say that the interest of foreign investors is that it is often quite a resistance to foreign investment in many environments. So I don't know where you got this. Second, the more interesting thing is, in fact, what Mr Vizjak said. I hope he knows that, when he speaks of theoretical baselines to increase expenditure and countercyclical activity and that if he advocates countercyclical action and advocates countercyclical action under theoretical assumptions in this context, he means that he advocates greater debt and greater deficit in Slovenia. If that's what you were thinking when you were surprised that the value added tax was going up -- in short, that's what the theory is saying -- that if it works countercyclically, it increases the debt, it increases the expenditure and it works, I'd say proactively. That is why we have not decided on additional debt, even to avoid such things as you have talked about below, for the kind of debt that was in Yugoslavia, although you often like to apply the debt to a person who is greater than in Yugoslavia. But forget your debt compared to a gross domestic product that we all know is 25% and is one lower between the transition countries and the European Union, and I do not want to say that debt is not a problem in itself - of course, trends are a problem. It is with 2003, that we are stopping the trend of increasing deficits and reducing deficits, and that is, of course, crucial. I would also say, in the context of joining the European Union, if this is one of those priorities that you are also alerting to, and if one of the assumptions was already, when the value added tax was adopted, that rate would be 20 per cent, then a rational question is asked whether the value added tax would be raised in 2002 or in 2003, when we have clear anti-inflation objectives before joining the European Union. The answer is in the palm of your hand. The profession agrees with that. This is done in 2002 and not in 2003. And if this is done in 2002, then no additional debt is required. And I think that's the most logical action possible. So, of course, it's incorrect to say, the theory says that the tax is not raised at the time. It is not said, however, that this theory says that there is then a need to increase the debt. In short, you also did not say a single word about which taxes and which taxes you would reduce to further attract foreign investment or increase investment in Slovenia. Perhaps it would be good to tell you how you imagine and in what areas this tax reduction is. In short, my assessment is, once again, that even with what you said, I am sorry that you were not there when I actually explained some of the assumptions of the Bank of Slovenia regarding its forecasts that our assessments in this work are correct in the direction of policy. Proper in the part where we operate with these instruments that we propose is countercyclical. As I said, the assessment for 2003 is clear. If we take the assumptions of the Bank of Slovenia, then there are more sources, due to the different relationship between imports and exports. If we take the forecasts of the European Union, which is somewhere in the middle, it is 4 higher than the Bank of Slovenia. Then we get a similar result. In fact, for 2003, there are no large deviations and, in fact, these forecasts are such that they show an even more favourable picture, as the European Union is more or less summarizing the assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Mag. A visor. Excuse me. One moment, please. [[A voice from behind.]] It's Mr. Squirrel before. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Comrade Visjak, after your performance, I applied, and then I gave priority to the minister. I'd like to replicate my colleagues' mags. A visionary and a mag. A little thing. First of all, I could find out for a little joke that it's not good to have garlic with Minister Robb. He also proved that he was a worthy interlocutor in his last performance when he also found in the data of the Bank of Slovenia, which is relatively unfavourable to him, especially in the case of economic growth forecasts, a whole range of elements justifying the government's decision on optimistic holding. This is said to have absorbed those elements in his predictions that go into his concept. But the key is the painful one, which is much more realistic about economic growth. It's about optimism, realism or pessimism. We will all have to admit together that it was a government, and in this case also a finance minister, before the very difficult task of preparing the budget. Inko decided to go for the next two years with the option of responding to the recession with a positive option, so that she would also respond in a way that would increase investment, it was understandable that this would also increase the deficit slightly. I don't think there was another solution here. But the matter is more complicated. If you could say that the government is optimistic - and as a rule the government, when preparing budgets, by its direction give impetus to the economy, as well as to people, spending, and this is their primary task - and if you say that the Bank of Slovenia is realistic, not pessimistic, as the minister says, you have assessed very well, mag. Visjak, that for Slovenian politics is uncomfortable and does not bear if you are pessimistic. And here's the paradox that the bearers of bad conscience are not appreciated, even though they speak the truth. So who's going to tell the real information? Basically, the opposition is talking about these things, and it's right that you talk about it and don't be embarrassed; someone has to tell you how it is, someone has to tell you what real data is. I believe that the budgetary debate is also an opportunity to talk about the most real things - it is optimism, it is realism, but there are also black predictions, and the synthesis of all three elements is one that is supposed to be good for the country. And here it is very important that each government has a strong opposition, as well as the presidents of the opposition parties taking part in the budget and attacking the government - this is the real policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Mag's got a replica. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Once again, I do not want to be a pessimist yet, because I am not a pessimist in life, at least those who know me know this, but I do not want to be a populism. I don't want to take pictures of something that isn't, and by saying, yeah, because people prefer to hear it, of course, and that's why it's more convenient for me, because I paint them here clouds and I don't know what. I just want to say that the data of the two respected institutions in Slovenia, that is, the Bank of Slovenia and the government, differ, and that I think that our public finances need to be based on real and justified foundations. That's all, and that's real, that's not pessimism. If anyone thinks of it as pessimism, then he misunderstands me or wants to misinterpret me because of populism. That's the first thing. I'd read to Minister Robb - and I don't want garlic with him, but I'm talking about the budget here if anyone saw any garlic anywhere, let me see it. Indebted policy - again Minister Rop is prompting the opposition to be in charge. So where did he get that? If he listened to my opening speech on the 2002 budget, I said a fundamental principle that I think should be respected. That's how we base our expenditure and charge our income, not the other way around. And if we work the other way around, there's a deficit. I don't know, and I wouldn't be explaining these things here anymore, because they're just mesmerizing, and please don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Replica or Mr. Minister will be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u100	I'm very sorry you're upset, but I'm just trying to say what you're saying. Nothing else. I want to analyze what you're saying. You claimed to be in favour of countercyclical policy to promote investment growth. You also argue that you are not to raise taxes, that you are not to be additionally indebted, that there are fewer resources and that expenditure needs to be adjusted to resources. Then be realistic. Then tell them that you are against debt raising, that you are against additional sources through taxes and that you are in order to reduce all expenses. If we do this, we'll act pro-cyclical. We will reduce the country's spending, we will reduce investment, we can further reduce wages, we can reduce private consumption and, of course, we have even lower economic growth than it was. And we are going into a worse crisis and we have an even worse situation in 2003. So this is your recommendation - or not? In short, you can't attack just one point in politics, but you have to tell me what you are, if you criticize us, and you're an alternative. From what you just said, that means that. That it is an alternative for you to limit all expenditure, to limit total consumption and to act non-cyclically but pro-cyclically. It's not anti-cyclical. And I just want to prove that we have to decide on one policy. Whether we are working against the flow or we want to support the economy, of course, we are moderately optimistic at this point, by being aware of all the problems and risks that we are facing, or by closing ourselves into a shell, we say, people, we will not increase any taxes, because that is the best thing to do and we are going into crisis. We're not in a crisis right now. So far, we have economic growth. If you can remember, from school years, during the time of the global crisis, in America, that's exactly what happened. It was pro-cyclical. They started to limit all expenses. When the crisis began, they said it was necessary to save. And they were saving. And they had more unemployment. And even lower economic growth. Then, of course, there was a turnaround and they tried to boost economic growth with increased state investment. And that's what two economic theories are talking about. One is Keynesian, one is monetary. And two approaches are possible. And it is quite clear that Banka Slovenije has a conservative approach and has one goal. And I'm absolutely especting it. The objective is inflation, as low as possible inflation and stable currency. And that's right. That's right, I emphasize. Our goal, governments, of course, must also be economic growth, including employment, and if you want, also a standard of living. And that's what this is all about. And I'm just trying to make it clear, here perfectly clear, what you're actually suggesting as a tool for this country. Then tell me in full. Not only are we against taxes, we're against it. Tell me what you're suggesting. That's all I've asked and I don't want to be offensive and I'm spying on your comments in the part where you say that you need to be realistic, that you need to be careful, that you need to turn to the balance and all these things. I think absolutely everything you're saying in this part is perfectly correct. But when we're talking about the whole thing, let's talk about the whole thing. The whole policy. That's all I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I had a replica of Mr. Sponik, and then I didn't get a word. So I don't know if it makes any sense right now, but I would still tell him that this story with the garlic was an unfortunate attempt to share lessons with two Members like the Magi. A viscous and a mag. It's a trifle. So, everything on the part of the opposition has been told what is being proposed, what we are advocating, and it is certainly not true that in the opposition we would be pessimistic, if we wanted to be, I would say, optimal realists, and we are actually reminding you of that. Just one more sentence. When I read the debate on the adoption of the national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways - I know that now I am getting on your nerves, but these things went to my brother when you took this programme in Parliament - many of those who voted for it here today - some of you have assessed it as a utopian illusion. After all these years, it has clearly proved, Mr Podobnik, that those who then warned you were right. Do you know what argument they were advocating was that it was an illusion? They said a kilometer of highway construction in the developed world was once more expensive than the ones you planned and planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Mag's got a replica. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u104	I'm here for the last time with a replica, because now the minister is pulling my tongue to say again everything I said earlier in the 20 minutes, yesterday or the day before, when I was representing the opinion of the parliamentary group. I cannot repeat this as a replica, so I ask the Minister to read the magnetogram of our implementation, where we have made it clear, and I will only take in three sentences that anti-cyclical action is focused primarily on the economic growth downturn - this means that it works in an accelerated way on economic growth. I have stressed that this cannot be done only by investing in public infrastructure and increasing public sector investments, according to our assessment, and therefore there is a need for a combination of other instruments that encourage investment and create a more favourable climate in the economy. It's like that in an eye, for the quick essence of everything. I think that this can be done, I think that raising value added tax is also not a happy measure in this case and it would be necessary to replace tax in other ways, even we know which ways. Last but not least, look at how many billion Slovenian tolars are incurable debt. This is where I'd end up, and I'm not going to stop by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for the replica. I certainly didn't want to be insulting to my colleagues, Drobnik and Visiak. I just wanted to say that, with your performance, you allowed the Minister of Finance to very convincingly justify the government programme and you could shout, we're all Keynesians, because he was very convincing and he got it in this work, he was better, he was more convincing. Let's face it or not. But I was challenged very well by Mr. Sok. He challenged me very well, and now I'm going to tell you what an alternative would be. Very rarely in the National Assembly - I have been here for several years - with budgets we get amendments that downgrade the item and don't redistribute it. It would be time for such items and such amendments to come to the National Assembly, who will write them? If the government can't do it because it's decided on a different circle, a different concept, a different path, for a different model, someone will have to. And here we are at the old dilemma. If you write an amendment like that, you resent someone, you hit someone. There's a segment you're putting on. But this could be an alternative. Sometimes, I remember, the opposition had so much tougher that even some kind of amendment could do it. But he has never been adopted in Parliament, which is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't intend to come forward at all in this debate because I think it's infertile, even if it's a lot of smart things to say. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would not be offended by the fact that we have stopped this debate and these replicas. I say to my colleagues, because my colleagues are smart and wise to keep quiet and listen patiently. We can have a symposium here on economic growth forecasts. Exactly what someone said is that these predictions of the most respected institutes in the world and at home vary and will also continue to vary and change. That the forecasts of the central banks, not just us, are usually more pessimistic, or conservative, as we call them, is normal in the nature of the functioning of these institutions. But that doesn't do us any good. We must now decide, and as soon as possible, on the adoption of the budget and move on to the implementation of the budget. And in the implementation of the budget for the coming year and for 2003 we have a lot of work, responsibilities and even unpleasant things to do, where we can show this knowledge here in the main debates, then implement it in concrete acts, concrete measures, government with us in particular and, of course, in the national assembly, both in the field of legislation and in the field of other acts and other decisions. However, it is certainly true that any forecast will be realized about economic growth, but the truth is that a lot of us depend on what the actual trends in Slovenia will be. Or more pessimistic or more optimistic than our behavior. That is why I conclude, by repeating this appeal, that we stop the general debate and proceed to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u109	Mr. Diaca has signed up for this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I must admit that I strongly agree with the Minister's debate. However, Mr Vizjak is also correct in certain matters, particularly as regards taxes. That's why I'd ask the Minister. At the time of the recession or the approaching recession, what is more common in expressing itself, or in increasing static taxes or in increasing dynamic taxes? Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would like to ask that we do not engage in some theoretical debate. Please, but it's really short because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u112	I'll answer very briefly. We have two types of taxes, indirect and direct taxes. Essentially more important in terms of economic growth, from the point of view of promoting the economy, are direct taxes and we are increasing direct, not direct, but they remain at a relatively low level.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with the Members? Please, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have now gone through a lot of debates and comments, proposals etc., but nothing has happened in the budget, and as I see it, will not happen. This is a sad little characterization of our budget adoption process. I think that we should consider this for future budgets that we will accept. I'm not going to go into the slippery terrain of conjecture, economics, because you can have them as much as you want. I think that there must be some predictions if they are based on the best estimates, etc. However, here we remember what the IMF mission or the International Monetary Fund talked about in the spring about how people will have to be told to tighten their belts and who will tell them and their assumptions were not as optimistic as the Minister's assumptions. However, I only point out that there will certainly be changes in this budget as well and perhaps even big. If you think about it, in the last few months, Germany has changed its view twice of its transitional economic growth. This will probably happen to us soon enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u115	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u116	But most of all, when I was reviewing the development programme plan for the next two years, I couldn't figure out what the criteria for development programmes were. I imagined that the development programmes were something that would develop something that would serve the Slovenian economy, which would make it more specific, which would modernise it in technical terms and marketing terms and so on. However, if you look at page 583, let's say the activity of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. This is under these development programmes and I would like to know what this means, because this is about the modernisation of equipment and the investment maintenance of the President's office. The same is followed by the activities of the Secretary-General of the Government, the purchase of funds and equipment. Is this developmental, and if so, in what sense? I would think that, for example, if any gentlemen from these offices were sent to an international forum to learn practical democracy, he would understand that. But that's probably not because the new chairs certainly didn't help. And so on and so forth. That is why I would like to find out what the criteria for development programmes are. What is it? For example, somewhere on one side you have written what led you, what guide you had. That's, I mean, 88, on page 7. What exactly does that mean? I know we can't go into this thing anymore, but at least a little bit of ideas could give us what development programs are and why things are done in this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with the Members? Please, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't speak much, but perhaps in this introductory work mainly because of the reaction, somehow in my opinion of the Minister's inappropriate reaction to the accusations of the Social Democratic Party, you think that we are some kind of stopping engine in this country, that this country is not going forward, or in that sense he was just talking. In this general part of the budget, I would say only that it is not particularly clear from all these documents, except from some small parts, how deeply they have actually been taken by the Ministry and also by the government and the authorities as such, as they have taken some grave austerity measures. It's not like that. And you can still see that, and it has been said many times, even today and yesterday and all the time, that I don't know how, with some right measures, it doesn't save. I'm pretty sure it would be possible if I just said it in the grave, because you just want to have specific things to save. Actually, we don't have to tell you this, we can only tell you that if you don't know, and we'll come and we'll do it. But no matter what you want, the first thing we have talked about many times and where there is no rationalisation, is that we have a whole range of institutions, institutions, services and organizational forms that are doubling, triple, and I don't know how many times things are being done in some small segments, which could be combined into larger segments and where things would be simplified and then significantly more rational and also more transparent, if I just turn to these regional development programmes again and so on, because they are scattered across all ministries of these projects, I have talked about this in the adoption of this law on more coherent regional development. But no one wants to understand that. All those who were preparing this at the time didn't even know what it was. Even Mr Senjur, as Minister at the time, said himself, for example, that these secretaries of state and the constituents of these programmes do not really know what this is about. And on such grounds, the preparation of some documents, where those who prepare documents do not know how to rationalize things, unite them into some clever sets, organisationally set up an organization that is rational, economical, transparent, that is not in us. It really isn't. And if it is, tell me where we have our review here, just with these state aids. Bring me one Member or anyone who is in this building, regardless of your documents, the distinguished Madam Secretary, who has sent them to us. There's a document, but it's not like that, let's say we'd see it from the ministries, according to where it is, where it is. There's no one here. And to distribute some regional aid, as well as other assistance and other projects, to implement on such low items as are divided here in this budget and not integrated into some parts, that is, by my assessment, nonsense and not now the problem, in that I am pointing to it. This is also recalled by the European Community. It is not the problem, or the institutions that control our organisation of state administration, that we have things out of order and that the state administration is not organised rationally as it should be. And in this area, regardless of all the legislation envisaged, which will be adopted in this area and so on and will be adopted in some future and so on, as you say. These things should have been realized long ago and show Slovenia that, while Slovenian citizens, we have a modern, rational organisation, transparent and, if it is transparent, it is certainly kind. Both the function holders and everyone else, as well as the citizens. On this segment, of course, I would also like to conclude. I expect, despite the fact that you have had the opportunity to arrange this a long time ago, that in some future some really thorough reorganization and simplification and functionality will be achieved in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the overall work of the supplementary draft budget. Since we will vote, allow for a few minutes, two more Members who may be in the hallway or somewhere else nearby. We're voting, please. Unfortunately, we see that some have not voted. For this reason, allow another minute to come to the hall. Members and Members, please come to the Chamber. We'll decide. We vote, please, another time. There are 48 Members and Members present for 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Does anyone want a word in the general debate about this work? Leopold Groschel signed up for his writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A warm and cordial greeting to the Secretary of State and others who are here on behalf of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I also applied for a written debate yesterday because I wanted to break down my views on regional development, with particular emphasis on the strategy, but I also did not see the Secretary of State here yesterday; I was, of course, waiting today, and when I realized that he was here, I wanted to summarise some of the common conclusions that were already stated here yesterday and convey them to him in a suitable way, with some suggestions, even today. Because he's gone and he's not here, and because, of course, I highly doubt, or I may be wrong, he's going to read the magnetograms, and that he wouldn't, dear colleague and colleague, take too much time, I'm giving up this debate because I think it's almost meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Other Members have not applied in writing to the debate, so I limit the debate to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget; these are set out in the review of the amendments of 27.11.2001. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 221 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes, as in the 2002 draft budget, within the framework of the individual budgetary user to whom the amendments are tabled. We will first vote on the amendments of the groups of Members and then on the amendment of the working body. We're with the user of the National Assembly. I am putting into discussion and decision the activities of the National Assembly in which we have an amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I must say, I am very strange and skeptical about this amendment. Today we have been talking here, or the minister has been telling us how America was saving its economic situation in the 1930s, but as far as I know, then, in the economic recession, the state authorities, first of all, at the advice of then President Roosevelt, started to save their lives, and then they showed, they said, "so, now let all citizens in this country follow the example we gave them." Here, of course, with this amendment, I find that the highest representative of the State, this Parliament, is not acting on this pattern and is actually increasing with itself, while on the other hand closing, I would say, this pipe and tightening the belt with other users. I would like only the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to explain, in particular, why the tax administration line is falling, whether it is too large or too large. For we can still read that it is very ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 43 Members and Members are present. I think there's more of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. Secondly, we vote on the amendment to the sub-programme The activities of the National Assembly. We're voting. Since we failed to hold a valid vote for the second time, I hereby suspend work for 10 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which will continue at 13.15 a.m. Thank you very much. This is the third time we've voted on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u125	The hall is still completely alone. [[...]] Please, for the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the sub-programme The activities of the National Assembly, and thus, indirectly, we will also find attendance in the Chamber. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Finance Committee to the sub-programme The activities of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with the user of the Nationality Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Six amendments have been tabled for the sub-programme Support to the National Communities; under number 1, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Robert Battelli notes that the amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the same sub-programme; under order number 2, the amendment of the same proposer, with the note that it is also fully summarised in the amendment of the Finance Committee to the same sub-programme; under order number 3, the amendment of the same proposer with the same remark that the amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee; under numbers 4, 5 and 6 are amendments whose proposer is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 5 to 46. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 5 to 45. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. They voted against 46. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We decide on the amendment under five. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under five has been accepted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number six. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're with the user of the Government Information Office. Two amendments have been tabled to the media sub-programme. The proposer of both amendments is a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 45. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 42. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Ministry of Finance, the Sub-programme Investment and Development Programme of the municipalities an amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 44. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against four.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Two amendments have been tabled for the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in the place and abroad. Both are proposed by a group of Members, with the first-signed France Puksic. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 38. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're with the user of the Ministry of Economy. An amendment has been tabled to the Enterprise Restructuring sub-programme, which is proposed by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Two amendments have been tabled for the sub-programme Restructuring of Agriculture and Food. The amendment under 1 shall be proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Jožet Ašić and by a group of Members with first-signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. As yesterday, the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group will also propose to other Members and Members to follow this amendment under number 1, with the first-signed Member, Mr Ašić, is the same amendment, of course only for 2003. So it's the same story we heard yesterday. This is a reallocation within the agricultural work. It is said that in this part of the so-called Eco of Payment 1, areas with more difficult production opportunities. Since there has been no harmonisation and not a positive opinion by the government, and because it would in some way in fact be impossible, particularly during the period most sensitive to the entry into the European Union, a significant reduction of these payments per hectare per treated area would in fact undermine such an amendment in this segment already a minimum of acceptable support in agriculture. We therefore propose that you do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. There were 12 votes against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 44 Members and Members present. I do not think that the reflection on the screen is a reflection of the actual state of Members and Members in the Chamber, so I ask for the necessary attention. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 46. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The sub-programme Rural development has been amended by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 45. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Nine amendments have been tabled for the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Under number 1, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed John Sponik note that the amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee on Finance. Under number 2, the amendment of which is proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Andre Bajuk. Under number 3, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. Under number 4, an amendment is made by the same proposer. Under number 5, the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed French Rokavac. Under number 6 is the amendment of the same proposer. Under number 7, the amendment notes that it has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because it does not comply with the rules on the balance between budgetary revenue and expenditure, so we will not vote on it. Under number 8, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed magi. Andrei Vissiak and under number 9 is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I'm opening a debate on all the amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 45. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under number four. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 7 to 47. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under number five. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under number six. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, please, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. This is one of the amendments where I think it would make sense for the National Assembly to listen to him. It is a regional road Moravče-Catež, which connects the central Slovenian area with Dolenjska. It's a macadam road. But the point is that the reconstruction of this road began in 1998 on a five-mile radius. The problem is that in 1995 a significant plant for the processing of Presad juices was hit by bankruptcy. The Gabrovka area was also specifically linked to the employment of this facility. After that year, the inhabitants of the area had to know each other as they knew and knew. So they had to find jobs either in Trebnja or in Ljubljana. This road actually means a faster connection to their place of work or, on the other hand, the possibility of attracting potential investors to the very place, which would actually start an entrepreneurial activity in this area. Since the development programme plan in 2002 is zero, in 2003 5 million, in 2004 zero and only in 2005 87 million, it means this 5 million 300 modernisation of a hundred metres of the macadamian vehicle. I therefore propose that the 65 million added will ensure, at least in 2003, the modernisation of this road of 1.4 kilometres. In fact, this would ensure that, at least in the foreseeable medium term, this area could have a solid link to the lower highway and, of course, people to their jobs. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment and propose to the National Assembly to listen to me in this explanation and also to the plight of the people in this area and to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will vote against it, and in the situation as we are, I expected my fellow Rokavac to withdraw these amendments. If we had acted this way in voting on very important agricultural programmes a little earlier, we could have voted 500 million here or there. In my opinion, the story would have changed less there than here, where funds would have been redistributed by some important items. It seems to me, on the one hand, to make sense of doing this and insisting on coalition Members in this way, and I expected something else. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We therefore decide on the amendment under order number six. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 39. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We will not vote on the amendment for the above reasons. So we decide on the amendment under 8. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also deciding on the last amendment under order number 9. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment is under nine, accepted. We are with the user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The sub-programme of the Promotion for the Preservation and Opening of Jobs has been amended by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Two amendments have been tabled to the Programmes of Veteran Organisations sub-programme. The amendment under 1 shall be proposed by a group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andrey Bajuk and by a group of Members with the first signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. An amendment has been tabled for the Fellowship sub-programme, which is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diac. Anybody want a word? Mr. Diaci, please. I ask for peace in the Chamber so that Mr Diaci may discuss it. Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. This amendment or amendment with a similar content missed its goal yesterday. The vote, as you may recall, was 26, 26. In 2003, I suppose it would be useful, however, for us to devote these resources to this topic that I have proposed. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 33. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Two amendments have been tabled for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities sub-programme. The amendment under 1 was proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Viszak, and the amendment under order number 2 and the group of Members with the first-signed godomir the Grandchild. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 42. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 16, against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're with the user of the Ministry of Health. The sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals has been amended by a group of Members with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The sub-programme Sport Programme has been amended by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Andrei Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 42. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. An amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk was tabled for the sub-programme Adult Education. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. An amendment to the primary education aid sub-programme has been tabled for the same applicants. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 44. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also have the same amendments to the Secondary Education Aid Sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. An amendment, proposed by a group of Members, with the first signed by Petr Levič, has been tabled in the Sub-programme of the Youth Programme. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're with the user of the Ministry of Culture. An amendment of the Members' Group was tabled for the Sub-programme Pet Culture, with the first signed by Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Two amendments have been tabled in the sub-programme Other programmes in culture. Under one is the amendment of the Group of Members, with the first signed by Robert Battelli, noting that the amendment is fully summarised in the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is located under order number two. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 48. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the specific work as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan, a general debate. I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. I asked earlier for the definition of development programmes, but I didn't get an answer. So I'd like to get an answer at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 12 of the Law on Public Finance explains exactly what the development programme plan means. This article will make sense to me that I will not read it. It is the case that individual items covering investment expenditure and state aid expenditure in a specific part of the budget are to be broken down according to individual projects and after multi-annual dynamics. And this is a plan for development programmes. In short, the item "Investment in Primary Schools" is developed in the development programme plan based on concrete investments in specific schools with multi-annual dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 to 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether the state budget for revenue and expenditure is harmonised? Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The specific part of the budget is not in line with the general part of the budget and it is therefore necessary to draw up a harmonisation amendment in this budget. I propose that the government do so, and then the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the two amendments is considering and voting on them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I note that the state budget is not harmonised. The government should therefore prepare an amendment to harmonise the state budget; the country's labour body will also be identified by the amendment of the government. I'm asking the chairman of the committee and the representative of the government, when is it scheduled for time? He needs the government for half an hour. Mr. Pucko, Chairman of the Finance Board? [[A voice from behind.]] 14.15, as the chairman of the committee said, should therefore be the Committee on Finance. The government representative takes 30 minutes to prepare the harmonisation amendment, which means that the Finance Committee could start work at 2.20 p.m. The National Assembly will therefore continue its work at 2.45 p.m. Thank you very much. By 2.45 p.m., I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Dear Members and honourable Members, I hope you can hear me in your offices as well. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy announces that, according to the committee's work, we can continue not at 2.45 p.m. but at 3:15 p.m. I am calling off my notice because the representatives of the Finance Committee are already among us and they are telling us that the work is already done. So we can continue at 2.45 p.m. The message given by the members of the committee to finish their work is in place. Of course, it is also necessary for some time to prepare this report and the harmonisation amendment for the 2003 proposed supplementary budget. That way, we'll have to wait for these two documents. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we continue to work with the adjourned item 5 of the agenda. Before that, we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall, so I'd like to ask your attention. We're detecting a presence. There are 40 of us in attendance. I think there's a lot more of us in the hall, so I'd like to ask your attention. Next time, we'll find out who's here. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have a ten-minute recess. We'll continue at 3:29 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Dear Members, honourable Members! Please take your seats, as Mr. Wolf said. This is the third time we'll be there! This is the third time we've detected presence! We're picking up the presence! There are 55 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are therefore continuing to hold a meeting of the Assembly by discussing and voting on the Government's amendment to harmonise the 2002 state budget. Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups, and I point out that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, their statements may take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Since no one wants to present the opinion of the parliamentary group, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 to 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2002 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We have the opportunity for individual Members to explain their vote. Mr. Kelemina called first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I personally certainly will not support this draft budget for 2002. Just to make a quick argument. This budget has 261 billion current debts. 125 billion net deficits. This country has more than 1,100 billion known external debt, probably more than 1000 billion domestic debt. This is a personal card of Slovenian finances. Of course, I wonder who's going to pay for this one day. But the government and the government are wasting it like we're the richest country in the world. Without any discussion, without any controversy, he buys a luxury plane that will probably cost 10 billion tolars in the final stage. Our children, for example, in my village, in Blanca, do not even have healthy drinking water and nowhere can we get 20 million tolars so that children can get drinking water and grow into healthy citizens who would then be prepared to pay all these debts that I have counted, even in the future. The budget for 2002 and also, then below is my assessment of the great fraud and also of the great lie. Just one case, if I say so. For example, on the Infrastructure Committee we agreed once, not long ago, or decided that the government would deliver to the National Assembly before the adoption of the 2002 and 2003 budget, a rebalancing of the national programme for the construction of Slovenian railway infrastructure and the rebalancing of motorways in Slovenia. None of this has happened, the government has done nothing of its own and, of course, I wonder what the budget is like if it is not based on long-term programme developments, on which is the basis of which this state budget is prepared at all, and how national programmes that have not been adopted will be implemented, even though it has been promised that this will be done. So, if I say it again. Debt of current budget spending over 261 billion, net deficit over 125 billion, over 1100 billion external debt, probably more than 1000 billion internal debt. For such a business policy, I cannot vote on this country's financial policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next one will explain his voice, Mr Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Nor am I going to support this draft budget for a simple reason, because, when this budget is adopted, national development programmes are actually becoming some kind of paper, without any value, and thus this national assembly, not only the government that proposed this budget, but also this Parliament accepts this fact that these development programmes that you yourself have adopted have become absolutely worthless. However, I fear that this Parliament is wasting its reputation needlessly in the public of Slovenia by such an approach. That's actually what really surprises me. In particular, today's work is an expression and an indicator of a particularly bad situation in this country. I think our fellow Member, Dr Bernik, has pointed out this a number of times, but if we don't think it's worth considering, then the image of Parliament in public is not as good as it is, but if you're looking at public research and reading opinions, it's not good. Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable present. As has been said, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, I will not support this budget either. I am convinced that all members of the National Assembly could imagine the contents of this Act and the 2003 Act. The government is obviously not ready to imagine and the government is continuing its strategy, thus robbing citizens even more. In other words, or better put it, let's fill the budget deficit by raising taxes, but citizens cannot say no because they will be penalised in one way or another. Let me stress once again that it is a very poor travel trip and for 2002 and 2003 the composition of the revenue sides of the state budget. You probably already know that more than 90 per cent of the tax revenue on the income side, which, unfortunately, does not receive anything from the country, is compulsory for these citizens. On the other hand, it is necessary to say, as far as the budget deficit is concerned, from the height to the utopian forecast for 2003, that also, as far as expenditure is concerned, this expenditure has increased by more than 800 million Slovenian tolars in the last seven years, from 500 billion, I apologize, billions, from 500 billion to 1,400 and several billion more. This would, of course, be understandable and, somehow, logical if economic growth would also rise or if inflation were to the extent that money or money in the Republic of Slovenia would be evaluated. But not in these conditions and at this moment, as Slovenia is today. On the one hand you show quite low inflation, on the other hand you use different standards to calculate unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, you predict that economic growth will increase as taxes increase. Even more, you go so far as to say that consumption will increase, which is absolutely impossible. I am convinced that each of those members of this national assembly, who will decide at this time knowingly, must not support this budget. To all those who do not want to face inflationary trends in our country in 2003, I could say at this time, no, let us not accept this budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare a new budget containing anti-inflationary programmes, measures and based on real macroeconomic analyses. And not what is happening today, when Minister Rob and the whole government, for every word I have, mentions and refers to the world of different macroeconomics. And that's what he wants to do with his guilt, which is 100 percent here in their possession. I am only sorry that the discussions so far have shown, from the debates of Members, the leaders of the groups of Members, that you will support this budget in order to give it a green light. Think of it this way: In the first half or on the transition from the first to the second half of the following year, this same national assembly will meet with a rebalancing. What did we do? In seven, six months, we'll meet up with a balance sheet. Why? Because there will be no economic growth. Because even the finance minister will see that the revenue side will not be around in the realization of the current month. But then again, the world situation is to blame. I hope to say that the world situation and events of 11 September came to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that all its inefficiencies and incompetence were guided by developments on the world market and thus washed away its own mark of ignorance and ignorance. I do not intend to support the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 or 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. I will vote against this proposal from the government. I'm well aware you have enough votes. I regret that after nine years of experience the Slovenian government has decided not to face the reality of everything that is happening to us in Slovenian public finances. We decided again, now for two years to cover it up, cover it up, and tell each other beautiful stories about some success that we could not find. I also regret that the National Assembly did not have the presence of such a spirit that is needed at crucial moments in the history of a country. We have decided to move forward so that we will continue to do as we have done so far. The consequences will be very clear and will soon come to the day, no matter how many votes today will cover all of this up. Dear colleagues of the great coalition, you are now taking historic responsibility for this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Unlike the speakers, I will support this budget myself. I am not a socialdemocrat, but the billions that this budget brings to the school population, which it brings to the disabled, are so huge and sufficient in this budget for Slovenia to say that it is a social state. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I thank you and your team for listening to the field of science, for the field of sport. I am proud of this country, whatever we have done, and it seems to me that this budget is one of the rare budgets of the country in transition, which is earmarking money for the programmes that I believe this nation and the people responsible for implementing these programmes will also realize. I do not live in a conundrum of events, nor in the future cluster of events, I live in this country, which I am proud of, and it seems to me that this National Assembly, if it adopts this budget, will act wisely and this budget will also be one of the levers to move forward. Once again, Minister, thank you and your team very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice, first Mr. Pucko, then Mag. It's a trifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since I have already been thinking in September about the 2002 budget and trying to understand the individual items and their content, I will support this draft budget. I will support it in particular because, after several years, we accept it throughout the month of November, in the year before the implementation of this budget begins. I will also support it because it makes it possible for the public administration to function normally because it allows for the continuation of various investments in different areas, since it ensures certain social status of schoolchildren and the normal payment of pensions. I will also support it because it is a good basis for stabilising public finances in the Republic of Slovenia and because I take responsibility with you for the situation in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003, because this policy, which is governed by the current government, is going in the wrong direction. It's just a sequel to what happened before. Of course, with this difference, we are promised a different, even external situation. This is not the real response of the government and the ruling coalition to the situation that has arisen. New taxes, the burden on citizens cannot be a solution at the time of the recession. What was built may have been the social one mentioned by my colleague in front of me, perhaps at the expense of debts and poor management and bad privatisations, whose accumulation is now spilling into other countries. Of this, our country, our citizens will have no benefit. I have already discussed why foreign investors do not make decisions, despite the fact that the tax field looks interesting. This is what is worrying about us and the citizens. Students will still pay a monthly ticket of 20,000, 25,000, or perhaps 30,000 tolls to afford education. It'll only be for the rich. With this, Slovenia will lose its key potential. That's worrying. I do not want to serve such a politician, so I will strongly vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote. Now we are moving to a full vote on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 has been adopted. We have also received two proposals for additional decisions, namely, that the assembly should adopt the following additional decision proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the Ministry of Finance and Members of the National Assembly, Mr Cyril Puck, mag. Andrej Visiak and Mr Ferri Horvat, following the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 in accordance with the amendments adopted and the amendments adopted to harmonise the state budget and, in cooperation with the expert service of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, prepare the final edition of the budget for publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I also propose an additional decision, which is proposed by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Rudolf Mohet. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Dear Members and Members. You have given me this honour to represent the National Assembly at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the mirrors of the government and the government office. However, I must conclude that, as a member of the Statistical Council and also the President, I have written to the government about the problems that the Statistical Office is dealing with and cannot operate in such an environment so that it can easily carry out the census of 2002, so it cannot provide data protection and is also dangerous. That is why I am asking you because after these official requests have been made by the office and the holy government, because it has not organised to support me in this amendment and that we are all here to warn the "Urbi Etorbi" government that this problem will solve its potential.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate on the proposal for an additional decision and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 13. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break six. We are continuing our consideration and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the 2003 state budget. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Therefore, we can move on to a decision on the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the 2003 budget, I would like to say the closing words briefly. The 2003 budget will only deepen the differences already set out from all previous years. The social state, which we certainly have, is a social state on credit, but it could be an even more social state if the elements and the different policies were different and were also covered by the 2003 budget. The saddest part is that this social state of ours is often unjustifiably and immorally exploited. In fact, when many rich and rich benefit from privileges, workers do not have basic necessities of life. As I mentioned, this agony will continue, capital will move from Slovenia to other areas, we will come with such a policy, which is also set out in the 2003 budget, to an ever-increasing lack of employment or labour and the lowest layers in Slovenia will still be affected in the future. I believe that this is the most typical picture of the 2003 budget, so I certainly cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 to 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 has been adopted. I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following additional decision proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the Ministry of Finance and Members of the National Assembly, Mr Cyril Puck, mag. Andrej Visiak and Mr Franz Ferri Horvat, following the adoption of the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, to prepare the final budget for publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the amendments adopted and the amendments adopted to harmonise the state budget and with the cooperation of the Section for Finance and Monetary Policy and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The 11th meeting is so adjourned at this time. Allow me to give you a few more notifications. The 11th meeting will continue on Tuesday, 4 December at 2.00 p.m., with the last reading, which is the 7th item of the agenda, with the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall inform his members that the meeting of the Committee will be held at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, of course, they will consider the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Pahor, informs members that the meeting of the Commission will be held on Tuesday at 6 p.m. The agreement is that due to the above-mentioned agenda they will be meeting on Tuesday, the meetings of the sent-out clubs on Tuesday at 12 p.m. Allow me further, honourable Members, to thank on your behalf the Minister, Secretary of State and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for their cooperation, also to you. Thank you very much and good-bye.
