ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and a good day. I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Marko Diaci, Mag. Majda Potura, Aloise Peterle from 11 a.m. on, Bogomir Vnučec for the morning part of the session, Ivan Bozič for the afternoon part of the session, also Jože Ašič, Samo Bevk from 15.30 p.m. on, Franc Kangler, Rudolf Petan and Ivan Kebrič for the afternoon part of the session and from 17.00 p.m. on. Since we will be able to detect presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the quorum key. We're detecting a presence. Your Honor, there are so many more of us in the hall than the screen shows. Therefore, I ask you kindly, given that it is 10.15 a.m., that we will be able to ensure the conclusion and smooth work of the assembly in the future. Next time we figure out the presence. There are 46 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited representatives of the government to attend today's meeting. Mr. Secretary of State, I welcome you and me very much. Today's continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks; in this regard, the assembly will move on to the 7th item - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund to Reimburse Victims of War and Post-war Violence; and then on a regular basis. Allow me to make another announcement. In the afternoon following at 2.30 p.m., the assembly will hold the 26th item of the agenda - this is the point of election and appointment. And the next notice. In accordance with the agreement of the College, urgent matters still need to be carried out at the meeting of the Assembly this year, which are included in the agenda, up to and including 15 items of the agenda. In the event that the national assembly completes this point today, there will be no extraordinary meeting of the national assembly tomorrow. Given that these are mostly technical laws, my assessment is that we can end our work today, so that's all the notice. So we're moving on to yesterday's broken 5th. It's a day's work. We have remained in the THIRD REPRESENTATION of the proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligation of Slovenia's ironworks, in the announcement by the qualified proposer that he will today prepare an amendment in the third reading to the open article. The amendment reproduces. That is, the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group and the New Slovenia Group have tabled an amendment to Article 2, which essentially summarizes the amendment, which was defined as irrelevant yesterday. You get him on the table right now. Allow me to introduce him to you this time. The amendment is as follows: A new fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth and ninth paragraphs shall be added after the third paragraph, which reads as follows: "The bonds received by the holders of the recovery bonds when the replacement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be paid before 1.1.2008 or later than 31.12.2015. Of the bonds received by the holders of the recovery bonds when replaced by the preceding paragraph of this Act, interest shall be paid twice a year at a minimum of 4,5 % and a maximum of 6,5 % per year from the nominal amount of the principal. The interest rate on interest on bonds shall be fixed within the limits set out in the preceding paragraph of this Article by paying interest on longer-term bonds at a higher interest rate than on bonds with a shorter maturity. The Republic of Slovenia may fulfil its obligations under the bonds early in the event that funds are made available in the adopted budget. Upon early completion, the Republic of Slovenia shall pay its liabilities from bonds in cash or free transferable securities whose issuer is the Republic of Slovenia and shall be paid after one year in the issue. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, by means of a regulation, enter into a more detailed manner the obligations and early fulfilment of the obligations referred to in this Article. The present fourth paragraph is deleted. I am putting the amendment to Article 2 in the following content to the debate. I'm asking, who wants to discuss it? Mr. Kelemina, please. Your Honor! Your Honor! I ask you kindly for peace in the Chamber so that the motioner can explain the amendment he has tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All of you! All of you! All of you! The Group of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia propose that the Republic of Slovenia, through this amendment, arrange for the change of the guarantee to the final public debt or the replacement of the Slovenian Iron Bonds into the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as it did in the case of the replacement of the bonds of the Banking Agency for the Bonds of the Republic of Slovenia in 1995. The bonds for the rehabilitation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Credit Bank Maribor and Commercial Bank Nova Gorica, in the total capital of around 585 000 DEM, were first issued at the Bank Recovery Agency with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for 30 years; it is said, from 1992 to 2022, and an interest rate of 8%, such as the bonds that were now subject to conversion to the final public debt of the country. In 1995, these bonds were replaced by government bonds under the law on the replacement of the bank and savings bonds of the Republic of Slovenia, with the 30-year maturity period being reduced from 1998 to 2010, and the interest rate was reduced from 8% to 4.5% to 6.5%. The Government was also given the power to specify in detail the replacement of the obligor bonds in the statutory framework adopted and the interest rate, depending on the maturity date of the bonds, with the obligation to set a lower interest rate for a shorter period and a higher interest rate for a longer period. Those provisions were in line with the generally applicable rules on the establishment of short- and long-term interest rates on financial markets. Since our government does not simply report public debt management to the National Assembly in all these years, we do not know anything about the actual implementation of this law. However, we believe that at least such conditions as those provided for in 1995 through the replacement of bank bonds should be provided for the exchange of bonds in question. It should be pointed out that both types of bonds are actually intended for the rehabilitation of banks and that there is no reason why, in one or the other cases, the banks of the holders would be in a different economic situation. On the basis of Article 5 of the proposed law - this today, which we have before us - it is still desirable to retain Article 7a of the Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for bonds issued for the purpose of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, and thus the possibility for the Republic of Slovenia to negotiate with individual holders for early purchase of bonds, but the law of the government does not specify any conditions or criteria. This, of course, is a valid reason for which there is certainly something more to be said. We would also ask the government representative whether such a proposal is acceptable or possible to be examined, and that the government might also identify itself to this amendment and realize that this amendment is actually what would somehow identify the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banks in 1995, and that it is also a rehabilitation because it is essentially about the rehabilitation of banks and not about any assistance to ironworks. That is how we propose that this amendment be adopted and that the government also give its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. See, now this amendment wants - and its purpose is only to influence, actively influence and reach into the impossible situations that were stifled in 1992 and are now somehow taken over in public debt. With this amendment, we want to try to reach the hyper-performing interest rate of some bonds that I do not know the case in order to be able to repay with such a high interest rate - this is on brand 8%. This is unacceptable and I think that this National Assembly is obliged to do everything to influence the future public debt in the coming years and, of course, even with all the possibilities and powers it has, it affects the fact that this interest rate is reduced to some other profitable, very profitable, but not so hyper, I would say, profitable interest rate. I think that this amendment must be approached with all its responsibility. I would also like to point out that a similar example of interest rate intervention was already taking place in 1995. This interest rate was also being applied at the time, and I do not see this practice, which has already happened, I see no reason why we should not try it again and, of course, the next generation of Slovenes and Slovenians are also burdened by the extremely high public debt that we are adopting by this law. Therefore, once again, I think it would be very good to do everything and also to comment seriously on this amendment by the government, whether it is not possible to do something in favour of a smaller public debt in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. As already mentioned by our colleague Kelemin, this proposal is also a proposal from the New Slovenia Group. I would just like to remind my fellow Members and colleagues that all the open questions about public debt in our country show that we will still face such an action in the near future as we have now addressed it at this point. In view of the fact that after many years we only accept the fact that our guarantees, which were granted at certain times, are a real burden on the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia. We regret that our government does not report in this country’s congregation in such a way that we have a complete picture of everything that lies ahead. I myself have taken up and proposed to the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances that it should come as soon as possible to a call for proposals, so that we will know once and for all what responsibilities we have already assumed and what remains to be done. We suspect that this is much more than we've been prepared to accept so far. It is precisely because our public debt is already so great and it will increase, because this National Assembly has adopted new guarantees for the years 2002 and 2003 - an additional 90 billion each year, 90 billion tolars - that this thing is even bigger and larger and that we do not have a real opportunity to take responsible decisions in this area. This proposal creates at least a possibility for a smaller expenditure as regards the maintenance of this debt. We ask you to truly judge this matter and also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Of course, I also expect the opinion of the government and the secretariat. There may be a situation at this point that this amendment is not now the most compatible with the existing text, but I think, despite the fact that this amendment is so important that it would be smart to accept it and then with some harmonisation amendments, if necessary, this will be said by the secretariat, this will be corrected in the final version. We really appeal to the government and the National Assembly to think carefully about whether it is really the last time that these terrible interest burdens on the state budget that burden our country to take over this responsibility, that we continue to allow the payment of such high interest and, of course, to impoverish the Slovenian finances that are already so, we know, extremely poor, even though no one admits it. I would ask you to think carefully and to try to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. One of the messengers, or messengers, or I give the word of the Lord Jerovšek, be my guest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u10	However, I would like to know why, with such important and far-reaching consequences for public finances, the Minister of Finance does not participate at such a point. In fact, I also see that there is no response to what my colleagues have presented, how these interest rates should be reduced - well, there has already been, but there is no affirmative response, which would have called on Members of his clients to act in favour of public finances. Indeed, this represents the interests of a turbo-financial oligarchy, which today is the owner of these bonds - they have probably been bought out - and will continue to bear these extremely high interest in the years to come, thus burdening public finances. These are unrealistic interest rates, they are speculative, they have been issued in this way, but - as we have seen here already - similar laws, similar amendments have already been adopted on other occasions, but today - I don't know, it seems to me that some of the materials even say, the consortium of banks insists on doing so. In whose interest? Why are the interests of the state not respected, the interests of reducing public debt? Why are the interests of this so-called fresh turbot of the financial oligarchy, these climbers who are behind all this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. It is customary for Members and Members to be given the floor in the course of the debate. Once we've exhausted you, we'll offer the opportunity to the government, to our secretariat, to respond to concerns. If none of the Members and Members want a word, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State, Mr. Kuchar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would like to say the following to the proposed amendment. The objective of the amendment pursued is undeniably to reduce the obligation to service these bonds. Technically, from a legal point of view, unfortunately, it's not feasible. The replacement, therefore, of the obligations governed by this Act, may be carried out in such a way that the current holders of the bonds receive instead of the existing new bonds. These new bonds can only have the same characteristics as existing bonds. So if we wanted to change our properties, then, of course, the replacement and thus the taking-over of our obligations would not be feasible. As far as further activities are concerned. Our opinion is that it is legally unacceptable to interfere with the existing bond, which is simply issued, that the only way to reduce or optimize the servicing of these bonds is to redeem existing bonds and the State is in charge of this redemption under more favourable conditions. As you know, the state has these conditions. It is indebted at a lower rate, it can be achieved in domestic and foreign markets, so that this is the right way and we will try to achieve these same objectives, which cannot legally be achieved by the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Allow me to give the floor first, according to the requests of your colleagues, to the representative of the secretariat. Mrs. Ogrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Therefore, in view of the proposed amendment to supplement the text of Article 2 and in order to specify more precisely how the State is to fulfil its obligations, I consider that this content is controversial from the point of view of paragraph 1. In fact, the first paragraph speaks of taking on an obligation. However, taking on a commitment means that the person entering a certain debt relationship enters under the same conditions under which his legal predecessor was in a relationship. Therefore - nomotechnically speaking - it is, of course, disputed because, in contradiction, these provisions of the first paragraph and further elaboration, as proposed by the new third paragraph, are in contradiction. Otherwise, it is fundamentally disputed by the principles of commitment, debt-taking under the Bond Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you. I would like to refer to the debate or essentially to the representative of the government as much as possible. In particular, it says that it is technically and legally not feasible. The secretariat’s comment also went in this direction, although it was much milder and talked only about controversy. Look. The proposed solution is practically identical to that implemented in 1995 and has been implemented. We therefore consider the legal basis and the technical and legal feasibility of this business or such a business to be proven. I agree and agree that it is possible for someone to deny this too, and, of course, the holder of this will deny it, because this paper is allowing hyperwinners to do so today. Look. Tell me a related, similar paper that would make it possible to bring up a brand of 8%. I'll sell all my assets myself and buy these bonds if anyone sells them to me. Not by eight, by six! That is why I think that - even by referring to the bond law - this is an unreasonable, unreasonablely high interest rate. Even under the law, it is possible to cut down because of, I would say, an irrational and unacceptable deviation from the normal conditions for such papers. We are today deciding on the huge money that we will accept in public debt, and we do not want to make this attempt, which has already taken place six years ago and has succeeded. Therefore, Members and Members, I ask that in the light of the benefits of this country and somehow the impact on what our craftsmen will pay - we will not pay for this, believe me. We'll pay for it, too, but above all, our craftsmen will pay for it. I think we must do everything we can to try to reduce this extent of commitment to public debt as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, do you think you wanted to? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because not Lord Jerovšek, be my guest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u18	I also wonder how it is not possible today to implement what has been possible since 1995 under the same constitution and legislation. I believe, however, that the government's financial representatives are protecting not the national interest, but are protecting these new bond owners who will have insane hypdonisms on these interest rates, and have studied how it is necessary to resist the adoption of an amendment in Parliament or some law that would go to the benefit of a smaller public debt. This technology, as the state sheds blood in favour of private interests - private interests are legitimate to avoid any confusion - but the interests of this financial oligarchy, which sits in state institutions, but does not work at the expense of institutions, but works at the expense of its private interests, sits in two chairs and constantly drinks blood and drops blood to the state. You are obliged, from the Finance Ministry, to make sure that this country survives, that our grandchildren, our children can live in this country normally, and now we put everything on our next generation just so that some can get to the single capital. This happened a lot in the 10s. It seems to me that government representatives are more representatives of this financial oligarchy than representatives of the state. They're not ready to work for the country's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would also like to address this issue so that my debate will be recorded in the transcript. Why am I saying this? First of all, I'd like to say that I understood the Secretary of State's performance, mag. Kushar, and I think he was right to oppose this amendment formally. But things aren't that simple. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, what does Parliament do if it finds that its predecessors were indecisive when they adopted a catastrophic law five years ago with such an interest rate. If the state, let's say that we would have passed some law at the time - and some of us here were sitting in Parliament and probably voted in favour of this law, but today we find that the solutions were irrational, harmful to the country. Do you think the state has no legal instruments to remedy this? This is a question for parliamentarians and we answer that. Some will make a lot of money on this account, those lucky ones who put that opportunity in place. Do we have legal, constitutional and other options to correct that other Drnovskov coalition? This is what we do, and this is a debate. I want to say here that I do not want to be responsible for today's wrong decision. And here the opposition is right and this is the task of the opposition to pressure the ruling coalition to take good solutions for the country forward. But what will be the end of it? In the end, I will look down, and I will vote as the government representative said. That's not a solution! That's not a solution. We're acting irresponsible. At this point, I do not accept responsibility for the wrong decision of the National Assembly again. I ask the representative of the secretariat whether the state of Slovenia has the constitutional and legal possibility of correcting an incredible solution from past years. A solution that's not in our honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Allow me, honourable Members, who have come forward, in view of the question raised by the representative of the Secretariat, to give the floor first to her, then to you. Thank you very much. Mrs. Ogrinchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Well, some thought in this direction, as all these warnings regarding the proposed amendments went, was also before the drafting of the amendment proposed by the mother's working body. This is a new substance of Article 2, paragraph 3, where it is said that the Republic of Slovenia will issue new bonds, its bonds and thus take over the debt. With regard to the way in which obligations are settled, it is said that the State may also settle its obligations prematurely, in accordance with the general rules of the bond relationship. What does that mean? The basic rule is that the current holder will not be harmed if the State decides to settle the obligation prematurely. This means that in any case, we will also have to deal with anyone who is willing to accept this early settlement. Well, that's kind of a basic rule. However, if we want something different and more precise to settle this relationship, but in a way that respects this basic rule, I think that we should actually take some time to think carefully about the possibilities that the country would have in this regard. At the moment, please, subject to the general rules of the bond relationship, it is difficult for me to give a legally correct answer at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u24	Look, I would warn you - I don't mean to repeat and I don't mean to complicate things again on this subject, but I would also like to draw attention to a matter that seems essential to me - both by law, in particular by the law on bond relations. See, at that point, in 1992, it was an interest rate that was also used by many other legal entities, and it was not some, I don't know, excessively abnormal interest rate at the time. Today, however, this is an absolutely abnormal matter. And also the Bond Relations Act foresees such situations, foresees and provides a formal and legal basis that we can also intervene in these transactions in this case. And I think, and from the debate by the representative of the secretariat, as well as from the discussions of other parliamentary groups, I feel it is our responsibility to do everything we can here today to find a solution in this particular case. And if we need, even an hour or two more, I think we owe this time to find a solution; for we are talking about the huge money that we are going to pay, no one else. That's why we're trying, and I would really ask you, and here I find it very irresponsible of the government -- sorry to have to say this, but it seems irresponsible to me -- that we Members are now looking for this solution. This isn't right! This solution should be on the palm of your hand, and try this solution, but it's not. And here I am really impressed, I would say, by the feeling that the care of the holders of these bonds is probably greater than that of the state, and that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, please, then Mr. Jerovšek and Dr. Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to ask the representative of the government again if I have understood correctly. You have spoken in your presentation that you are prepared to resolve these things in a different way, namely that there is a possibility for the government to make purchases of all these bonds and then recommit itself in a more appropriate way, based on what the domestic and international markets offer today, under such conditions. Of course, I can agree with you from a very basic point of view, but I cannot leave this Chamber as a Member by achieving something that the government may do. You've had this opportunity before, and you haven't done it! This time I want to know why you didn't do it, because the whole government or government with government debt makes it possible for you to do it, but you've still kept it! So, on the promise itself or the recognized possibility that you can solve this in a rational way, I cannot go celebrate holidays and explain to my voters up in the Selska Valley and the Poljanska Valley that this possibility exists. Tuna is small sums, these are very large amounts of money, which are a source of very good profits for our banks on the domestic market, which are completely unacceptable from a market perspective because they would not achieve this in public purchasing and sales. So, if there is this possibility, the government is also willing to take on the responsibility, otherwise in this law, it will - let's say - after three months, do this in a more rational way than it has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I would ask myself the same question, or I would refer to Mr Podobnik's question: does the country have the chance to correct the catastrophic solution of the former Drnovški government? He's got it. I'll answer that right away. At the same time, however, I will commend Mr Podobnik for finding at least one member of the ruling coalition who has some conscience to ask whether it is fair that we are Members of the Slovenian people, but let us work against the majority interests. This is a possibility the state has, but does not wish to fulfil, because if it wanted to, Minister Rob would sit here and propose solutions that would go this way and hide. It does not want to correct this because it has all acted against it so far, against those interests of the smallest possible public debt, especially in the recent period. He doesn't want to fix it because the actors are such a policy, financial ones, I think, who today are the holders of these bonds that we're wondering who they are. Why don't you tell us? And because they are the same, who today are hiding behind the preservation of the national interest, but the unauthentic national interest. I stand alone for an authentic national interest, which is not the same as the national interest that now lies behind in the sale of the banks of this turbo-financial oligarchy. The Turbo Financial Oligarchy is one of those who sold Banka Koper, although the General Sailing was saved by 130 million brand of state money and state representatives in the Supervisory Council did not protect the national interest or authentic national interest. He has no interest in this injustice, this irregularity corrects these consequences, because, for example, the biggest client has delegated his director to Istrabenz, who, we know what he did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u29	Mr. Jerovšek, please hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u30	to the detriment of an authentic national interest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u31	Mr. Jerovšek! In the debate, Mr Jerovšek, please stick to what we have before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u32	We are talking about the consequences for the State of Slovenia's public debt. And it is necessary for us - even though this will not happen to the electorate or very little or very little, because this turbo financial oligarchy also has power over the media. [[The ad from the bench.]] He does not want this because Mr Sponik is this country. He doesn't want to do that. And we must reveal who represents this country in the financial field and whose interests it represents. You can see here that you don't want to do that. A minister would come to Parliament for this kind of money! We were together with Mr. Podobnik 14 days ago in the Austrian Parliament and the bloody path were there - we listened to an hour and a half of the debate - the bloody path was sweated by Chancellor Schuesel and the Foreign Minister. And the opposition was substantially, substantially sharper than our opposition, than I am myself, which I sometimes find to be a grave too harsh. I have warned Mr Podobnik and Mr Kacin, see here what is parliamentaryism and how they hold the Prime Minister's word, and also the President of the Foreign Policy Committee has explained it to us. The chancellor wouldn't allow himself to say, "I'm being held up, but I'm not coming to explain." Even the finance minister doesn't come to the hall! Shame! Shame! Therefore, it is no wonder that our public debt is burdened. So I'm not surprised that, say, 12 acres of big industrial zone [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] With this infrastructure, with 8 kilometres of railway, with gas and all of it, with the factory and technology, the country, the Slovenian Development Society, sells for 2 million marks, and apologizes in response to the question sent, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u34	That everything's fine. [[...]] And Mr Kuchar knows this matter well. That's why the Minister should come here and start acting for the interests of the state, I demand once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to refer to my colleague Jerovšek and also to my colleague Visiak. It is true that colleague Jerovšek sometimes expresses himself very rudely, perhaps harshly. But you know, colleagues and colleagues, what's the problem? In that he's right. What he is talking about is one of the key themes of today in Slovenia. Let us not be embarrassed to talk about the national interest in this house, in the National Assembly. But it is true, Comrade Jerovšek, that your performance would be even more difficult if your president, Janez Janša, who is our fellow Member - sometimes came forward and he is nowhere. But on the subject we're talking about, the next question. I have experience in parliamentary work, you know, and these days before the new year are dangerous for Parliament, when such important things want to be compressed by 7:00 p.m., and then it goes to a party. I warn you, let's be wise and let's decide what we can do with our minds, but let's postpone it to January. The law, which is on the agenda, has one provision to be bound by an association agreement and we are obliged to do something. I think my colleague Pucko will agree with me. But I would ask the representatives of the government - and by the way: they cannot send such an important issue into the fire alone, I will say, the poor secretary of state. Where are the ministers to defend the solutions? But the question has its weight. Does the Law on Bond Relations in force really allow for a different solution? If he allows it, let's break it off and find it. But tell us the truth: or make it possible. We can't speak for the lobby here, we can speak for the country. If there is a legal way to find solutions based on the current bond law that will change our decisions from six years old and will be better, better for the country, then we will do it today. That's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, the Rules of Procedure states that if anyone wants to speak procedurally, he must get the word right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u39	I apologize for having already given my word for the replica to Mr Sponik. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to remind you to respect the Rules of Procedure and, however, to calm down the Members, Mr Jakić, who, with this interlocutor, is disturbing the Members in their performance. There's a doctor around here to help him, if necessary. This is the first, which is an extremely rude behaviour by Members. Thank you very much, and it bothers you again because you can't control yourself clearly, so I say, there's a doctor there and go to him to give you something to calm your nerves. The second thing I would suggest is that the National Assembly actually calls and invites the Minister, at least the Minister of Finance, and that the Minister responds to these pressing questions that arise here. So I suggest we invite him here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Just to clarify, respectable colleagues and colleagues. The assessment that it would be good for the Minister to be here is, of course, an assessment that has its weight. The Minister also has, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, the opportunity to authorize him to represent him at a meeting of the National Assembly, the Secretary of State with all the weight and with all the powers of the Minister I have sent. However, it represents the interests of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State, Mr Kušar, with all the powers. If you allow me, I would ask him to explain the questions which the Members have addressed to him to a large extent now, and then we would do this part. A number of questions were addressed. Mr. Jerovšek, may I give the floor to Mr. Kuchar? Then you replicate your share. Mr. Kuchar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. As regards how the government is trying to reduce public debt, I would like to reiterate what I said in the introduction when I introduced the law that is now in the debate. By this law, the Republic of Slovenia reduces public debt by 9.5 billion. And that's the essence of this law. The issue around bonds is of course very relevant, but this status that these bonds have, with the law proposed, cannot be changed. This is as if they were adopting a law on the decommissioning of existing bondholders. For by such a law they would have taken away from them the rights which they had earned. These rights, as far as interest rates are concerned, we all agree that they are favourable. However, today we have among bond holders, about 70% of these bonds are held by three banks, and about 30% are owned by legal persons, citizens and other natural and legal persons. By recasting this point, which would give existing bonds different characteristics, of course, constitutionally unacceptable. It is not true that the government does not seek to reduce the current public debt or future liabilities, as I have already said, in this law, not by legal basis, but by negotiating with bankers, we have succeeded in achieving that 9.5 billion tolls of guarantees that would otherwise have been paid by this country under the legislation it has adopted in respect of the bail-out guarantees. The legal and economic instrument we have is the purchase of existing bonds. The answer to this question is why the government has not already implemented it if it is possible to do so. Firstly, it is only with this law that the State will become the holder of the bonds and thus the debtor and will require early redemption on the basis of this law. So far, the government or the Republic of Slovenia has not been in debt, but has been married, which means that activities in this regard must follow as proposed the entry into the debt-supply relationship. Do we have an instrument of coercion to force existing owners into immediate payment? My answer is that this instrument is not fully uniform, with the amendment proposed by the Secretariat of the National Assembly, a sentence is added in Article 2 of this Act that the obligations under the bonds issued may also be met prematurely, in accordance with the general principles of bond law. This is an extension that will allow you to start an activity for early buy-in and replace less favourable with a more favourable debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'd like to put my word in order so I won't be guilty. First of all, he wanted to replicate Mr Jerovšek's implementation of Mr Podobnik. Then Dr. Bernik, Mr. Kelemina and then Dr. Bayuk were announced. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Your Honor! Please, just so that we do not repeat ourselves in the implementation and do not repeat the same claims that have already been heard in this Chamber all the time. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I have taken it back to Mr Podobnik's statement, which is correct and I will join her in some way that the time before the new year is a dangerous time for the State's obligations and for the consequences for the country. And there's another dangerous time: time before leave, before the time of the "acid cucumbers". In fact, we always get from the Slovenian government to the table of that legal and financial obligation right in those two times: before the new year, and at the last July meeting, which leaves disastrous consequences for state finances, for public finances. And there's no way it's like that! It is no coincidence that so, and because of this my words, although not replicated, are not slave and sharp, are necessary robes - since I was not condemned by my colleague Podobnik. But at the same time, I mentioned him earlier in a much more bizarre matter: what the Austrian opposition was saying, what expressions, about fraud, lies, and I don't know what she was using when we listened to an hour and a half in the Austrian Parliament. And that's where we learn parliamentaryism, which has a parliamentary tradition. That's why I don't accept, I mean, it's not that the opposition in our House is sharp, it's rough - it's soft. [[...]] That's why the state, the government, can do what it can do. Madam Vice-President, in such a kind, soft manner you have excused the Minister, I do not know if it is quite true, but I have heard here that he has an obligation to accept. It certainly has obligations with New Year's receptions, with representatives of that national interest, but not with representatives of an authentic national interest. The authentic national interest should be expressed here and should be defended here. This national interest, which has been present in Slovenia for the past few weeks, is an unauthentic national interest. I think that between those owners there are now natural persons who own 30% of these bonds and also representatives of 70% of the ownership of banks, even by their own souls and in their own way there are many - but I will not do injustice, there are great differences between them - it is also among the representatives of that national interest, which is not an authentic national interest. [[..]] We need to distinguish between genuine national interest and national interest as shown in recent weeks. That is why we are some who are defending an authentic national interest in the great dilemma and great problems and the great rift. We cannot just sign under everything, although we could sign under every emissary who walks with a paper about national interest, because there is an unauthentic national interest behind him, but hides the so-called national interest, which is the interest of this financial turbot of the oligarchy, which in ten years has become an oligarchy, financial, and now thinks that the long-term oligarchy that Slovenia has become their Latifund. Let the Minister come to defend the authentic national interest here and give up any reception with the representatives of that national interest! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I repeat, of course, to my colleague Jerovšek, but before that, of course, I call my colleague Sok. If he goes to a Canadian, English or any other parliament, he will, of course, be able to see that interlocutors are part of parliamentary democracy and that interlocutors are in fact much worse in these parliaments that I have listed. For the sake of illustration only, in the Canadian Parliament, he has the presiding headphones to hear the speaker, because everyone else has the phone rings. Now to Mr Jerovsk. [[The voices in the background.]] Of course, I would like to say to Mr Jerovsk that the sooner I interrupted him, I broke his red thread and apologized to him. However, I would like to tell him, of course, that the Austrian model of democracy is not the one we would be committed to. In the Austrian model of democracy, Mr Haider and his party challenge the Constitutional Court's decision on bilinguality and deny the rule of law. In the Austrian Parliament, of course, they speak much worse than, of course, the opposition or the position here, that I do not say how the freedom-makers in the Parliament themselves insult their colleagues and insult everyone around them. That is why, of course, I would ask Mr Jerovska not to sell flowers on democracy in the neighbouring country, particularly as regards parliamentary looks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. However, our Parliament is sovereign in its work and we have its own rules of procedure and the right and duty of Members and Members to talk about the issue on the agenda. And we also have instruments: a reminder once, twice, three times and a withdrawal. Your Honor! Please. Given that we are a sovereign state and that the work of foreign parliaments, of course, does not directly interfere with the way we work, that we stick to our frameworks. This is our rules of procedure and the debate on how someone works elsewhere in this House below I do not intend to allow. We have before us an amendment from the opposition party that talks about how the state will take over the bail bonds and we can only talk about this issue. The Secretary of State has given an indisputable explanation, including a representative of the secretariat, so please, if the opposition has better arguments to serve us with these, not with the work of other parliaments. Dr. Bernick has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Secretary of State! I don't envy you sitting on the barbeque instead of your minister. But of course, you're paid for it, that's part of your job. However, one would think that in such an important ministry there might be some solutions, not just one way to solve this problem. I hope that you have also offered this solution to your Minister, if you have not, is relatively sad. You know, it's not so much about legal intelligence or financial expertise, it's about attitude to things, so I see the whole thing. I can tell you that for several decades I have been interested in why some lawyers can only say what you can't tell you, what you can do, how you'll find some bends and stuff, and sometimes you'll have to force it to get an answer to such a question. In my view, the bond is simply a financial contract between the two parties. I do not know the terms of this contract, but if the government was prepared to go into bond transactions and that the whole long-term transaction was for the rehabilitation of banks, one would think that under these conditions there would be an option or a possibility of changing the conditions if the conditions in the financial market were to change. And for such a long time it was necessary to expect this to happen. I'm surprised that didn't happen. It is said that someone simply favored the interests of some, and on the other hand, he did not think about how much this country would cost. In addition, I would say that the country has in its hands a number of instruments with which it can press - or whatever you want, it negotiates with the current owners and offers them something in return. Well, if I say a little funny, here comes a phrase from the ancient film Boter - I should have made an offer that the other side can't reject well, it's funny to say, but we know such instruments well in the financial world and I think our ability to solve such problems would not be so difficult. Let me say it's going here now, whether it was a lack of financial and legal imagination. With the money we're talking about today, we could hire the best lawyers, the best financial experts for some of this money we're gonna lose now if we don't. You also mentioned the case of decommissioning. What would it look like if the state suddenly went into rediscovery? Yeah, it's an accident. For discharges are still on the agenda, only under another name. It is said that the law we have adopted in Parliament is not being implemented. Isn't that actually an extension of nationalisation? Well, I'd say I shouldn't have used this case. In any case, however, it is necessary for your Minister to come here and tell those options he has to solve this problem in the interests of taxpayers, in the interests of the State and of course to take into account the interest of those who own these bonds. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Jerovšek, I mean the implementation of Whom? [[...]] Mr. Squirrel?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u50	Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mr Jakič spoke about parliaments abroad. I don't allow replicas in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u52	I have to throw away his false allegations. And, Madam Vice-President, you allowed yourself again, although Mr Jakič spoke of positive cases of parliamentaryism. However, before his performance, you had no sermon and acted against the position with your velvet voice. Why do you always have a sermon before the opposition? [[Voices and laughter from the hall.]] And you can't say that you won't let me reject his claims and instigation in his performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u53	Only on the agenda, Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u54	I'll refuse in accordance with the rules of procedure and you'll admit to me the replica. You're not gonna take this away from me because you've done this too many times. Otherwise, you apologized when you realized you were violating the rules of procedure. You're not breaking it today. Please! And a second time. Before Mr Jakič raises your hand, have a sermon and be correct once. And you already see something against the rules of procedure in his performance. Why do you keep looking at the opposition's head? Mr Jakič's performance was extremely useful. The school of parliamentaryism is exceptional, and I therefore support that it finally had to admit once that parliamentaryism is everything but what we said and advocated in the business debate. Parliament is a place of controversy. And yet, in this part I absolutely support it, and therefore I tell you that the second time you don't just hear our interlocutors and protest. You can hear others - or you can't hear them, in such a case. And a third. But I do not allow Mr. Jakič's instigation that I "planted flowers" and applied for an Austrian model. I merely cited the Austrian parliamentary model, the relationship between the opposition and the position, the representation of national interests, the authentic national interests that the Austrians have and strongly represent. However, I do not allow myself to be subdued as if I were pledging for Haider's system, but for Haider's ideas, they are being vilified in this country entirely by others, even those who advocate an unauthentic national interest. Mr. Jakich. For Haider's ideas, you will also vote, and efforts will be made if you sell the Maribor bank to an Austrian buyer. Why do you think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, in accordance with Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u56	Whoa, whoa, whoa, the financial consequences I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u57	For the first time, I warn you not to talk about the agenda item. [[...]] That's the first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u58	You're taking me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u59	I'm giving you a chance to keep talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u60	We would have stopped him, Mr. Jakič, when he talked about it, you didn't, I have the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u61	I'm not at the beginning when you challenged your replica, a replica of a gentleman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u62	Please don't interrupt me because you have no right to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u63	You received your first warning, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u64	Why do you think no one writes that if the sale of the Austrian bank is to be the beginning of the implementation of that command: Make me this country again German. Who Mr. Haider - you addressed the wrong address. The United List is for this election campaign [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u65	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u66	recommended Mr Haider's campaign to his activists and had the same password "Neue Kraft" - new energy. [[...]] It was Haider's pre-election password and they took it directly and attacked it, not us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u67	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u68	It's not understandable. It's the Members talking to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u69	Your Honor, Mr Jerovšek, I ask you to exclude yourself. Thank you very much. They signed up for Dr. Bajuk, are you? [[...]] Excuse me, Mr. Kelemina, then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will speak and I will be patient, moderate, respectful, just as you have taught us with the help of the media that the position must be such so that other disadvantages can then be done in this country and that this is not heard in the public. So, I'm really only going to be talking about this point and this amendment right now. By the way, you said not to repeat ourselves, but not to be here because you don't want to hear it, just once that we -- let's say -- had the capital for it to be 27 billion and that in seven years we collected and paid - the country paid - 22 billion interest; not just for that, but for that, then together with other obligations of iron. Yesterday this information was said - this is a very important information. In seven years we paid 22 billion interest! Now, about how to find a new solution - not to repeat ourselves. Look. We don't know what it says in this contract, in these basic bonds contracts, etc., we don't know what it says, and we don't know what the options are, how this problem could be solved. Maybe there are some provisions in which something can be found, or something has been said, but I don't believe either, because I just don't have those documents and I can't trust anyone anymore. However, the fact that banks - these banks that have, you say, 70 percent of these liabilities - is clear that they do not want early sales. Indeed, it is known that they have nowhere to go with capital and that such investments can no longer be expected. And that's why they won't. However, we must not allow in the National Assembly that we are now bringing public finances to our knees because of such contracts, although of course Mr Drnovšek will never admit it - and it is only right because otherwise he cannot be Prime Minister if he admits that the finances are "on the dog". He must defend positive, optimistic and so on. That's understandable. However, I personally think that we must put some pressure on these banks if there is no other instrument to agree that these things will change and improve in favour of the national benefits of this country. See, the National Assembly, the government, the media, all together, we can certainly have some initiative, some national pressure on these businessmen, to start thinking differently and that these things change if there is no other solution. And now, how can we fix this? I'd ask myself the question: how? Whether we can change the law or change this law to - say so - at the beginning of 2002, if we have to take this now - if that is possible. Or should we make a decision by the National Assembly to commit the government to buy back these Slovenian ironworks bonds and replace them with cheaper securities within six months or, I don't know, within a reasonable period. And if that's acceptable. I would just like to ask that we really don't move forward today until we find a solution to how we're going to do this - if we can't solve this issue today - how we can solve it in the second half of 2002. One solution needs to be said today and the National Assembly must decide and find a solution: either with additional conclusions or with some government obligations to do something, or with parliamentary, governmental and media pressure on banks to deal with these matters. Today we have to find a solution! I've only listed a few of them myself. However, I expect the government to identify what is the most realistic and possible and acceptable thing to do with these anomalies that are now being abolished by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to formally record the protest of our parliamentary group because the procedural proposal by my colleague Sok was not put to the vote. The reasons given by the presidents, why the minister is not or where he is detained, are not sufficient. In fact, I would like to mention and replicate to the Secretary of State. Madam President has already taught us that she is here as a full representative of the Slovenian government. And he has also explained to us now that it is only through this law that we take responsibility for this - yes, part of the public debt - for the guarantees we accepted in 1992. And right here is the core of the whole problem. We must face this once and for all once and for all, that in the past the Slovenian state has signed guarantees under such and different laws, and everyone knows that it is not necessary to be unaware of what specialist in the public finances of Slovenia, that we are aware that the debt of Slovenian ironworks is on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers from the first day. From day one! However, as part of one of these chapters in the success story, we have decided not to record it. Why? Because we are still insisting on this pattern that, as far as public finances are concerned, we are prepared to deceive ourselves first. Yeah, who are you bringing around?Oh, my God! Only by creating the possibility that today, Mr representative, the full representative of the Slovenian government, would teach us, "Yes, because we did not have the legal basis for this". But anyone who has spent at least half an hour studying how to manage public debt anywhere in the world knows that such changes are being done every day! And if there was no legal basis, why did not the government of this national assembly warn in 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and right to this day? At the last moment, we come, and we are Members of Parliament, just in front of this wall: something needs to be done immediately, if not, and the entire system of the Slovenian ironworks is failing. It's our problem that we're still wrong. Therefore, in the opposition, we have asked the Finance Ministry to come to this National Assembly once and for all with a concrete proposal on how we will record all these responsibilities that we already have so that we will not accept an additional 10 or 20% increase in our public debt at a pre-godly meeting next year, as we already know today, we already know that it is on the shoulders of our taxpayers. That's unacceptable! Legally, the argument is totally unacceptable, Mr. Secretary of State! Our Ministry of Finance had a duty to warn the National Assembly that over the years we have paid excessive interest rates. And to whom - as you yourself have confessed: in the last period only three banks! Isn't that clear? Is it not clear that the success story of some Slovenian companies is also related to the fact that we do not know in time where the interests of future generations of Slovenians are? Mr State Secretary, but you have not yet answered this question whether the government is willing to accept the duty in this law to do so within three months, namely to redeem the bonds in such a way that we will be in debt under better conditions and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. So did the mags. Petty Officer and Mr Barovic, allow the Secretary of State to answer Dr Bayuk's questions first. Can I? Thank you very much. Mr. Kuchar, please. Even on Mr. Kelemina's questions, I apologize. On the questions raised so far by Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. My opinion is that it is not necessary to make legal commitments, to impose an obligation on the government to optimise public debt. The Government has this obligation and is implementing it every day. Of course, it can be implemented within the legal framework, partly by exerting pressure on banks. We have managed to reduce public debt by 9.5 billion, as I have already said many times today. Only by means of a method of pressure - and this is the answer to Mr Kelemina's question - have we been able to achieve that the banks that had previously had a State guarantee as a guarantee that the Slovenian ironworks would pay their debt of 5 billion agreed to withdraw this State guarantee; it is said that the state is no longer a debtor and a public debt bearer, but that it is insured for its credit claims on the assets of the Slovenian ironworks. We've been doing this very intensively for the last four, five months. As regards the possible change in the securities issued. I must say that I do not know the case for the State to change after the securities have been issued - especially if it is a state-owned paper. In any event, the State must fulfil all securities rights. Such cases, when the state is changing its securities qualitatively, by changing properties to the detriment of the holders, I don't know - and I can't take them for granted. However, this government will work on all the other options it has under existing legislation, in order to be a less favourable debt, and not only the debt we are talking about today, it is still quite something, but it is not only this bond that is not comfortable, but that it will work on all the bonds that have already been issued in this direction to replace the unfavourable debt with a more favourable one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Secretary of State. Previously, you predicted that you could buy me those bonds early and replace them with cheaper securities. Here, too, I have somehow seen the solution to further pressure now, namely with the National Assembly, the government and the media, to banks, to actually go into this action and to do so and then, in the shortest possible time, the bonds are exchanged with cheaper securities. This option you have previously predicted is the only possible way, probably, and then let us do something in this direction. And tell us when we can do this, when we can do this, or how long these negotiations are, how we can achieve this outcome as soon as possible. We must do so, and today we must find this solution: whether it is with an additional conclusion or how we should do it. I would also ask that you try to help yourself to resolve these questions. Since the last time, actually five minutes before the 12th or the second before the 12th, with this amendment, when we tabled it in the third reading, we have now opened this controversial debate to try to do something else in this direction. If you don't, it'll all go under the carpet again, and you'll save as much as you can. No! No! We are here to help the government, to seek solutions, to propose solutions, and then to find a common interest that is truly Slovenia's widest national interest. I think we have to do this. Please, if you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Kuchar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The government will take action to replace this debt as soon as it becomes the holder of this debt. This means that it is paid first and is owed under more favourable conditions for this same amount of debt. I am counting on the possibility that the bond swap transaction - this means that the existing bonds issued will be replaced by new bonds, in which the issuer will be another person, not the Slovenian Iron Company anymore, but the Republic of Slovenia, that this operation can be carried out within one or two months and at the same time with the technical bond swap procedure, we will immediately start the activities, especially on a reference to three banks, in order to pay these commitments prematurely.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, two colleagues raised their hand. Are these replicas for the execution of the Secretary of State, because otherwise I have more mags to say. Petty Officer, Mr Barovic and Mr Cuckati. Are these replicas or debates? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u80	I'll just be a minute, 'cause it's got to be in context. I would like to know from the Secretary of State, he mentioned earlier that 30% of these bonds are already in the possession of natural persons, that is to say 50.3 million brand bonds have been sold by banks on the secondary market. I want to know what kind of discount they sold them with -- these are state banks -- that we will be able to calculate the hyperwinners of those natural persons who were taught to do it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I will give the Secretary of State my word after we have exhausted this circle that I mentioned earlier. Mr. Squirrel, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. A short replica of the last and last performance by the Secretary of State, Mag. It's a lizard. I agree with you and your conclusion that all securities rights must be met. This is about the credibility of the state. The original sin was in the first law, which was created at the pre-authority time in 1992. It's 1992. It was prepared by the first, then Drnovskov government. The question that remains open here may be excruciating, but I would appreciate your answer, but it's the following. So, do you assure me that there are no other instruments that would have a basis in the current bond law, but only the path that you pointed out. Therefore, due to the question of constitutionality, legal inadequacy or political inadequacy. For me, the key question is whether we have received a completely correct answer that there are no other ways. If you say that, then of course I will reject the current amendment and support the government's solution. It is true, however, that the Secretary of State has announced, within the next few months, the active role of the government in this area. Whether your prediction is real or not, that's what I'd ask myself. Have you done so because of our pressure and this legitimate pressure on the government in this case, or do you really see that within the next two, three months, you can start looking for other options for a very unfavourable debt to qualify as more favourable? If you can ensure this, this is today a major success of the National Assembly and this debate. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. This debate has made it very clear where we should actually seek and define national interest. The national interest must primarily be there to treat public property with State ownership as a liability. This is what the most citizens expect. [[Thank you very much.]] So they're doing the most extreme thing. Secondly, the State is a protector and provides market conditions. Clearly, the market conditions were not provided here at the starting point. And that's why we're fixing it. This can also be the result of rotten political bargaining, or the weaknesses of one moment. Let's just say that the law was fast-adopted. This means for us a lesson that, as the opposition, we will have to work even more responsibly, even harder. That is why we will have to act more responsibly when we discuss the budget, with the provision of countless guarantees that arise in the creation of new funds. It's mostly government. If it is a government, then let it offer professional proposals: for national interest, not for partial interest. I am, of course, interested in what Mr Podobnik asked before me, how far this national interest I have been talking about can be achieved. And secondly, to ensure legal and constitutionality. How many more options do these frames give us? I'd like to ask you a question. How exactly is the defined early buy-in clause defined? That's what I'm interested in. By the way, I don't know the early redemption clause. And it's probably someone else's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Respectable colleague, colleagues. If I understand correctly, this debate has been going on for a long time and is linked to the amendment to the proposed Act on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks to Article 2 tabled by the SDS Group of Members and Nova Slovenija. Is that right? If I speak of this amendment, allow me to express my agreement with the explanation of this amendment, because anyone who would be the owner of the bonds he would have bought would have wanted the money to turn around as quickly as possible. But I don't think that's the problem. When I listened a little earlier to the Secretary, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, I - I think - I also understood, among other things, that a state of public debt could be resolved without any legal basis. If I didn't, very precisely and correctly say what I understood, I apologize in advance. I'd be happy to. Why? The National Assembly, this collective is today placed in checkmate position. If we say that this is not the time or this speed is not suitable to solve with the quick adoption of this law "ad hoc", quickly, then the National Assembly will be guilty if you, you have stalled, you wanted a regular procedure, you wanted no precision, and the Slovenian ironworks failed. If we accept anything today and the Slovenian ironworks will accidentally fail, it will be this national assembly, these 90 people, and my name will also be on the list that it is our fault that what has happened has happened. I think Mr. Sponik has already talked about this today. And once again, such a solution, from experience, to "ad hoc", quickly, does not mean a solution. I happen to come, or I'm glad to come from Zasavje, where we used bonds to save big industrial giants who were worth a lot of money. The machinery factory, Iskra, the giants, and the bonds and their owners collapsed. I'm afraid that I'm going to be signed up to make it all go away. And what's more, a lot of words have been said today, just about national interest. National interest, national interest, national interest. It is surprising, however, that we have only asked - with our signatures or with our consent - that this National Assembly should put at least the draft laws that resolve the national interest on the agenda, but we have been against it. We are still offering this solution in parallel. And my colleagues and colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I call for them to join the signatures to discuss national interest at an extraordinary meeting. Once again: The Slovenian National Party estimates that this law places the National Assembly in checkmate position and wants to force one or the other solution for which, of course, the consequences will be borne or borne by us. And we're against it, and we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Mr Tsukjat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u88	Your Honor! Personally, I would suggest that this debate on this amendment should gradually lead to a happy end. I am pleased to see that all of us, including the government representatives, that the bonds issued at that time after 8% of the yield were certainly very favourable for the buyers, but that they meant very harmful contracts for the country. I emphasize: harmful contracts! The consequences of these harmful contracts will, of course, be borne by taxpayers and this poor country, which is already, indeed, very indebted, for many years. That's what we all figure out. At the same time, it has been said several times that the Bond Relations Act allows changes to contracts due to changed circumstances. And that we had the same situation in 1995 when the Banks and Savings and Bonds of the Republic of Slovenia were exchanged. And with the law then, we changed the interest rate of 8% to 4.5 to 6.5% and the maturity from 30 years to 2010. By adopting such a law, we have allowed the government to do so by regulation. We're in the same situation now. Before the same. No one's gonna convince me or convince me that that's not possible. And this amendment, which is proposed, does not want anything other than the government to allow what it obviously intends to do to resolve this issue. Nothing else. And I'm sure the amendment will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Kuchar, I think there have been a lot of questions addressed to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. With regard to the question of Mr Jerovska, are the conditions under which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u91	Mr. Jerovšek, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u92	banks sold and new customers, new bond holders, I can answer that, of course, these conditions are known only to buyers and sellers. [[...]] So it responds to whether the discount when someone bought the bond issued by the Slovenian Ironworks was from the first holder, that is, the bank, we do not know these conditions. The question of Mr. Sponik. How do we really see the possibility of realisation or the possibility of optimising debt? I don't want to make any promises just like that, but I would just like to say that the 5 billion optimisation I've already talked about and the essence of this law is not a promise, but a fact has been made. The government has already executed these 5 billion when it has negotiated with banks not to renew guarantees that will fall to 5 days by 31.12. Because we can no longer extend them to 5 billion if this law is not adopted. So I don't want to promise what we're going to do, but I wanted to illustrate what we've done. And there's no doubt we'd be working in this direction. With regard to the law which Mr Tsukjat mentioned, which was adopted in relation to bank bonds and recovery bonds. It should be noted that there was a different situation at the time and that the law was adopted after an agreement was made between the holders of those bonds and the State. These bonds did not have a State guarantee at the time. And they were from this point of view, a paper of value that was as high as the quality of the charges. And we know from the levies that he was completely unquality. Today we have a situation where the guarantee for the payment of these bonds is a state. And, of course, possible arrangements with bondholders are much more difficult than they were then. This is certainly the case, but the situation is not comparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much for explaining to Mr. Secretary of State. But I'm not surprised. In such an eminent debate, the Secretary of State, who is a representative of a government owned by state banks, has no data or appearance - under what conditions was the sale of state property. What discount? That it's just a customer thing. But if this is state property, there was a supervisor there on behalf of the government, a supervisory council. Someone had to approve these conditions. I must say that this is about the same concern that I have seen recently in the sale of companies in the Slovenian Development Society. State property is being sold out, it's being shared. But no one knows under what conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Just an additional question to the Secretary of State and thank you for your word. In all your implementations, it is not clear when you are talking about these guarantees, which have a basis in the 1992 law, and about other guarantees, which I do not know the legal basis, but you will certainly explain to me the guarantees for permanent liquid assets. Because these are two different things and it is not clear in your presentations when you talk about one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Well, I didn't exactly get the answer to the question. But it is very important for any further action. I believe - on the basis of this information - that there is a possibility to negotiate, as the terms of bond guarantees with a higher quality guarantor are changing. The bond owners are also likely to be interested in this. But it is true, on the other hand, that because of the association agreement, this government and all of us together are in trouble, which gives better negotiations to bond buyers and owners, owners. At the same time, of course, this could trigger another debate to finally entrust the government to give us real information, real debt data, guarantees, all 'dead lines' when they come. This will need to be known in order not to be forced in time to accept some unfinished, unprofessional and forced solutions. However, I still think that the government - I don't know for a while whether it's an hour or five hours - should consider the remaining possibilities that open up in the light of this. Unless, of course, the government has some such information that it doesn't want to talk about in front of us. Okay, we can go to a secret session. Therefore, the fact that the government does not have access to the data contained in the contract is somewhat unusual, since the government was the owner of this, it is the owner of the Slovenian ironworks, at least at the time that this financial act was reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since there are no further questions, Mr Kuchar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. As to whether the government has information about this guy's business that we're talking about today. Look, the bank with its portfolio of securities, the average bank of normal size, makes tens of millions of dollars a day in transactions, sale and purchase of securities. I don't think anyone expects the government to follow every purchase and sale of securities in those banks where they don't own it. We're talking about the Goren Bank. In the Gorenje Bank, the government does not have a single percentage of ownership, not to mention two other banks where the government is indirectly in a ownership relationship, namely Koroška and Velenska Banka. Mr Bajuk's question is when we are talking about short-term loans and when we are talking about bonds. When I talk about reducing public debt by 9.5 billion tolars, I am talking about short-term loans and the country's guarantees to pay these short-term loans and not bonds. As for the question of the last discusser, regarding the data on the Slovenian ironworks, I would just like to remind Parliament that once a year Parliament is considering the operation of the Slovenian ironworks; every year, I think, so far it has been on the agenda. And, of course, the fact that the parliamentary committee that considered the bill received all the possible information that there are on Slovenian ironworks that Members wanted in their implementation and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Just an explanation from the Secretary of State. While your answer that the National Assembly in previous compositions has received a report on the Slovenian Ironworks each year, this is the answer to my question why the government has not responded to the fact that we have taken responsibility through bonds, with interest rates beyond what the market demands today or at that time. Is that the answer to my question? Otherwise, you're returning responsibility to this national council. That's the answer to my question. Because you haven't answered me yet why the government didn't stand up for a timely solution to this problem. That is also a legitimate question, Mr Secretary of State! Slovenians and Slovenians, who are going to pay for this thing, have a right to know why these things happened if there is any explanation at all. Can you explain why and why such silence was, whenever the national assembly - on this issue - was discussed by the National Assembly in the case of the Slovenian Ironworks, that it had received annual reports. That's my question to you, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Thank you very much. However, government representatives usually also take the floor. Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary of State, to the implementation of Mr. Bayuk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment, which is to be elected by the motioner Dr. Bayuk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u104	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please take one-hour leave so that we can consult and decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Before making a decision, of course, each parliamentary group shall have the right to take a break from the decision. We continue our work in the afternoon work when we vote and finish the 5th item of the agenda, and then, as I have predicted, the point of election and appointment will turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the afternoon session. Added excuses for continuing the 11th session are: Mr. Miran Potrč from 17.45 p.m., Davorin Terčon for the afternoon part, Miran Jerič for the afternoon part, Zoran Gračner for the afternoon part, mag. Janez Kramberger for the start of the afternoon's work. We stayed just before we decided on the amendment. We will first determine the presence and please insert the cards or see if the real cards are inserted. Please, if we press the quorum. 47 present - I find that we are concluding. Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u107	Yeah, we don't have a voter in the back row here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u108	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u109	They don't make us a voting device in the back row. Please, if you could just check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u110	Well, let's try again to press the "quorum" to see if everything works out as it should. We'd better do it now than later. Is it working yet? Is it necessary, Mr. Grandchild, to do it again?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thanks, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u112	Nice to meet you. So, what do we have left now? There are 47 of us. We can make decisions. I'd like to ask Dr. Bayuk if he wants a word before making a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group has asked for this time that we have also re-examined the data and interpretations we have heard from the government - we have not been persuaded otherwise and we will insist on supporting this amendment, and we also recommend and ask all our colleagues and colleagues to join us, once and for all, to take a different path in the performance of our public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? [[Yes, you can.]] So we are voting on the amendment to Article 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and are moving on to the issue of coherence. We're a little out of line in professional services, I see. A moment of patience, please. So, the question of coherence. Excuse me? Is the mutual compatibility of the law broken because of the amendments? Good. Thank you. No, that is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. So we are voting on the law as a whole. Oh, excuse me. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Bajuk, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are well aware that the essential feature of this law is that the Slovenian State once and for all accepts the fact that it has been known for many years that all these guarantees are an inevitable part of our public debt; in this regard, we are convinced that we must do so. On the other hand, we cannot support this law in the way it was formulated, especially because most of this national council did not want to accept the proposed amendment, so we will abstain in this law - New Slovenia will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party Group - I have already said our opinion - we have once again decided what to do. In any case, we are placed in checkmate position if we reject the law, which is the procedure and the law and imperfection - of course we will blame us for all the consequences. If we don't accept it, we'll be guilty again of the consequences. But if we accept it, if we confirm it today, we can say that at least for this or with good news, that we will save or prolong the working life of some people. And I have been authorized to vote in favour of the Slovenian National Party on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Once again, by saying publicly and loudly that we are placed in checkmate position where solutions in one way or another, for the good of the people, are not. For us, that's the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Can we move on to decision-making? Yes, you can. So we are voting on the whole law. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 48 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda, and I do not conclude this item on the agenda because two additional decisions have been tabled. [[...]] You've got the material. Who wants to discuss the proposed additional conclusions? Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party are proposing this additional decision or these two additional conclusions in the belief that this very debate, which we have all witnessed today, requires responsible action from the National Assembly to ensure that something like what we have experienced today will never happen again. As a first decision, we therefore propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia report within 30 days to the National Assembly on the state and management plan of the public debt assumed under the Act on the takeover of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks. This in itself requires the government to report to the National Assembly on what it will really do, whether we will continue to be subject to the various lobby of the financial world in our country or, once and for all, we will decide that we will act rationally, that we will see our future together in a different way than we have been before. The second decision, however, requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report by 15 March 2002 to the National Assembly, for the first time, on the state debt, principals and planned interest rates of the State budget, state funds, state-owned public undertakings under 31.12.2001 and on the maturity of individual years, and for the second time on the state of all State budget guarantees, state funds, state public undertakings under 31.12.2001, with an assessment of their cashing into public funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This Decision requires us to obtain sufficient information once and for all in the National Assembly so that we can take decisive action. So far, as we have found in the debate we had this morning, this has happened to us that at the last moment the government comes up with such a proposal or a different one and that we must decide in haste on things that should not be dealt with in such a way. It is essential that we once and for all understand and get information about what is already on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers, which has not been recognised as such. As we found this morning, throughout the years the government knew and realized that the guarantee of the Slovenian ironworks was already a real, virtual, though not legal, part of our debt. What else is out there and we don't know! That's what we need to know. clarity in our public finances, we urgently need this clear image, so we ask all of you to support us in this decision so that we can decide on these matters in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss the proposed additional conclusions? Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I would like to strengthen what Dr. Bajuk said, with a memory of those times, of ours - only one memory in this regard, on two terms, when the majority of Parliament has passed legislation, would say the right to non-information. The first such particular problem or fact was when the ruling coalition prevented Parliament from getting acquainted with the TAM-A rehabilitation programme, at the same time requiring billions. And the Members of that program have never seen it. I hope that today will be a different day and that, in accordance with constitutional law, we will, with our Rules of Procedure and with what else, but we will finally find out how much each citizen of this country is already burdened with an internal or public debt. So if today happens that we should not be informed, it will be another part of the Christmas package this year. That's it. Of course, I will support this proposal, and I hope that most will also support it. It is difficult for us to decide if we do not have basic data on public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u122	Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I would like to propose or assist in the proposal for a decision by Dr. Bayuk. No matter the clientele. To avoid the sometimes over-expressed practice of being one 'against' because the others are 'yes', I suggest to my colleagues and colleagues that the actual proposal for a decision made by Dr. Bayuk be taken together. It certainly can't hurt, but it can do a lot of good. I'll back this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on the proposed conclusions. We will vote on each decision separately because there are two. So, first of all, we vote on the decision under order number one. Let's vote, please! Of the 60 present, 29 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 21 Members and Members against them. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are voting on another additional decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 57 present, 31 members and Members voted against 21. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. It's a day's work. I thank the representative of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u125	President, please! Now he's doing his credit card. There were no cards in two votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u126	I'm so sorry. We've moved on to point 26. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] I don't see any reason to apologize. [[...]] If you want a word, raise your hand. Procedural, or in any other way? If not, then we shall proceed with the sitting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u127	Mr. Chairman! I actually kept my hand up all the time because I wasn't in the previous vote, and now, I was working on a card. When I put it back in the slot a few times. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] All right, colleagues, thank you for shutting me down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u128	Excuse me. Firstly, I have very clearly announced the vote on the first decision and the vote on the second decision. During the first and second conclusions, no one raised his hand, which we sitting here asked the deputy's lord how he was doing: no one noticed. After the second vote, you raised your hand and found that your voting device was not working. Is that right? Now he's working?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u129	That's right. Now he's working, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u130	Does that mean that she did not work in a specific vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u131	I don't think it's the first time in Parliament that the card didn't work. This happened to President Pahor just recently. In fact, colleagues sitting next to me saw that the signal light was not burning, even though I was trying to vote. When I got the word, my colleague Jerič re-inserted the card, and that was the first time the light was on fire.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u132	We will suspend the work of the National Assembly for five minutes, so that we can find out what was going on in the technical service, and then we will continue to decide on the matter. So it's said, in five minutes, that's -- let's say, because of the round numbers, five in three. Can you please, if you want us to test this, then please, if you can leave the hall for a short time so that the technical services can easily verify the operation. Don't mind this request, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u133	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first inform you that we have already been to point 26 and that there is therefore no argument to go back. But we found out in this break because then we'll have cases like this when the voting device doesn't work as much as you want. And I'm not going to agree to this, of course, as much as I can influence it. But when it comes to mistakes that are possible, here, of course, I must say that they must be taken into account. So we have now found that in one place the voting device acted completely wrong. Although not in Mr Ašić's place, it turned out that the device works, but in one completely different place. And given that there is suspicion or at least doubt that there is something wrong with the voting devices, I ask you to conduct the next test first. So let's report our presence by pressing on the "quorum", wait a few minutes to prepare a statement and see if all of these sitting devices work, and then repeat the vote on both proposed conclusions. This is - unfortunately - the only path that is clear, given that the actual device in two places did not work. So first, we'll determine the presence. Please, don't be mistaken, the "quorum" will have to be pressed. Testing device, quorum. It's not helping. There's still someone in favor. Okay, now let's wait five minutes while we give the floor to Mr. Peterlet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u134	Yes, Mr President, I propose that we do this in such a way that we also believe this matter. It's probably not just one key, or this one. I don't know. I suppose it could be, say, a problem with "yes" or "against". And since it's about computer stuff, you can control this software, as you say, and it just happens to happen to one voice somewhere else, just like you did. And this thing has to, I mean, if you've just found out that there was a mistake somewhere else, I have a lot to worry about how this machine works. Because everyone doesn't control what they are. Then I have a procedural proposal. Since it had already happened several times that when someone subsequently identified or reported that his part of the apparatus had not worked properly or that he had made a mistake, then the result had changed considerably because ten others had been wrong in the next round, but no one had reported that it had turned; in short, many times there had been a different result of the vote. I therefore suggest that when anyone else has such problems, he should vote again and others who have voted correctly should rest. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thanks for the heads-up. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of technical expertise, I find that the voting apparatus works and we will not repeat the vote. 26. The point of the day is love and naming. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, namely: 1. amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers with regard to the purchase and sale of electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage in the system of Slovenian electricity; 2. the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions; 3. amending the decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions; and 4. amending the Decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. We are moving on to the consideration of individual proposals. First of all, the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the responsibility of the responsible persons and holders of public powers to purchase and sell electricity, which allegedly caused economic damage in the system of Slovenian electricity. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] There are no written reports. I ask again, does anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss the proposal for a decision, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for that Decision. Please be careful. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 votes in favour of 44 Members and Members, 2 were against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are in the next decision, this is the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? There's no report. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports. Anybody want a word? [[Not at all.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The following is a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I invite Members of Parliament and Members to the floor. [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the motion for a decree. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 45 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The decree has been adopted. One last suggestion. This is a proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Messengers and Members, who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the motion for a decree. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and this point has also been concluded. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COMPOSITION FOR THE PAYMENT OF VICTIMS OF WAR AND WAR VIOLENCE - STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm moving on to the first hearing and asking the government representative if he wants a word. Please, Mrs. Kamnareva, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to say a few opening lines. In fact, the proposal for a law submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly is more about technical amendments to the law than about substantive amendments. The fact is that the original law has set up a budget fund in a way that goes beyond the provisions of the Public Finance Act and we are now correcting this error. In fact, we are abolishing the budget fund, transferring payment obligations under this law - even in the part concerning cash payments - to the Slovenian Compensation Society and increasing its assets to this end. This is the whole content of these changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. He would like the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. But who would be the rapporteur for this? The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Pucko, is not in the room. Yes, it is. Would you like a word, Mr. Pucko? [[You don't want to.]] Okay, thanks. Would you like a representative of the secretariat for legislation? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the wake of this novel law on a fund for compensation for victims of war and postwar violence, we are being taken over by certain mixed feelings, is it not somehow the beginning that beneficiaries of compensation will never come or at least not in the amounts prescribed by the law? Because this novelty somehow relativizes and, of course, reduces the obligation or is no longer so closely linked to the State's obligation to pay these liabilities, both the cash part of the compensation and, of course, the part of the compensation in the bonds. Look, I personally proposed, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, an amendment to the bill to the fund, which would ensure timely payment, at least the first, of the cash part of the compensation. At that time, the government told me that it was unnecessary for these novelties to be unnecessary, since most beneficiaries will receive compensation decisions by 30.11.2001 and will practically be awarded to the debtors this year. According to my information, no decision has yet been served and issued to the beneficiaries, which means that the government's earlier forecasts of seriousness and the monitoring of dynamics have been paid out - to comply with the law. This was also answered by the Minister of Economy to an explicit question sent to me a month ago. Nothing happened. Therefore, this novelty raises doubts and doubts that the beneficiaries will fully see this compensation with the prescribed dynamics. Otherwise, the government argues and argues that compensation will be paid within the envisaged deadlines, that this does not affect, that this is simply some manoeuvre that somehow facilitates or allows payment on the other hand and otherwise. Personally, I am increasingly doubting this because the government has already left me twice as a member of the National Assembly. For the first time, at the time of the amendment of the law, she made it clear to me that the beneficiaries would receive decisions in most cases up to 30.11. That didn't happen. I also received an answer to the question sent a month ago, which turned out to be unrealistic. Unfortunately, this gives rise to a lack of confidence. And, of course, I do not know how these many beneficiaries, who are mainly older generations, will accept that they will not receive compensation in the second half of January, as the government has stated. For now it is almost virtually impossible, because decisions must become legal, they must be served, and only this is the basis for payment. I doubt that it is possible to do so within the time limits set by the law and announced by the government. In short, in the Social Democratic Party we will support the law, but here and here we are obliged to point out that we are being overtaken by doubts, increasingly doubting that the government is seriously thinking with predictions of paying compensation. In short, I hope and once again I appeal to the representative of the Ministry to make it clear to me that this speaker has been confirmed and stated that this amendment will not affect the dynamics of compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else in this group who wants a word? [[No one else.]] Then we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are no written applications, so I will limit all further discussions to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Horvath. Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I agree with what Mrs State Secretary said in the introduction, and I also understand the law as a technical law. I have no doubt that the intention of the government is not to seriously ensure compliance with this amendment of the law. However, I would ask the question for the following reasons. In fact, if we look at the introductory explanation of the law, point 3, which refers to the financial consequences arising from the fact that, of course, we have to bear the responsibility of both Members and Members, the National Assembly as legislator, and of course the Government as a proponent and then the lawmaker, we have a responsibility for both salaries. On the one hand, to ensure the exercise of rights under this law and, of course, also under other laws, and of course, the responsibility to provide funds to ensure that these rights can also be exercised by law. And here we see already, in this explanation, the financial consequences that it will actually have to provide additional funds in 2002 2.4 billion and in 2003 8.3 billion and almost 8 billion 270 million. By transferring the enforcement of these obligations to the Slovenian Compensation Society, however, the question arises, or I ask, what will be the total scope of the obligation of the Slovenian Compensation Society, because we know that, in addition to these obligations that we are now making to this company, that there are fairly high obligations on the SOD, in particular on the basis of denationalisation. And I ask whether the correct information that has been heard in the last period is a fairly large gap between obligations and available assets or available assets, which will then be the basis for the enforcement of obligations. Even the number is said to be about 140 billion tolars, or about 400 billion tolls. So I'm asking or checking to see if this data is at least about right. And if they are, I ask the government whether it has or is preparing a projection and how it will ensure that the commitments are actually implemented in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I myself have two issues to do with this law, particularly with regard to payment. I will not oppose the adoption of this law on my own. The parties who come to my office have obtained conclusions either on the status of the victim of war or post-war violence and on the right to compensation; of course, there are no decisions yet. I gave them information that they could expect in December or by the end of November or at least in December. Apparently, I was deceiving them because I kept the promises made by the Minister and the Secretary of State or the Undersecretary because he mentioned that this was a very simple computer job. Therefore, in my opinion, it would be okay for the Ministry, given that it has made some promises, to tell the public when these people can expect decisions or will receive them at all. The second question is, what is the value of the funds raised in the account, that is, 6 billion, of the purchases paid by the Slovenian Development Society, what these funds have been used for so far, since the State has not provided for the payments made under this Title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. Anyone else want a word, please? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In two or three words, I would just like to address the proposal of this law. Indeed, given what has already been said, I would only ask if no decision has really been made on what has been agreed and promised so many times. So, I'm interested in this information, and I'd like to ask you to just give it -- or when will these decisions actually be issued, and when will this first round be paid, if I make it simpler. In general, I would like to say that I have the feeling that, in all of this, in the adoption of the previous law and even now, in my opinion, some false promises have been made by the LDS, and perhaps by the United Nations, which have so endeavoured to make them legal. So the question is now, if these promises continue indefinitely; it is likely that even people, or especially those beneficiaries, will be, that the Society of Banishers of Slovenia and those most interested in getting these things will probably continue to agree to these long-term promises. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. In fact, it follows from the draft law that it is only a formal procedure to formalise the procedure set out in the legislative text, where we have determined that these payments are made through the budget fund and that this is transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society. But as has been said many times today, my colleague Horvat has warned of this. Indeed, there is a real fear between the level of obligations that will burden the Slovenian Compensation Society and the real possibility of payment, not only under this law, but also under the law on denationalisation. The question is justifiably raised whether the resources will be insufficient to which they will be allocated, who will have the advantage, or how the Slovenian compensation company will respond at a time when it cannot, in turn, settle its obligations. We have already had one such law in the debate today, where we have seen where the country has brought such decisions. In fact, it would be very important for Members to have a comprehensive picture of what all the obligations currently owed in the near future are, in the near future, the Slovenian Compensation Society, and what will also be the plan to cover these obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. In my debate, I would like to draw attention to another point, namely, that this is not a technical law, that does not interfere with the hands, that does not interfere with any direct dynamics, but indirectly significantly affects my assessment, because from the budget fund it bears the responsibility to pay the shareholding company. A share company is a share company: it has a profit, it has a loss. However, it is clear in this respect that the compensation and payment of damages and, of course, the maturity of bonds and everything, is clearly specified; what if this company is not able to manage and operate this property and, of course, if it does not have the desired financial effects so that it can, of course, be able to pay it. I do not see the fuse, and therefore I would like to explain to the representatives of the government to explain to us where the protections are or where the fuses are, that in the event of their incapacity, the Slovenian compensation company will be able to draw, of course, the budget funds for payment. This is very important because if there is no guarantee, it means that there will be no compensation for the dynamics, because there will be no money. This could happen, this is a stock company, I emphasize. So I would like to answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? [[No one else.]] We can ask for answers. Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Perhaps, first of all, with regard to the reliability or effect of this amendment to the law, that cash payments will be made when they are provided for the first time on 15 January 2002 and the second instalment in 2003, exactly after one year of payment of the first meal. Thus, the amendment of the law does not have any effect on this provision. It still applies, as stated in the law, to the time limits for cash payments to be made. As regards the funds that have so far flowed into the state budget, which are intended or will be intended to compensate victims of war and post-war violence and have come from the privatisation law. By this time, some over 6 billion tolars had been raised in the state budget. And the funds, as also written in the amendment of the law, will be fully transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society as part of the money from which the first cash payment will be made. In order to enable the Slovenian Compensation Company to make cash payments in the total amount required, which is foreseen at $8.5 billion in 2002 and 8 billion in 2003, the Slovenian Compensation Company is expected to be recapitalised, which is also due to the new law, with the assets to be obtained from the Slovenian Development Company. An asset worth over 10 billion tolars should be used to cover the cash obligations arising under this law. As regards decisions issued following the provision of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, the issue of decisions shall take place. At this point, however, the decision-making process has not yet been fully completed. However, we expect this to be completed in the first month of next year, when, in fact, the deadline for the first cash payment also comes to an end. At the same time, it is provided by law for the State to issue a bond on 1 January 2002 for payment of the second part of the compensation, i.e. that part of the compensation, which will not be paid in cash, but in bonds. The Ministry of Finance has already issued a bond issue regulation so that the bonds will actually be issued at the beginning of next year at a total of 30 billion tolars. The bonds are expected to be paid from year to year, so they will be paid from 2004 to 2008. They will be interestd at TOM and 1% interest rates. However, interest on the payment of these bonds is already included in the 2002 budget and 2003 budget as a whole, as far as the envisaged commitments under this heading are concerned. For 2002, 0.7 billion tolars, you could see this at the budget we accepted and for 2003 1.9 billion tolars. So this financial structure, of course, is so predictable, I can say it's closed. However, in doing so, I must say or give an even more complex answer, because this is not the only obligation the Slovenian Compensation Society has. The Slovenian compensation company has obligations under three laws. So under this law, which is the subject of today's treatment, the total obligation is 43 billion tolars, something over, plus interest, of course, arising from bonds. Under the Denationalisation Act, bonds are currently issued at around 550 billion, a pardon of millions of German brands. These bonds shall also be paid for a longer period of time. Moreover, what are the denationalisation compensation obligations, or the denationalisation law, at the moment, we cannot respond. All procedures have not yet been completed. Of the 36,000 cases dealt with, 24,000 have already been completed. The number of decisions issued in this regard is appropriate. And the number of bonds served is also appropriate. Of course, as can be seen, 12 thousand matters remain in the process of being resolved. And what their value will be, but at this point we cannot answer you, neither from the Slovenian Compensation Society nor from the government. Of course, there is still a third law which confers liability or obligation on the Slovenian Compensation Society, which is the law on the issue of liability bonds for the payment of damages for the seized property due to the abolition of the fine adopted in 1999. A bond of 20 billion dollars has already been issued out of this law. Bonds will be paid or paid within 15 years, from 2001 to 2015. Thus, only on the basis of bonds, without these cash payments, which are the subject of this Act, has already been issued by the Slovenian Compensation Society, approximately 110 billion tolar bonds. I'm saying roughly, because I've just translated it into tolaras, because there are some bonds issued with a foreign exchange clause and it's just a course thing. Commitments are extremely large. I think that the government has, in fact, pointed out these enormous obligations under each of the laws that we have dealt with in Parliament. Therefore, in addition to the fact that the principals’ repayment of bonds is directly due, there are, of course, still the corresponding interest that will have to be serviced. At this point in time, I can't provide you with this information in total, because it is also not known whether all these bonds will also be served. Only the bonds are issued at those thresholds as defined by the individual law. The property of the Slovenian Compensation Company, the book value of the property at this time is 120 billion tolars. In addition, this recapitalisation, which will follow the amendment of the law before you, will provide the Slovenian Compensation Company with some more than 10 billion assets. But we are talking about book value, of course, which can be a far different number from what will actually mean market value when individual parts of the assets are sold on the market and the assets will be sold so that they can service the obligations arising from individual laws and issued bonds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Rokavac for a moment. I understand his concern about payments, the size of payments. I share that concern myself. However, when referring to denationalisation, it is appropriate to be a little more careful in this concept or in this action. If the state behaved more consistently and returned in nature, i.e. to the injured, and did not opt for compensation and bonds, the matter would also be easier for the State, for the State budget. In fact, when the state does not restore these things to nature, they remain in its possession. But we know what it's like to operate state-owned infrastructures. As a rule, this does not bring any additional value but results in running costs. And in some other things, the government could have done something a little differently to avoid these burdens. However, I say so too, but we must be concerned with at least a small proportion of the compensation being provided - so we must stick to it. The result of this Slovenian Compensation Society and the establishment and work there also means certain additional costs and a couple of key places where the ruling set will place its people and, of course, the costs will. It is also a question of how this fund will work and how it will deal with any financial difficulties. However, if the state is as hasty as it has been so far, it is likely to be clouded by another month, or it may not be a year if it is as hasty as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. There won't be so many replicas, maybe more explanation. I have expressed my doubts or concerns, above all, that the state should have an open attitude towards citizens and also an attitude. While we are already facing a real higher assessment of the obligations to be incurred by the Slovenian Compensation Company from possible inflows, the question arises to me whether and in what way the Slovenian Compensation Company will fulfil its obligations under the law on denationalisation as provided for in the law on compensation for war damage. And here I wonder whether, at the very least, it will be an equivalent approach to the implementation of the obligation, and this is an essential issue, and secondly - I agree with my colleague Drobník - if the country decided to return more requests under the denationalisation law in nature, which would also be possible, this would clearly be cheaper for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u156	More Comment on Government Implementation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u157	There are no comments. They're just replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u158	All right, here's the replica. Look, I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State, who said the case was closed financially, which means that he has some kind of financial structure that would be feasible if I understood correctly. Then it was accompanied by a number of Cha-jis. For the Slovenian Indemnity Society will recapitalise and if the case is sold at all book value, because only 10 billion book value has been transferred and the market value can be purely elsewhere, of course significantly lower [[In the case of sales, prices are usually lower, even when companies of the Slovenian Development Company are sold]] , and this gives rise to great uncertainty and doubt in the government's announcement. However, it is true that this will not violate the law, that is the fact that we have also warned about this when we adopt the law on a payment fund, because the law says, "they will pay after 15.1.2002", and this can also be 15.1.2015, and there is no violation of the law. I think that this amendment introduces a significantly greater uncertainty in the payment of compensation, and I would particularly like to point out here, and I would like to reiterate the position of the Government, whether it thinks I am right or wrong. This is said to be true whether uncertainty is greater or whether it is really just a technical law as foretold; for if uncertainty is greater, it is no longer a technical law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u159	Excuse me, Mr. Visac. Do you think it's necessary to explicitly explain what this means after 15, I don't know what you're talking about? Because you've asked very broad questions now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u160	Yeah. I specifically asked the representative of the government whether this law would give rise to greater uncertainty in the payment of matters. This, of course, has to do with the hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you. Can I have an answer, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. So the answer is no. This amendment does not create greater uncertainty as to the payment of obligations under this law. If you don't mind my explaining. The first payment was to be made 30 days after the decision was issued, but not earlier than 15.1. 2002. As I have already explained, we expect that decisions will be issued at the beginning of next year and will also be paid actually at the beginning of next year, I am talking about cash payments, it will take place. With regard to the provision of funds for cash payments, I think that fear is totally unjustified because at the moment the Slovenian Compensation Company has sufficient assets to ensure payment of all liabilities, both in 2002 and in 2003. According to our estimates, even in the coming years, at least until 2006, with the existing volume of assets, there will be no major complications with the payment of liabilities under the bonds issued. When and to what extent the curves will occur, it depends on the extent of the obligations that the Slovenian compensation company will have, in particular, under the first and third laws. So, according to the denationalisation law, where we don't really know what extent this is. However, I must add that the government has adopted a policy to bring as much property back in nature as possible, even to avoid any difficulties in providing funds to pay off bonds. And of course, a stranger is also a law on the issue of bonds for damages for confiscated property. We don't know or know the whole obligation at this point. If the Slovenian Compensation Society is not able to provide for obligations under the applicable laws - I must say that this is an obligation which is also compulsive and cannot be ignored by the State - then the State will have to provide the Slovenian Compensation Society with additional assets, or take over the obligation to pay from the State budget, because as a guarantor it is also behind all these bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No one else. Then I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the law. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote please. It's a procedural decision. Looks like there's not enough of us in the gym. Colleagues and colleagues, please, those of you who are near the hall to join us. 52 of us should be. So we repeat the vote - another time. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 42 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence - a rapid procedure. 19.12. - there's only one material. Let's do it in a row. Here first is the new paragraph 2.a, one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, and before we vote, I remind you that this amendment is substantively linked to amendments 6.a, 7 and 7.a. So we are moving on to the vote on the amendment for the new Article 2.a. Let's vote. Of the 46 Members present, 42 voted in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] So this amendment has been adopted. Since it is related to the previously quoted articles, we are going to these new articles. On the other hand, we have a new article 6.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The new Article 6a is adopted. Article 7 is also linked to this. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will vote on the article later because we still have one more amendment to do so. So here we have the 7th A. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote of the amendment to Article 7a. Let's vote. Of the 47 present, 42 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 7a has been adopted. And now we're going back to the front page, this is the amendment to Article 3. I am opening a debate on this amendment and Article 3 of course. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendment to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Let us vote on Article 3 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 50 present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Article 3 is adopted. Article 6(6) An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 6. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Let us vote on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. Let us vote on Article 7 in its entirety, because nothing has been tabled at this time, it is said, that we can now vote on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the remaining articles. Let's vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 52 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments were adopted to the proposal for a second reading, namely Articles 2.a, 3, 6.a, 7 and 7.a. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to coordination. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present there were 51 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their presence. We're at 8. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, Quick procedure. I welcome the Secretary of State. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to the first hearing and asking the government representative whether he wants a word. Short, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Since this is a criminal procedure law, only a brief introductory explanation of what is in the material. The effectiveness of the criminal procedure and the appropriateness of our law have been open all the time since its adoption in the debate in the professional circles and also in the case of judicial backlogs, although it has to be said that judicial backlogs in the field of criminal law are far from as long and as long as they are in the field of civil law. The Ministry of Justice has set up a special working group which is preparing new systemic changes to the law on criminal procedure, with the participation of representatives of the legal profession, judges, prosecutors, police representatives, and this project, as the parent committee has also pointed out, is a project that is long-term and requires careful and thorough preparation. What you have ahead of you today, however, are minor changes to the Criminal Procedure Act, which aims at certain points where it is possible to improve the effectiveness of the system or where procedural rights need to be further protected, we propose those changes which dictate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Very briefly, I'll be in the style of a government representative. The Committee considered this bill at its 14th meeting, supporting the solutions proposed by the Government or the Ministry. The point is that the proposed changes are without prejudice to the system regime. Certain concerns were raised by members of the committee that these novels were too numerous and that all these concerns, solutions, proposals should be collected in one place and that in the future the government would prepare a more complex amendment to this law. It was further expressed astonishment and regret that representatives of the judiciary did not participate in the meeting of the committee. The Committee, however, supported the six amendments that were drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. It also proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed amendments be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the secretariat for legislation? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mrs. Zupanova, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! A rapid procedure is proposed for the proposal of a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure due to the emergency needs of the State. The fact is that the date 23.1.2002 is the one for which it is necessary to hurry so quickly. Until that date, material and organisational conditions should be provided for recording the main proceedings on criminal matters. Certain simulations have been carried out in this direction, but technical experts have found that the devices used for this purpose are only conditionally appropriate. In this regard, neither the staffing and spatial conditions have been met and appropriate training not carried out, even though the budgetary resources have been provided and additional funding has been provided by 2002. Members had already adopted provisions in the Sound Monitoring Act in 1998 and had set a deadline of 18 months for implementation, but nothing had happened in that direction. In 2000, the same law was re-examined before Members, with the amendment that the deadline should be extended from 18 months to 36 months. And this final deadline is due to expire on the jumbo date 23.1.2002. For the third time, the applicant has come before the Members with the same excuses. Now it is perfectly clear to him that the project cannot be implemented. Even more. It now proposes that, with the introduction of mandatory recording of the main proceedings on criminal matters, there is no sense to rush, so it proposes deleting the provisions in this regard and reintroduces the possibility that the President of the Senate may order a sound or visual recording that has already been in force before 1998. We hope that the applicant will be able to provide us with information on which courts have already been filmed and how many times. We are convinced that such cases are only for a sample or not at all. The adoption of law by fast procedure has become a constant in our Parliament. The government waits until the last minute and then puts pressure on Members and apologizes for the extraordinary situation. I must say that the incredible ease of conduct, which is far too obvious, the proposals are poorly prepared, the proponents do not feel exactly special responsibility, they are proposing something that they currently feel is necessary and useful if we change and correct others, and Members of the ruling coalition make decisions almost without words and questions in a row. However, we are confident that this will not last indefinitely. Today's meeting points to this, and sooner or later they will have to demand more responsible behaviour from their government representatives. How, though, can we trust such a government? In the case of a proposal that we have before us, the proposer has proposed amendments for the third time in three years. It was clear earlier that justice was unwilling to implement the project, so the deadlines were postponed and the project was even withdrawn. I don't know how many times the rapid procedure has proved inappropriate. In this case, they want to eliminate unconstitutionality, but the real system regulation is still waiting. In a modern democratic society, which we stand for, we cannot so headlessly embark on projects for which there is soon to be no will and power, and on the other hand we cannot be a convenient means of covering. It is true that the proposal also contains some amendments and additions that seek to improve the criminal procedure and are justified and worthy of support, but are only a milestone for a substantial change. We ask why there was no will and power, the funds were ensured that the project would be carried out, because it would nevertheless represent some progress in the technological sense and in the sense of striving for a more objective and faster procedure in the courts. I would mention a better starting point for the introduction of audiovisual recording, which some are impressed with, as they find that modern arrangements are in place. Couldn't they have found out in 1998? And we are further asking what funds have been spent on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Come on, who wants another word? [[No one else.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports. This will limit the debate of the other Members to 5 minutes. Who wants a word? Yes, please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. See, our courts are indeed the subject of constant criticism, particularly in the public eye, and are controversial with the fact that this judicial function is actually performed in the courts. There's been a lot of talk about these setbacks, a lot of people complaining about the work of the courts. And now that these courts are supposed to make some progress in their quality of work and offer that sort of European standard, when we talk about the European Union, the government will find some kind of Solomonic solution and simply say, "Take the law quickly." What some law has already established, we will now correct, but we will not record in the courts. Recently, I was alone as a defendant in a court of law in one full court, but I am such an appraiser, a miserable case, I have not yet obtained a decision, but the only thing I wanted in court at the time would be to record what was going on there. However, I was told that the technical possibilities did not provide this. So the court doesn't have one tape recorder, it doesn't have any tapes to record the debate with. And over and over again, the debate was somehow brought to me by those responsible there, and, exactly, the debate was conducted in a completely different direction from the actual reality. And I'm sure that's what happens in our courts day in and day out. And since you don't want such things to start being slowly discovered and revealed, you just made it up and you're going to say, "We're not going to record it; that's what's said, what's already been brought in is now due to technical incompetence -- as you call it -- we're going to end it. Last night, I attended a general assembly of locals. The audience there recorded the debate on television and on tape. Our courts, after all this - even it has been said that the funds in the budget have been provided - cannot afford to record the discussions and those recordings for a certain period of time of archival storage. I, as a Member of Parliament and as a citizen of this country, understand this matter in this direction, that you simply do not want it, do not want it; because many times it would have been shown that people in court are not given justice, but I am actually a work of injustice. So distinguished representatives of the government, personally for such a correction of the law I cannot vote on, and this is not a step forward in our democracy, but an essential step back in the quest for more rights, for more freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz. Will that be a replica, Mr. Lavrinc?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u172	Yeah, it's gonna be a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u174	I'm a little out of breath because I was running, and I'm gonna try and be as calm as I can! Mr. Sok, you have no idea. I'm sorry, but you have no idea. You haven't read this law, not the law we passed before. And now you're talking in thoughts and nonsense. I'm sorry, but that's true. It is simply that the judicial authorities at that time put in some future a date for sound recordings of hearings. And themselves, gentlemen of the judges, have thought this way to make it much easier, then they will write everything they need - not to delay. But it turned out to be impossible. For the typewriters that write, even our record, often know not what is spoken. We speak poorly, we do not speak well Slovenian, let us not introduce ourselves to anyone who speaks. And so on. And all these problems, of course, culminated in the fact that the judges simply found that this was nonsense, what they proposed. Therefore, an audiovisual approach will only allow for what the judges actually want. And that's for the camera to record who's talking about knowing what he said and so on. That's the first one. And here it is, I'll say, some time pressure. That's why this law is needed now and immediately. And no one said it was one of them who gave it up. Nobody! You're talking to me. Nobody! On the contrary! There has been much discussion, including that this kind of patching of laws is not a good job and that our experience has now taught us not to sit on government or anyone else who actually brings us some changes in laws. For example, the entire law on criminal procedure was in one of the essential points here, in this Chamber, otherwise otherwise designed, changed because at that time most thought that they were doing no good. We had previously the principle of finding material truth, as number 1 in the entire criminal procedure. This is where we did it differently. Of course, but we didn't do all the other things. And that is why all of us who have discussed, but indeed all, and the opposition and position and so on, even the government representative has agreed with this, agreed that an analysis should be made first, then the experts should sit down and prepare some new law on criminal procedure, which will also be "drinking water" to the most modern criminal code or procedure in Europe. And here, what's going on right now, is just a little bit of a return adjustment, you know, about what's going to be recorded and what's not, because it's not possible. And they don't even have qualified halls, and that's on top of that. So -- I'll say -- I don't understand this kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u175	Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u176	I took note of Mr Lavrinc's word that I have no idea and that I don't know what I'm talking about. So, of course, Mr Lavrinc thinks that with one spoon he has captured all the knowledge of this world and put it in his mouth. This is also his legitimate right. But he denied himself when he said that they had previously adopted a law that they didn't think would bring it to him. But, of course, all of this is a date. The date on which this recording is to begin and, since this condition has not been met by that date, it is now necessary to change the date so that this recording is not provided for or that the judge himself decides when it is appropriate or when not. As far as teaching is concerned, there's a record in court. I can tell you that, as president of the municipal council, I have been in court several times, and I have seen what kind of typist wrote a record of how the client must present himself in court, how to stand still, dictate data and so on. This, without worrying that I know, maybe as a member of the LDS you didn't ever have to go to court, I would believe that you don't, and you probably don't know how it goes there, but the others, and ordinary citizens often experience what they do on their skin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u178	Since I was not criminalized or treated for criminal acts, I did not have to go to court, not because I am an LDS Member. This, I think, has been going on in this country for quite some time. That's the first one. Secondly, the courts proposed recording, sound recording, or the judicial branch of power to say so. And because she was ashamed that they had stumbled into some proposal, they were not present at the committee's own meeting. That's a fact. The fact is also that the technique goes forward and offers a better option, and this is audiovisual surveillance, which means that the machiner will see whether the defendant or the accused is speaking here now in this case, whether the advocate speaks or another advocate speaks, or the judge speaks, and so on. That's what this is about. That's the first one. And secondly, Mr Jerovšek has taught us today that they also speak harder in the Austrian Parliament, so I will say, 'but the shoes belong to the hooves', as Prešeren sang.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina also took part in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would also like to give my own opinion on the proposal of this law. In fact, I personally doubt that the government may have made a move with this law that is incapable of then realizing and so forth, and that the courts have learned something else now and that there is no money and that I do not know what all the reasons behind it are. Perhaps this is all true, even though I almost don't believe in all these scenarios that someone is preparing, I just don't believe and it's a question of what's in the background. Here I am asked a question - Mr Lavrinc, because it is right to defend this profession, perfectly correct, it is also his profession and he has the right and also the duty to almost defend it - but here I would still ask myself why we haven't done it three years ago, or, I don't know, far back to update these things. In fact, it seems to me that these parliamentary magnetograms, although they are not the best, but they are not so bad - it is known exactly when someone is speaking, especially if someone is conducting a proper session and calls everyone by name and so on, that they know exactly who is speaking, but nothing needs to be recorded visually. That doesn't seem so important to me. However, it is very important and appropriate that, in addition to all of this work being carried out by the courts now in the proceedings, a party may then at the end, in addition to the summary ordered by the judge, that this be carried out in a prompt manner, the procedure and so on, and then the administrator will write down and then the party will sign that it may nevertheless be given a copy of the magnetogram for the authenticity of its statements. However, I could always then compare what was written on the record with what the customer actually said, although perhaps sometimes, as Mr Lavrinc says, we do not know correctly Slovenian, let go of words, letters etc., but some evidence would only be. That's why I'm saying it. I'm saying because I don't have a lot of experience with the courts, I haven't had any, I've never been in court, except for the last year I've been a witness there for some things, it's completely irrelevant, and then I saw, let's say, when I had a lot of arguments to the judge, and then he took it and ordered it to the administrator, the engineer, and I know that I had some things to fix then, I said, "No, I didn't mean that, I didn't say that, I wanted to say that, and so on. "and I had to actually fix these things. Especially if I said any more professional words that I know, whether they didn't know them or whatever, things just weren't written down like I said there myself. So one of these things is definitely -- and it's totally well-intentioned, I don't mean here now, I kind of still have confidence in the courts, even though I know that many times you can judge someone even after an innocent person for whatever you want, because that's not a problem, that's a fact. But yet another trust must be placed in these organs, so that, in fact, if there were to be a dispute: "I didn't mean it, but I didn't say it that way," that a magnetogram might sometimes be an attachment to all these records and to these documents could be a credible charter, what was actually said if there was a subsequent dispute. Now, how much abuse is in here, etc. - I would not put myself into this, but a well-intentioned suggestion that this should be introduced as soon as possible, that these procedures should be made as credible as possible and that there might be even less doubt as to the fairness of the courts if this doubt existed. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Mr. Puksich? Here you go, then you have the upper hand, then Mr. Lavrinz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u182	I'd like to replicate to Mr. Lavrinc in the part where he was talking about the shoe being only a hoof. I am afraid that the hooves changed legislation in 1994 - the penal code, the law on criminal proceedings, because only under this condition was it possible that Judge Šubic did not write the judgment for nine months.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u183	Mr. Lavrinz, please. I ask you, Your Honor, to base yourselves on the proposal of the law before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u184	Don't worry, Vice President, I won't replicate Mr. Puksich. It's not worth it. It's really not worth it. I would say, however, that I would like to support Mr Kelemino in his thinking that it is precisely because of this that these things are supposed to be arranged this way, and because in some courts there is already the possibility of recording. And where more difficult procedures are involved, the judge may still allow it - or not allow it - to decide in fact. That is why we now have for this interim time to say this, this possibility, when I also agree with the criticism that has not otherwise been directly expressed, but so, in the undertone, it has been heard that whoever is conducting the meeting could, in fact, indicate to anyone by name that those who are writing, then these things, to know it. [[...]] I guess that's what they're doing, but not everyone. And then what does such a thing have value? Then such a thing has no value, of course. There's something else. Look, in some criminal procedure, it's not like there's a village committee or a committee under the lipo gathering and talking: for example, one conspiratory group "either we dump this mayor or we won't." But here it is a process that is public, where there is a public presence, there is an advocate, there is a prosecutor - even if there are few, so to speak, there can be more advocates - there is a judge or even a Senate and so on. In short, it's just one auditorium that can, after all, monitor very closely everything, the whole process. I doubt that's why there's been any problems in our criminal court. Maybe he's coming for other things, but I wouldn't discuss it. If you don't know the matter, then you can't know how we've adopted legislation to change the organisation of the courts. We didn't have a happy hand. We've also adopted legislation. Exactly, this law of criminal procedure was passed by me and my professor out there talking to him and asking him how he could make such a quick decision. And he said, "This is politics, not a lawyer." And so on. I'm sorry. These are the facts. I must say, we didn't have very happy hands on these things. However, I am sure that the current leadership of the Ministry of Justice has taken the right step because it has ordered all the professions - regardless of the colours and various political provenances - has ordered that they prepare some analysis first and then we will slowly, from the article, to the article here can be "trafficked" whether it is good or not. First, the concept is good and so on. That's what I think this road is. Of course, it's longer. However, I hope that we can get this under the roof in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u186	Actually, it's not like a replica. Mr. Lavrinc would like to thank you for this very thorough lecture. He seems to know himself very well at the work of the courts. I don't know how many years he worked in court. I also agree with the fact that it is still true that only the shoes should belong to the hooves. However, I did not discuss here the kind of matter that he then actually argued and somehow encouraged us not to understand each other. In fact, they don't. But I warned you, the easiest thing to do is to change the law for certain reasons. That's what we do after the running tape. That's what we did at the last point. I didn't want to hear from you. But if we can't do it, then we can change the law. And this has become the practice of this Parliament, which is certainly not good. But of course it is because most laws are passed as follows: quickly, "ad hoc"; let's give, if possible without discussion, with our hand up, down, it's accepted. That is why such and similar solutions come about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u188	This will be more of a notification to the gentleman. I didn't work in court for years, I enrolled in college in 1967, but I graduated in 1982, which means that for a long time I strengthened the substance, I was not a very good student. So much to make it easier, but I do hope to say that these things that we have today in the discussion, I know a lot better than a lot of people who have just spoken needlessly here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. There are only a few things that bother me about this proposal. I totally understand that years ago, they kind of bumped into each other about sound recordings. I believe that this may not be as easy in court to melt the sound recording into a credible document as, say, a magnetogram of the National Assembly or some other meeting. However, budgetary resources were provided for this. Further, even in the extension - due to the complexity of the work, there has been an extension, where additional appropriations have also been provided. My first question is this: nowhere is it clear that the use of these already provided budgetary resources for the continuation of this project in the audiovisual system is intended. Furthermore, the second issue which bothers me is that the applicant himself states that he will proceed with the project only if, on the basis of needs, the instructions on the minutes in the main proceedings - in criminal matters - are amended. However, the guidance was adopted, as I can see, from a material under Article 82 of the Criminal Procedure Act. This Article will, on the basis of Article 25 of the proposal, become, will be repealed, will cease to apply; that is, that guidance will, in some way, be headed. And if the proponent predicted that he would continue with this project, why is there no way of defining these things here, to allow them to really continue? Because I don't think it's bad intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Procedural proposal, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u192	I thought that the government representative would answer the questions that our fellow Member had asked on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u193	I'm sorry, there was no sign at the time I asked. I think that we will be able to answer the questions that are open with individual amendments. If you allow, we would now vote on the proposed decision to vote together on the other non-amended articles. We will vote on this proposal for a decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are nearby, please join us, otherwise, I do not think we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We are voting on the proposal for a decision as presented. We're voting. There are 43 present. The first vote was not successful. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are in this National Assembly, because we will be voting on the amendments to the bill, I ask you to join us. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to carry out the second vote immediately after the first. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 43 present. I find that we are not concluding, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am terminating the work in ten minutes. We'll continue at 4:57.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity, I ask you to join us in the Chamber, for this will be the third time that we will vote on the proposal for a decision and thus indirectly determine the presence. This is the third time we have voted on the proposal for a decision, and this also reveals our presence in the Chamber. Let us vote on the proposal for a procedural decision! 49 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.12.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment to this Article, which is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 8a, whose proposer is the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. Let's vote! I think it's a little bit of carelessness. There are 44 of us present. I think there's more of us in the hall. This is the second time we have decided on the amendment for the new Article 8a. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the new Article 8a has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee to Article 10 and Article 10 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 10a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 10a have been adopted. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u195	My procedural proposal is that Members vote for themselves, but not on behalf of their neighbours, if they are not there.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u196	Please be more specific. If this is the moment that happened in the hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u197	It's happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u198	At this point, I ask you to tell which of the Members or Members voted in place of someone who is not in the Chamber. That's a serious accusation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u199	I can take a look.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 12a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 12a have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 21 and on the Article as a whole. The amendment is proposed by the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting. Mr. Kavčič, if you'd like to discuss it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u201	I don't mind the diction, maybe it's a matter of repairs in the newsroom, but as it is written here, it would logically be understood that the owner's court will break through on the billboard. For the sentence reads, "If the owner is not known, or if an invitation for an opinion cannot be served, the court shall attach it to the court record." I'd ask so nicely if the matter could be corrected a little bit. But if necessary, I can make an amendment to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Janull, or Mr Minister, you want a proposal for an internal policy committee. [[...]] I think you can fix this editorially. The representative of the secretariat confirms, that's my opinion. Thank you very much, Mr Kavčič, for the warning and in the editorial department this nonsense will be eliminated. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Committee's amendment to Article 21. We're voting. There are 43 present. I think there's more of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? A valid vote is only when everyone, even though we are present, is pressed on one of the keys, we can also "quorum". For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 21. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. We'll vote for the third time at 5:16.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u203	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we will vote for the third time on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 21. Please note and press, of course, one of the keys. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 21. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 5, 8a, 10a, 10a, 12a and 21 have been adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Here you go. Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I'd ask two more questions because I've already asked them. That is, has the main case ever been recorded and, or where, in court? And why were the funds earmarked for this project used? And if you can confirm to me that they were indeed intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u206	Dear Members. Currently, two hearing halls are equipped in Slovenia with sound recording devices in criminal matters, one at the district court in Ljubljana and one at the district court in Koper. In Ljubljana, a simulation of the main treatment and audio recording is first carried out, which produced certain results. This is just now, this year. Previously, no simulations or other analyses were carried out that could have been re-imposed to introduce such a provision as it had just been introduced. Then there was a recording of the actual treatment, and the results were such that we decided to do what we did. In the budget for this year, some funds were initially planned to equip the hearing rooms with sound recording devices, but a significant part of these funds were then reduced when the budget was considered. If it proved necessary or possible to go this way, we would, of course, redistribute funds from other items. However, as it turned out to be different, the remaining funds were spent on other tasks within the framework of investments for judicial authorities, i.e. in terms of redeployment, because this was not a specific budget item.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u208	There may be some question as to the interpretation that has now been given; because it is necessary to check which amendments we have really adopted in the second reading, I propose, on behalf of the group, that we break this agenda until we can see what we have really accepted. But I suppose we can't do that today - first of all tomorrow or at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, Mr Anderlich, you are proposing a procedural decision to end this point and proceed with the next point. Is there a reason? [[...]] I'm sorry, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u210	You asked if anyone was thinking about making an amendment. And I'm announcing that there's a chance we're going to file it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Since qualified applicants are required to have sufficient time to prepare an amendment, I interrupt this item on the agenda. We move on to agenda 9 - Proposal for a law on the regulation of certain questions in connection with the construction of infrastructure and other objects at border crossing points, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Bulgarian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is before you that I shorten this long title, the so-called Schengen law. The Amsterdam Treaty has also made the Schengen acquis the part of the European acquis to which Slovenia must adapt, and one of the most important obligations arising from this acquis is the establishment of a future southern European border, which will also be our border, the Schengen border. Why do we need this marriage? The law is a project that was created in the framework of inter-ministerial coordination led by Minister Bavcar, in which several ministries participated and also worked on this law. Experts and other officials from the ministries working on the law have found that, taking into account the existing legislation of this border, there is no way that we can build up within the time limit that is needed and set and is based on our obligations to the European Union. We therefore propose a special intervention law designed primarily to simplify and shorten licensing procedures, to acquire land and to build border crossings at the future southern European border. In the drafting of the law, we have taken account of the solution, although this is not mentioned in the explanation and I accept the criticism from the committee on which we discussed it. But we have taken into account existing solutions in the law, both the highway law and the law on the Law, so that this law is nothing new in this sense; it does not depart from existing cases of intervention legislation which regulate one thing for a single purpose. And because of that, I will also say, they deviate from some of the provisions and principles that apply in general legislation, so this is a lex specialis. However, the reason for such a particular intervention nature is essentially this public interest, the establishment of a future southern border based on our obligation to the European Union. So much in the introduction, and later, of course, in the individual articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Lavrinc. He doesn't want to present an opinion. I would like to give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[...]] Mrs. Zupan, please. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I must say that our Group of Members is once again critical of this proposal. We accept it again quickly, because otherwise - we can say - we can't work anymore. The State's interest is that we are quick to adopt the law because any delay will remove the possibility of entering the European Union, we are convinced by the proponents. We wonder what the government has been doing in this area all these years when preparations are being made, because our decision to join the European Union is not from yesterday. In ten years, the country has not been able to regulate border crossings. The existing legislation in this area offers appropriate solutions, which are too demanding and too long-lasting for the country and are preferable to avoid them, but even more so it suggests to Members at the last moment and under the weight of exceptional circumstances that the adoption of such a provision requires a lower rate, accuracy and shorter deadlines in a particular case for the construction of border crossings. We wonder why the government would not offer a proposal to simplify the construction process in general, because we know that these procedures are complex and long-term. It would be high time for the country to have the same leverage for all, and in particular much more concern should be given to citizens who are losing patience in the maze, sometimes of impossible requirements and conditions. We are against the speedy process, and we will not support the proposal, because we do not want to give the country pause for what we could and should have done, but it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. The Act on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of infrastructure and other facilities at border crossings or, in other words, Schengen intervention laws are needed at this time. Both content and method of acceptance and rapid procedure are almost necessary today. However, I must warn the government that if the problems of regulating the southern border were to be addressed in a timely manner, we probably would not need this law today. Almost all the political options we have in common, as far as Slovenia's entry into the European Union is concerned, that one of the conditions for entry into the European Union is also the establishment of the Schengen regime at the southern border is well known. In all this time, the government has done virtually nothing and has relied on the intervention law all the time, and it has not felt worthy to legalise the black border crossings at the border with the Republic of Croatia in 10 years. All of this points to the great uncertainty of the government as regards the regulation of the southern border, the government's attitude towards these areas and, in a way, the government's relationship to the 250,000 citizens living in these areas. We can say calmly that the government has used a broad political consensus of political parties concerning the entry into the European Union and we, Members, have somehow quietly forced this law to be adopted here today in a swift manner. Of course, the law is essential today if we are to regulate the entire border crossings at the southern border in a timely manner. Procedures for the preparation of spatial acts, the issuance of licences, land acquisitions will be simplified and accelerated. By reducing these deadlines and simplifying procedures, it will be possible to build border crossings and infrastructure as quickly as possible at the southern border. In addition to border checkpoints, international and inter-state border crossings, we must make small-border crossings before we enter the European Union if we want a small-border agreement with the Republic of Croatia to be effectively implemented - even after Slovenia has entered the European Union. Of course, the dynamics of building these border crossings are also important, and I must point out here that the criteria that have been taken into account so far in determining the priority species, which sets out the construction of these crossings, are the number of people at the border crossing point and the distance to the nearest already existing border crossing point, are not enough. The burden of existing border crossings should also be taken into account as a matter of urgency. For what helps us if we have an existing border crossing in front of us, but if there are 10 kilometers of tourists rolling through there? In short, this law, which also has a funny, unfortunate name, will be supported by the Members of the Party of Young Slovenia, because we do not have anything else left at this time, if we really want Slovenia to enter the so-called European Union as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of infrastructure and other facilities at border crossings. At least three reasons led us to make such a decision. For the first time, if we are to meet the requirements of the Schengen Agreement, we must start the procedures as soon as possible. The existing sectoral legislation, the settlement regulation law, as well as the space regulation law, as well as the regulation of settlements and other interventions to the premises do not allow the construction of infrastructure, infrastructure facilities on border crossings within the time limit we are pursuing. The issue is that sectoral legislation requires a lot of coordination, and the deadlines prescribed in this law are long. That is why we are assessing in liberal democracy that we need a special law that will deal specifically with certain issues, in particular with regard to deadlines and procedures for the construction of border crossings. We were also a little surprised by the fact that the Internal Policy Committee had received this law as a parent working body, since it should be considered by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee by the content of this Act as a parent body. In the parliamentary group, we will support all the amendments that have received support from the working body at the proposal of the working body concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. On behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. To this law, I would just like to say that it is very quick, once we have adopted a small-border agreement, to show immediately the substantive conflict between this agreement and the rules of the game laid down by Schengen in establishing a system and order at the border. This law has practically one purpose. The manufacturer of the site plan shall be authorised to release his hands completely, irrespective of the existence or non-existence of municipal spatial acts and State acts. I am firmly convinced, as this law has stipulated, that the drafter of the law with this substance should have approached three years earlier, when one of the other candidates proposed to this assembly to adopt a small border agreement in order to prepare spatial acts at these many new transitions in accordance with the rules of the game. Everything's nice and fine. The spatial acts will, of course, be "post festivals", by some kind of administrative duty -- or I don't know what to call it -- fixed. I firmly believe that this law will cause so many conflicts or the implementation of the Schengen border, or on the basis of this law, so many disputes and lawsuits that much more will be said about this law. I would be more pleased or satisfied to have a different approach; not to say again as on the committee when we considered this law as an interested body for infrastructure: we will prevent them from being able to exercise their, I don't know, interests. I'm on my own, too, if you don't mind. But when it hits me with some vitality of life, where it should be regulated or regulated by a municipal spatial act with all the necessary additional spatial documents, we will have problems. Of course, I will support the law, because it is a kind of alternative, as Mr Barovic, chess mat, has previously said, practically no other alternative now. This is, however, a way in which the state should not intervene and within such a short time as it is not nearly six months after we have ratified the small-border agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to clarify any doubt as to my conviction that the implementation of the Schengen border is still necessary, that there is still a need to resolve the issues at all 60 and more future border crossings or border crossings that have already been created and which are not regulated and do not meet European Union standards. At the same time, however, I feel that this law is unnecessary and that this law constitutes a grave intervention in the original constitutional jurisdiction of the congregations. I therefore join the fellow Member's opinion that the implementation of this law will be an additional bar or additional obstacle to the construction or spatial justification of the future Schengen border with border crossings and all that is involved. First of all, I would like to express my concern about the speedy procedure. I am convinced that we are in grave breach of section 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which explicitly states that the National Assembly must obtain their opinion before issuing laws and other regulations which are in accordance with the Constitution and which concern the benefits of municipalities and provinces. If the rule relates to an individual congregation or province and an intervention in their interests, the issuing body must inform the affected congregation or province of the purpose of such regulation before its publication. To a particular question on the Internal Policy Committee, when we discussed how this law was adopted, I received the answer that this was not the case and that the congregations affected had not previously been asked for consent or an opinion. On the other hand, I also argue that because I have also received an appropriate answer on this committee to my question, whether any or any of the local communities opposes the establishment of border crossings, I have also received a clear and comprehensive answer that there is no case in the Republic of Slovenia or in the area of the future Schengen border, that there is no case of a municipality that would oppose the placement of border crossings in this area. That is also why I think that the implementation of this intervention law is unnecessary and not necessary, especially because I see that this law intends only to find someone who can, or is simply, a way to regulate and legalise existing border wests or new ones. And we're forgetting something about that. We forget that the spatial plans of PINs or PUPs of municipalities are extremely important developmental components of municipalities, and if we are speaking in this case for border municipalities, this should be taken into account in particular. Both the government and the national assembly - I will say - at this point ignores the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to regulate, along with border crossings, the spatial plans of the municipalities, these border municipalities, and in this respect ensure smooth economic development, to prevent further emptying of the border space, which I think we should be, or at least verbally and in principle, to show that we are interested; and actions show the opposite. The implementation of the site plan for the border crossing, I will say, is quite partial in the municipalities where this is going to happen, saves the spatial placement of this in the space, but does not solve the complete spatial plan of the municipality. I think that's very wrong. And, on the other hand, the urgency and intervention of this law also shows that there is something wrong with our spatial legislation and that - I will say - something interventional or rapid also needs to be done in the area of the amendment of spatial legislation. Because if the State has found that it is not possible to place itself in the area of a small border crossing after a regular procedure, then what are the possibilities for municipalities to adopt and acquire the necessary spatial plans. I'll be in touch with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u223	Mr. Sušnik, time's up. Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to join the eyes of those forerunners who have found that we have not settled this issue for ten years and that we could have done so before. Therefore, it is commendable to the government that it has finally bitten into this sour apple because time is running; the hands are short. And of course, this matter needs to be settled. In front of us is also the opening of new ones, as a colleague in SMS said, of small-scale SOBS crossings, which must, of course, not only be established, but properly established before we meet with the establishment of the Schengen regime. We need to move quickly from this address. We are aware and have also found this on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment that a complication may also arise. That is why this law should reduce this risk as much as possible, this risk, so that, despite the fact that individual local communities have not expressed concerns about construction, but in the process of obtaining permits, of course this may occur. And then the process of legalising and establishing a normal border crossing can stand with all the consequences that follow. I would also like to ask the government representative how it is with the agreement with the Croatian side to build small border crossings together. Are these conversations still ongoing? Is there any other option? Of course, it's rational moves we could make. Our government has also been a proponent of this, and I am interested in how the Croatian side reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. This law certainly has a significant impact on the area from which I am also at home and where we have quite a few border crossings of different categories. Unfortunately, I must join all those who have a rather critical view of the law itself, which is, in a way, brought into consideration. I must say that, of course, I will vote in favour of the law, but not with some great scale, not with great enthusiasm, because we have finally got something that can speed up procedures. I hope that, in the next month's debate in this National Assembly, when we receive laws, new laws on the construction of buildings, on the regulation of space, perhaps some other - including the water law - that we are talking about today will re-establish, try to take those laws in the direction and bring them closer to the solutions of this intervention law. In fact, it is true that it is true that things should be simplified, because our procedures for obtaining building permits - and people who ask and know absolutely nothing about what this plan is and what it is putting into space, but they know that it takes several years to wait for permission, are rightly asking why it is so. Of course, they are in a significantly worse position than the state when it makes a request, of course, also puts before us a request for the adoption of a law that will accelerate the acquisition of location and building permits for buildings that are over 10 years old. Of course, in this contribution, which I have myself under this law, I must also partially replicate to all those who say that this law follows the agreement on small-border cooperation with the Republic of Croatia. Far from it, it's true! All those critics should know that this agreement could have been adopted two to three years ago, and then this intervention law would not have been necessary at all. This law follows the requirements to be met by Slovenia at the time of its accession to the European Union. Here are mainly problematic so-called interstate or international border crossings, BIPI, it is said, those border control points where there will be full control over the passage of people, goods and services, and these are just something on the roads, one on the railway, one on the port and one on the airport; and also those interstate border crossings that are in high priority, such as - say - Rogatec, Metlika and some others. All of these have indeed been regarded as an urgent act of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of independence, but of course there are no excuses that they have not been legalised in all this time. The only excuse may be that it is only at this point that standards are being set by which these border crossings are to be built so that they can be fully monitored and provided for by the Schengen Agreement. Let me conclude by saying that, of course, I will adopt the law, but, or I will support the law with all the warnings that it is not right for this law to appear just now. It is not right that the Ministry, which has prepared it, as well as the authorities involved, have not been able to bring this to Parliament in almost one year, since, to my knowledge, the government, in January, ordered the competent ministry to draw up this law. However, I will again draw attention to some of the solutions contained in this law in the system laws that follow us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Just for a moment, I'm not repeating what's already been said. But in fact, everyone who has been briefed on this law on the Infrastructural Committee in detail knows that it is an essential problem of this law, what he has said and said to fellow Member Sušnik. So, where can the state intervene in local communities? And as set out here by the amendments to Article 6, if, of course, these amendments are also accepted, then I am sure that, in fact, this law is what it calls for to be judged in a constitutional court. And I am almost sure that it will not be possible to avoid this, because if the state so intervenes within the jurisdiction of the local community, then I do not think that such solutions will satisfy you. These solutions, which are here, I must say, here at this plenary session that the legal service of the Infrastructure Committee has proposed a different solution when it comes to these interventions. She proposed such solutions as were known in the construction of Slovenian motorways and where these cases were also already tested through the Constitutional Court, but after the committee voted and approved the proposal for a legal service, Mr Avščič, as here today, forgot to vote, did not vote; there, however, he did not comment on the voting device because the committees were voting with a raise of hands, but simply demanded that the vote be repeated and then in a re-vote, there was some sort of solution, as is now indicated here in these two amendments to Article 6. Personally, I don't think this solution is good. And even when I'm listening here to mayors who are more familiar with spatial plans and site planning, we can only expect that, despite the speedy process of this matter, it will probably not be possible to resolve it in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u230	It is certainly true what Mr Vukko said on behalf of the group that the LDS supports efforts in order to build the first border crossing under the Schengen conditions in 2002 but it is also true that this is only a matter of urgency and that is why the LDS landing on such an arrangement. Otherwise it is true that: for the first time, it is wrong for the Ministry of the Interior to defend this law - this is a typical environmental law - and I really do not know how the government is [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, ma'am, a typical environmental law. And I really don't know why you don't once come up with a law that we already imposed on the government in this House years ago, that all facilities of state importance should come under a uniform law and be subject to the same conditions for all objects. And this applies to highways for which we have some so-called "Stational Law", so for this law of yours now, so for the law on state roads, which should also be and are also problems, even now that the building law has arranged that it is necessary to obtain, even if 100 heirs, of all consent that you can make one metre of sidewalk, as well as of course for gasification, for electrification and for all other matters. And, of course, she didn't apologize for the way we handled these things. Mr. Aurelio, of course, I understand that he advocated this only because of the urgency and need, because he felt that it was in the department that he should support. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not the point. Not only local communities, there is a question of citizens, there is a question of private property, it is an issue of interference with the property these citizens have. So, a hundred meters, under your law, it will be under one condition declassified and used for things of national importance, and I agree that it is right, but from those hundred meters forward it will be under another law and there will be completely different conditions and those people will be able to sell land at a hundred times if you want, or they will get it just so that the state can do it. No, you're wrong. In this country, all citizens must have the same order, the same conditions. However, what is important for the country must be made possible for the State to be committed under the same conditions for these purposes. That's all this is about. And that means that in this process, citizens, congregations and states must have their word, each in accordance with the law. And in this context, of course, it is understandable that something has squeezed us again, so time has squeezed us, and by the end of 2002, we need to build a border crossing of the Coast and this law is made for this border crossing because you will not build another in 2002. Am I wrong? No, I'm not wrong, you're going to start the preparatory work you're going to start I don't know what, but I'm sure in 2002 no other border crossing will be built on Schengen than just the Coast; you'll start some more, but one will be built. But, okay. However, I am only reminding you of something: I will vote in favour of this law because I believe that it is necessary to follow some of the 'higher interests' of this country, but at the same time I am sad that, because of the ease of the government's departments, we are doing such procedures quickly and in a manner that is done. Leave this to the Ministry of the Environment and agree in the government that this is their law. If all other laws in this area have been brought by them, let them bring this. You can object to me. There's no need. But if you think that only because the interior ministry is an omen of "police" and that you can do it quickly and forcefully, then that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the replica, then Mr. Wolf, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you. A brief replica of colleague Anderlich. I agree that this is a law that belongs to the environment and space. I note, however, that all these years, of course, the ministries or ministers of this department have not proposed any such solution and that time has been cut short and that, thank God, someone within the government has been found - and this is with the agreement of the government - who has done this task. I would also like to see the Minister for Environment and Space prepare and propose this in recent years. This did not happen, the time is no longer to consider who would propose, but it was time to act. Thank you. It is an intervention, it is a one-off move, it is not a matter of the conditions set out by colleague Anderlič concerning other objects; it is a matter of special needs and I understand the nature and purpose of this law from this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Rokavec. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u234	It is fitting that the gentleman replicates who does not listen to the debate. But it is certainly so that, regardless of what has been said, it is clear that in this country the property of the world is concerned and that intervention into space and private property, as well as the jurisdiction of local self-government when it comes to determining spatial conditions, are sacred matters. That's all I was talking about. What someone did, what no one did, is another matter. All I'm asking is that we don't be unjust and that we don't make mistakes when we go into space. In fact, once we reach out, we reach out for all eternity, even if we have done wrong. Mr Aurelio, of course, because he did not listen, he heard that I had initially said that I would uphold the law because this is the need of this country. I regret, however, that not only previous ministers, but also a few decades earlier, have not complied with human rights and the standards applicable to the private property of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the replica before, and then Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. I think Mr Anderlich's debate was very appropriate. But I'm giving the replica to Mr. Yuri. In particular, in this sense - I think that there is no question here why certain ministries or the Ministry of the Environment and Space have not done anything so far, but mainly to the question of how the government has allocated this law, the preparation of this law to an extra purely different sector, which does not have any direct interference with space and the environment. And another question that comes to mind. This law once again changes the rules of the game in the area of space management and the environment. We are introducing extra rules and I think that in this way we will really get into serious problems - in addition to what has already been pointed out here today: the issue of interference with the competence of local communities, a very crucial issue. I think this law will probably be the subject of constitutional disputes, constitutional judgements and so on. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u238	First, I would remind Mr Anderlich that there is a sound in this house. And of course, even when we are not in the hall, we listen - and listen carefully - to the debate. That's why I was listening to my colleague Anderlich, and I feel the need to answer. Why this task has been assigned to the Ministry of the Interior, government representatives will tell themselves. But I don't think they've shown such desires infinitely. However, they found that the need arose and that something needed to be done. And unfortunately, since the second, perhaps the more competent ministry did not do so, this was taken over by this ministry. But of course, the government itself will answer I am surprised that we are asking ourselves these questions among the coalition Members here today, which I believe have been agreed upon in the previous stages. I don't understand this controversy from this address. I would ask the government once again to answer that question about Croatia's participation in building small-border crossings when they come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Vukko and Mr Brenčič are waiting for the debate. I think it's time we gave them our word. Mr. Wolf, then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u240	In some ways, I'd like to replicate both colleague Sok and colleague Anderlich. First, to Comrade Sok, when he said that this law was essential to the extent to which the State could exercise jurisdiction over the congregations. That's not even what this is about. It is essential in this law whether we will build border crossings by existing law, by applicable legislation or by special special law. That's an essential question. Because we do not need to build border crossings in some normal circumstances: we have a building law, we have a land regulation law, we have a building law, we have a settlement regulation and we have a building law. We don't need him. If the government is - and I think that this part goes to my colleague Tonet as he talks about Mr. Bulgarian, I don't think this prestigious fight is even important here right now. From the beginning, she was a representative of the Government or a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space at all meetings of the Committee. And the Secretary of State said the introductory explanation, then in some way he apologized and handed the word to the spacers, from the environment and the space that, of course, we tried together at all the board meetings to find a solution and in this sense, [[...]] However, I fully agree with my colleague Anderlich that the problem is that we do not have a law, a legislation that would already deal with these issues in some way. It is a question of whether the congregations will dictate countries or whether the state will dictate to the congregations. I don't think there's any harm to the autonomy of the congregations here. It is that we already have an established system, according to which the municipality must coordinate the basic spatial act or spatial components of the long-term and medium-term plan with the country and not quite the other way around. And all these mayors sitting here today know what kind of trouble there is under existing legislation before you turn one field into a building plot. And the municipality has to coordinate with the state and with the ministries, not the other way around. And if we follow the purpose of this law, it is, to start with construction and also - I agree - with the regulation of border crossings, which are set in many ways. If we start with that, and if we have a deadline, we need a special law. And if we have adopted a law, this one is special only in some part: to shorten the deadlines for individual procedures. We also extended the deadlines to the comments of the members of the committee. It was a disputed deadline of 8 days for the public disclosure of the draft site plan for the border crossing. We said there can't be 8 days here, but at least 15. Under the existing law, 30 days are due. So, we cut him short for 15 days. And if we follow the purpose of this law, then of course we must follow a special arrangement. However, if we think we are capable of building border crossings in this country with existing structures, it would be reasonable to suggest that the proposal should be withdrawn and not discussed because we do not need it to be built. However, in the government, as far as I know, the government has today confirmed two new laws, which are urgently needed. And that's the law, the new law on regulating space and building buildings. This is how we can expect in the following year, in the coming year 2002, that we will also begin to deal with these laws, where, of course, we will have to establish a single regime for all infrastructure facilities of state importance. But, of course, given that I am also a candidate for the amendment, I will then explain this relationship between the State and the municipality in accepting spatial components.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I have two replicas, two already reported to the replicas, first Mr. Anderlich checked in, then Mag. A visor. Mr. Brenčič, I'm sorry. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u242	It's all good and good, but it's just one thing and the only thing. This is about how we will allow these citizens to participate in the decision-making process of intervention into space and their property. That's all it's about, nothing else. I am against it, I speak for myself, and I say it out loud, so that this country will once do some procedures. For 10 years, border crossings have been blacked out, and for 10 years there are no procedures and no legalization, these procedures. Indeed, much more so because Mr Vuko said that it was today that the law was in the government. Yeah, he's gonna have some treatment, etc. But then say: because of Schengen we need one border crossing, two, three, which we will build in the coming year, and consider the procedures for those three here and let us tell these citizens, we did it because of this, this and this, your rights are such and such. It is not right, Mr Vukko, to shorten the public disclosure of the site plan to Sai, you could have given six hours if you had given eight days, you could have given six hours, but it is not right. [[...]] And 15 days, it's exactly the same. It's exactly the same. As far as this is concerned, the procedures, in my opinion, are uniform, clear and loud. There's no shame in this. But it is true that at the next stage, when there are complaints about harmonising damages, etc., and obstructing the procedure to reach into space, you can say, "Gentlemen, now this is a national interest, you have no opportunity to complain, to linger, etc., we will reach into space," - yes. Of course, for an appropriate compensation, and when this is announced, it is clear. In this case, unfortunately, as I said, in the end, because of the "toboda" established state necessity, which is only a fruit or the result of some slow procedures in various ministries, this was supported. However, I think that this is not a generalisation of all objects from Lendava to Kopra, but that it is really only necessary to define the transitions that are necessary for us to start building them in the coming year. This is in the first place Obreje, as I understand it, and then some of these transitions through Schengen; but the rest of us can work according to the procedure, as for interventions into space otherwise applies.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Two are reported to the replica, first Mr. Sušnik, then Mr. Vukko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm afraid I have to challenge Mr. Wolf. Look, to say here that the interests of the congregations are not being violated in any way, I think it's a bit of a hair draw. Autonomy's broken, too. It is simply that in existing legislation the public interest is exercised by changing the existing spatial planning acts in a manner of express interest, and that is what the municipality does. This is what the congregations have done in most cases, and I do not think there have ever been any particular opposition. Now, you are arguing that with the situation where the interest of the municipality is reduced to an opinion - now, well, also the amended 15-day public debate, when the interest of the municipality is reduced only to an opinion, compared to some cable operator who, under existing legislation, can give consent - you claim that this is not the case. All previous cases, all previous state emergencies, were first aligned with municipal spatial planning acts, and then the government adopted them on the basis of these regulations and exercised State interest. That's not the case. And to reduce the opinion of the municipalities - I would like to remind you that through the beloved representatives in the municipal council, the will of the affected people is expressed, not least, by the decision of the changed circumstances of the new people to space. And to minimize this, I think that even bigger problems, even bigger complaints, more prisons and similar cases will prevent, once again, the urgent construction of border crossings or the Schengen border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mag. A visor. Excuse me, Mr. Wolf, mag. The Vizjak reported to the replica earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate my colleague Vukko in particular in his work to minimize or in this case virtually destroy the impact of the local community and reduce it, the complex process changes and this disturbs me. In particular, because of the procedure, both the adoption of the spatial plan and the spatial implementation acts, such as the building plans, the location plans or anything else, it has been so hasty that it ensures a synchronous procedure of interference between the local community, between a number of voters and not least between the state. I support all initiatives that shorten this process and erase unnecessary elements. I am opposed, however, to the fact that this process breaks down in the basic dialogue and the coordination of local communities with the country, especially for such strong infrastructure facilities as the construction of border checkpoints and other border crossing points. I would point out that it is unacceptable that the country has not come to the local community in practice today with any plan. With no plan! Nothing showed what she wanted to do and where she wanted to do it and to what extent she wanted to do it. On the other hand, by means of this urgent intervention law, he wants to practically force a solution. I'm not even going down on the Coast here. I'm also from this congregation where Obrežje is. But I'm going to land at the border crossing of the Age. The age will be the border control point in the middle of the settlement. And now the congregation has no right to give consent to this intervention! That is, to put it mildly, destruction and interference in the currently established methods of intervention into space. I believe that this matter is acceptable, and this intervention law is acceptable if there is a word of agreement. That's what I think. It changes the complex concept - and here I replicate Mr Wolf, because it changes the concept. The location plan or location plan, for example for motorways, must now be in line with the spatial plan. This solution overcomes this existing matter. The spatial plan was adopted by a municipality which had to align it with national interests. That's a fact. However, it was accepted by the congregation. And the location plan was in line with that. This law stipulates that this - so-called state location plan or whatever it is later called - goes beyond all of this. And it destroys the role of the environment where this facility will be placed. And here I fully agree with Mr Anderlich, who says he is exceptionally good for the emergency. Let's tolerate this delay to the government itself, and let's give some things to do -- some partial. This can't be a system! This is where this system is introduced; and I am against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Wolf, then Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u248	I'm listening to this. Of course, it is always more confusing for me to have my colleague Vizjak - and don't blame me - completely fail to master the matter of the law on regulating the premises, the current one, and the law on regulating settlements and other interventions into space. Because if you knew him, you wouldn't talk like you do. I know you, and I think you're always getting ready for this. That's not what this is about. Mr. Comrade Sušnik! I was talking about autonomy and interests. These are two major differences: the autonomy of the municipalities and the interests of the mayor or the municipality, or the interest expressed through some act. I completely understand, and in your speech, you made clear what your interest is in order to arrange the entire spatial act of the congregation. At the expense of the state! That was from your speech. [[...]] Of course, the interests between the state and the congregation are always different. But when I was talking about autonomy, I was talking about the fact that with this law, the autonomy of the congregations in that sense, as it already has, is not in any way smaller. And here, also what was said: decommissioning procedures and so on. This law "understands" all procedures, standards that this country has already established in the field of intervention into space. Once again, the only thing that matters is that intervention reduces the hands. Thus, the law "understands": and disqualification, pre-graduation communication, substitution and so on. Of course, we will not, we will never be able to make a law so that we do not have the opposite interests you have in a certain space. It is only a matter of whether or not we will exercise national interests by special law. Finally, an opinion which has already been mentioned several times. This has already been pointed out on the Infrastructure Committee and on the Home Committee, and I think it would be time for government representatives to come forward as well. It is an opinion on the draft border crossing point plan. Do not mix, all throws in: from spatial derivatives, PUPs and what you, Mr. Vizjak, were talking about. We are talking about a spatial plan, and then we are talking about spatial implementing acts, as far as national infrastructure is concerned, but we are talking about a spatial implementation act for infrastructure of State importance, where the Ministry is governed and all those entities that must be involved are involved everywhere. I'll ask you in the end, Comrade Sušnik - probably. If in your congregation, when you make a change in the spatial plan, citizens, locals, give their consent to the draft agreement: are opinions binding? Probably not. Then I will vote for all of this, and we will give our consent because sooner or later we will bump into the interests of a congregation. I'm thinking again, and I'm stressing. The existing law, the purpose of this law, is to speed up procedures and, last but not least, to exercise State interest in this area. I hardly imagine that any municipality would be opposed to having a border crossing arranged in its area as a modern border crossing would look.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you very much. In the next order, first of all, Mr Mag's replica. Visjak, then Mr Anderlič, Mr Auschwitz and Mr Grošelj, in the following order. Mr Brenčič is still waiting for the debate and the Secretary of State would like a word. But like I said, it's a replica. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u250	Yes, I am replicating from the deep disappointment of my fellow Member Wolf. Look! He embarked on this marginal group of Members to first regret that someone did not know the regulation, and in the end he did not say with one argument what had deviated from the regulation in my debate. This is a grave insult to me, and I expect an apology or an argument. You are embarking on a marginal group of Members who are and will always be ridiculed and insolvent by this national assembly. So please don't do this anymore. You stood here with the words that came out of my debate, that I didn't know the rule, and then you made a nice move on another debate. Tell me which segment of my discussion has deviated from this - this is what I would like to learn from you!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, if I saw the right one, you didn't want it. I'm sorry. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Just this correction - Mr Anderlič mentioned the border crossing of the Coast. But this one's not even in the game. Border crossing Obrežje was with a location plan for the highway section Krška vas-Brežje, thank God, confirmed. Thank God, it's confirmed! Land purchases and everything runs according to the procedure that is in force in the law, and even in this part is not good, not the best. I'll tell you later. The second part - of course - I do not agree with Mr Vukko to interpret the rules, because there are other people here to tell us where and at which points the local community will have the right to agree on the procedures envisaged. If he has the option of giving his consent to the State Spatial Plan, then the matter is fine. If he doesn't, then he's not okay. But we are not Members here to interpret each other's professional matters. That's what the government will say. If in the process of adopting the mandatory starting points of the medium- and long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia, spatial I mean, also the local community - then this is fine. For all these border crossings are not in the plans, but mostly not in the plans. For no congregation is so foolish as to invest its modest resources in changing the country’s plans for important projects. And those plans are out. Well, because I'm already in the middle of this: real concern is how such intervention laws are then implemented. And we, unfortunately, have very poor experience in the coastal area, as land acquisition procedures are under way today, or people who are losing land and houses. But I won't talk about it. This will be the story that may be presented when the plan for the construction of motorways for 2002 is adopted. But the way the state acts when there's too much power in the hands, it's not good. When a price is offered at which someone complains, then a lower price is offered with a second valuation, and the third rate is already a classification, but it is completely incorrect. Therefore, it is likely that this debate on this law is aimed primarily at protecting the benefits of those who may be affected, while at the same time adopting a law that will allow for a faster implementation, unfortunately, an already heavily understated, very important state project, which is called an interstate, international and also a small border crossing point, which must be built within two years in order to have all this regulated, which we must have before entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u254	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Mr Wolf, I will not teach you - what the mayors and Members have already said, I must say that you are not thinking correctly. If you think in this matter that we are trying to legalise the black construction that we are going to classify today as an exception, as Mr Anderlich has said, in this case I agree with you and will also support your amendment to Article 6. However, I ask that you do not make the exception discussed today as a rule: an inalienable right and competence in the area of space and local community. We have municipal councils for that, and you know when. When we reach a decision on changes and additions to the components of the medium- and long-term plan, the state must come up with the mandatory composition of the municipal spatial plan, which we must take into account, which means, of course, that the same procedure should be analogous. Therefore, please: this is an exception which is the result of the situation found, and so I ask that we do not teach false religion and by some force prevent what we are, of course, afraid that this exception will then become a rule in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u256	Obviously we don't hear from each other or we don't hear from him. I don't know what his reaction is. I was going to say in a very mild way that you don't know and I didn't say you had no idea. If I said so, I'd apologize. But I said you don't know all the materials. That's not the point now. Because - I'll make an argument. You were talking about spatial regulatory conditions, about spatial plans - I'm going to be a magnetogram - but in the end you were talking about an opinion on this. The opinion in this context, which is problematic, is in the drafting of a border crossing point plan. Just, we won't - we can do it later. I wouldn't politicize with you, including my colleague Grošelj. [[...]] I wasn't talking about what you just told me. I know how to adopt the spatial plan of the municipality and I know that it is accepted by the municipal council and I know that the programme must be prepared and I know that there must be a decomposition and I know something that this spatial plan must be aligned with the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia. If not, the government, which aligns with the decision on the basis of the starting points given by the competent ministries, considers that it is not harmonised, cannot accept the municipality and I have not spoken to this plan, proposal or amendment. However, I have never said in this House that the adoption of spatial plans is not within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, but in accordance with the law and the restrictions that this law brings. I'm not here to declare myself an opponent of the congregations. In this particular case, I am following the purpose of the law and I am sure that what I have said I am speaking professionally and on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The MP, Mr. Sušnik, has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Wolf the part where he said someone else was trying to attach a dart. Look. That's totally not true. Placing in a space such a large infrastructure facility as the border crossing without affecting the entire spatial plan of the municipality is an illusion. The border crossing location plan is intended to do just that. I will say, illogically, unfairly, even harmful from a national defence and development point of view, it is up to the municipalities to require that this location plan, or this intervention, then into a space that will be legalised by a border crossing site, legalize or place in their spatial plans exclusively their own costs and, on top of that, take care of a certain infrastructure that cannot be narrowed in any way and coordinated only to a narrow border crossing area that will be addressed by a location plan. From this point of view, it seems to me that this debate is a mere blurring of the case, and, I will say, I am very much joining Mr Anderlich, who has clearly indicated here that there are no real people or real ministries who should propose a law or regulation of this problem under existing legislation. I still think that if we had the will to handle the matter properly, we could also, by changing the spatial plans of the congregations where these border crossings will be built, settle this matter at the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you. The Replica has a Member, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I also have a replica, and otherwise a few discussions, to which I particularly want the reply of a government representative. A little replica first. Mr. Wolf, I don't see any danger of the municipalities getting plans at the expense of the state. The one who knows this matter, and Mr. Wolf says he knows her, should really know this matter. The question is as follows: each municipality invests in the production, acquisition of a spatial plan, a long-term social and spatial plan, a huge interest and effort and resources; funds immediately more if the matter runs as it should run. The municipality makes all the grounds right, and then we have to go through some institutions for cultural, natural heritage and at the first lipo stop - it's a disaster! - and we can't make one intersection like we can't make one border crossing. Then we come to the Agriculture Ministry and give an opinion to the Ministry of Space, which, according to national projects, has to coordinate this. It's a real pain in the ass. As prostitutes, we appear, mayors, Members of Parliament, because this is not the case and it is not the case, for some of the first categories of some goods there, which does not allow you to put one infrastructure over. This is said to mean that the municipalities have more or less acquired, adopted spatial acts, which the State has not projected in giving a hand and an opinion on these matters, so that once the small-scale crossings will be crossings according to the Schengen provisions. And now the thing is, with this law, it's necessary to get to the site plan after the slightest resistance. Here is not only the issue of the Coast, the Coast is as much regulated in spatial acts; it is a multitude of other small border crossings, new ones, and must establish the category of Schengen. And the location plans will be being prepared immediately, now, by 2004 the Fertik issue must be. This is the fact that the law makes it possible, after least resistance, to draw up a site plan beyond the arguments that should be faced by the people living there. Even this is already happening that at these little border crossings already those who have 'feeling' for already shopping with land because they know that they will 'cash'. Today that land is worth half a square meter, it's already being paid for by 6 marks, you know. And that poor guy just sold it, not knowing that one was already making a profit out of it. That's right. There's something else I want to know. Because one has already said that, after Schengen, full control will be exercised only at international crossings such as the Coast, Sečovija and so on. If I know Schengen, there will be complete control at every interstate crossing. That's mostly what I want from the government, but that's what it is. The same regime will be in Cabra as it will be on the Coast. That's how he's gonna be at the border crossing. And that is why it is now necessary so fraughtly quickly and, I would say, without the rules of the game, to communicate between landowners, between the people who live there, the congregation whose powers are there and the country to make. I'm saying that approach is too hard. Too hard because he simply doesn't have any real security guard to find the right solutions with the people who live there early enough. And because of that, you know, there will be a search for justice or property rights through justice. First of all, I'm interested in having government representatives tell me what the regime will be like. Will Schengen be established as inter-state crossings at all these small-border crossings, which are established by a small-border agreement? Will it only be on the interstates, the Coast, the Invert, the Sečovlje and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Dr. Bulgarian, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u262	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here comes the impression that it is a law which in an unfair, unconstitutional way violates local autonomy, the rights of citizens, citizens, interferes with the right to property and so on, which of course is not true. Something about this first. As far as the right to local communities is concerned, if we carefully examine and know the legislation, we would certainly know that Article 45 of the Law on the regulation of premises does not provide and does not give the municipalities the possibility they have here. What has been the most time in the debate is that they give an opinion on this procedure of drawing up and obtaining permission. So, regular law, regular law doesn't provide for that, and this law does. First thing. Second thing. As far as cooperation is concerned. The mayors were also invited to attend an inter-ministerial coordination meeting. The mayors were all invited. They were there. And they knew about it, they knew about it. Then one thing I don't know is, in fact, I don't understand. All this debate, I would not go into it myself, between Mr Anderlic and Mr Yuri, who, which ministry. The law was inter-departmental, with a number of ministries involved, and all the rights of the Ministry were actively worked. And let's say, I don't know why it's so important, who, now, if what Mr Anderlich suggested is because it's MNZ that it gives a greater weight to speed. This was by no means any purpose. Simplely, this was the agreement of the inter-ministerial coordination, which consists of more than five ministers to put this law into this area and that was such a decision and nothing else. I don't know, I don't understand why this is about prestige or anything. We were all sitting together in content, which is why, after all, Mrs Tramškova is here with me from the Ministry of the Environment, so that the work was carried out by that right ministry, and there are provisions which affect both internal affairs and finance and other areas. So that I don't really understand this debate and I think it's a shame that in this debate, I don't know if they're having problems or not. As far as property and emphasis are concerned, we are interfering in some kind of anti-constitutional way. In fact, the law merely sums up what we already have in Darce's law, in legislation that has already been passed. Now, if you think this is unconstitutional, as you know, there is a case before a constitutional court. You can check that out. But I can tell you that we did a good job on these things before we wrote these things. So that we believe that these things are not unconstitutional, that there are safeguards that give citizens and citizens the opportunity to express their opinions and exercise their interest. The essence of this is, in particular, to shorten deadlines and simplify procedures, but not to deprive citizens of the right to decide on their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Yes, I'm sorry. Mr. Anderlich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u264	Everything is possible and a person experiences everything if he is patient. I heard something out of the mouth of the Secretary of State that was supposed to take care of the state system. I don't think I should have heard it. In fact, there is a government law, there is a law on the organisation of ministries, which specifies exactly who deals with the space, who deals with the education, who deals with what else. And internal affairs don't deal with space, in my firm belief. But the fact that there's a deal, it's, uh, please, for pre-new time or somewhere else. I agreed to meet my friends at 7:00 today at 7:00. This is permitted under the Merger Act or by the Constitution if you wish. But there is no way that we can agree that someone is going to set something up because that is what we agreed on. Those authorised in that State and the Ministry of the Interior are not authorised to regulate the area of space regulation. It's not. It would certainly be good for the Ministry of the Environment to be involved in the Ministry of the Interior and for another possibility. Maybe for traffic, maybe for what I know, some other. But let's leave it, it really isn't, but because the secretary of state for this area, he felt that the state regime should be used to make these arguments, not to answer questions that are fundamental. So how does this country intervene in the way in which it takes account of the rights, constitutional rights of citizens, local self-government and all those interested in, of course, constitutionally authorised rights in certain areas. That'd be right. There's no way you can cover yourself with the Darce Act. You can't use the Dars Act here because the Dars Act is a law that allows special interventions to the highway building area, and it's a law on a gas toll which allows Dars, as a special state firm, to provide funds for the construction of motorways on behalf of the country. Please, when we talk about these things, you just have to be precise and you can't extend some law to anything else. It is true that a number of border crossings will be at the end of the highway, at the end of this highway in this country, and you will use it. But this is only in my conduct in three cases, in many cases you will be very difficult, at least for the time being not in the Dars programme, such as in the national programme Darsa, other motorways that would end up at, say, border crossings with the Republic of Croatia. So please, let's talk about things, talk about what we have on our agenda. One more time. I have previously said, and I always support the efforts of this country to resolve the issues that it must address due to such or other needs. But, please, not easily, not in the way that something gets out of hand and the law runs over some other things that are essential ingredients to make it work. It's not fair, and of course I can't support it. My appeal was just to look at what really needs to be done and not at all reduce your hands and, let's say, put the local community in a position of opinion, not of co-operators and things like that. But I say, I also think that I will not take another call at this point because there is no need, because the Secretary of State does not want to answer the questions that have been asked and the dilemmas that have been put here, but talks about how there is no need for controversy between Members, etc. This has nothing to do with the whole thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u265	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to inform the honourable Members and Members that in some way we have to be in agreement, because otherwise we will not be able to conclude this meeting and convene extraordinary meetings tomorrow. Mr. Brenčič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. See, Mr Bulgarian, that this law gives more municipalities than some kind of roofing law on space regulation. Yes, of course, that's not true at all. The basic law does not need to give this because the spatial plan for the country is perfectly regulated by law in sonic order and does not need to be given to the congregation, you know, no more consent and opinions. That's where the use of the space will be, where the bridge will be, where the infrastructure facility will be, where the central activities will be, the third. That won't be necessary. And with this law, of course, we are solving the situation when we pass the roof rules of the game in the use of space, according to the basic law that regulates games in a global way. This, of course, is adapted to this law or to the intervention with the location plan, so that the congregation will still give its opinion. Otherwise, you know, if we follow the rules of the game and the law as we understand it, and as with its purpose and the structure of the content laid down in the regulation of the space, there is no need for the municipality to agree any more after the plan has been adopted, things are defined. And it is, I would say, unnecessary to say that this law gives more. No, this law saves some abnormal interference into a space that is abnormal in relation to the basic structure of the rules of the game when using space.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Wolf first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u268	I'm going to say something now, and I hope you won't replicate again in such a large number. If what is now, of course, a dilemma, since you all think that in some way the role of the congregation is cancelled if we turn the matter around, will the congregations, without Article 6, coordinate the spatial components of the medium and long-term plan for the needs of the municipalities and on their own account? They probably won't because they're going to come, "Well, that's the state's interest. Please take care of it there. We know there's a border crossing." In this law, I understand that the State or the competent authorities of that country, when they make a local draft, the draft local draft for the border crossing, will not allow them to go completely beyond those most important components or the comments that the municipality will make. The council will give them within a 15-day period when they have the right to an opinion. If we agree on what's been heard here, there could be a blockage. And if it's consent, it's binding. Then there will be no transition. The one who did, okay. [[...]] And the amendment, which is on the 6th day, is a presumption which covers only one condition that the local plan is in force by means of a spatial act of the Republic of Slovenia. And, if we know that the spatial act of the congregation must be in line with the national act, the opposite is true, then the congregation must coordinate it. And in this way, when interests are aligned there and this location plan is implemented by a government regulation, the municipality also "spents up some money" on the location plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak has a word first. You're giving up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u270	It's a very short replica. But, Mr. Wolf, if anyone mixes in their performance a matter of what the congregation owes and what the state is, it is you. Really, I'll tell you because you don't get too deep into the whole definition of how a municipal space act comes about. [[A voice from behind.]] That's right. And he was in sync. No, no, no. Now, however, the state is going through this law on the basis of intervention, and therefore the opinion is not enough because it will go beyond the logic of least resistance to the constitutional interests or freedoms of an individual.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the government want a word? Please, Secretary of State. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm inviting everyone into the hall, and it's almost 7:00, when we have to decide to continue the session. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u272	I'd like to answer a few questions here again. First of all, what Mr Anderlich said about the proper ministry. The law, of course, extends to the environment and space, but the law is not only about it, the law is also about border crossings, it is also about matters belonging to other ministries. So something, which provision, where it prohibits it, if the law is complex and extends to different areas, that it must not be someone other than the one that is so that I do not understand these criticisms very well. [[...]] As for the criticism of I, I think it would be much better if we discussed concrete articles, because, in fact, the amendment we agreed on on the Committee to Article 6 proposed by Mr Vukko in a very good way solves a large part of these concerns, expressed here, about how this law overwhelms the opinion of the municipalities, etc., how the local interests, local rights, are being violated, but it is difficult to come to that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants a word, otherwise I will conclude the general debate. I do not see the deadlines raised, which means that I can conclude the general debate. We should now go to the vote on the amendments a few minutes before 7:00. These aren't so few, so I'd have said the following before. All afternoon, we have probably all been watching more or less how the meeting is going to take place to find out how to actually act on the fact that there are still a few items on the agenda related to the deadline for entry into force. We were aware of this and, as we have said, on Tuesday, we decided that in the event that the Rules of Procedure restrict us to work in regular session after the 20th, when Parliamentary holidays begin according to it, we would convene an extraordinary meeting. We now have two options: one to draw today's session and work until the moment when we can also discuss and decide on the 10th item of the agenda, which is still attached to these hands, or to convene an extraordinary meeting tomorrow. There are two possibilities. Now, first, by voting, we will decide how to proceed. Here, in the event that we conclude today, for tomorrow we would call an extraordinary meeting, all the items of the agenda which remained at this regular meeting would be moved to the next regular January meeting. So now we need to find out what is good to do, and perhaps it would be worth taking a few minutes to consider with the leaders of the Group to come to a decision. Comrade Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal? My friend Anderlich first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u274	Thank you very much, President. I've called before, and I'm fine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u275	No, no, I didn't notice you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u276	I think it is necessary, Mr President, to take five, ten minutes off, to agree on what are the laws or points to be carried out this year - let's not go too far - and then we will meet and decide whether to do this today or to have an extraordinary session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u277	Until including point 12, we should do this, or at the next meeting tomorrow, if no one protested that this decision violated the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u278	Up to and including point 12?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u279	Yes, up to and including point 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you. It's explained to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u281	Comrade Anderlich, we will now try to accept a clever, reasonable solution. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u282	In my opinion, it is only necessary to do another 10a point, because both points 11 and 12 after the review - otherwise we have received ratification laws on the bench today - says that it is necessary to do so in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the country which accepts it. And in this context, it can also be done in January.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u283	From point 10a forward, do you think?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u285	I asked the secretariat for an opinion and got the view that it would be good to adopt points 11 and 12, in accordance with the government's statement, perhaps to conclude, of course, that the 10a is that limit. Now, of course, it is appropriate to decide how to proceed. Are you, colleagues and colleagues so kind as to meet me at the college in a few minutes? Please, this college will not last long, we will decide, according to the views of the groups of Members, how to proceed. At 19.05, we'd meet in ten minutes at the gym and decide in ten minutes, please. My colleagues and colleagues, however, I invite the leaders to stay here in the hall to make a deal here in the central work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-20-SDZ3-Redna-11.ana.u286	I invite all colleagues and colleagues who are not in the great debate room of the National Assembly to join us. I would like to say that it is the most prudent decision, at this point in time, to decide to postpone all outstanding or undecided items of the agenda to one of the future meetings. Tomorrow, at nine o’clock, the College will meet and decide which points will be included in an extraordinary meeting, which has already been announced. At 10 a.m., a State assembly would meet and address those points at an extraordinary meeting tomorrow, which are important for the implementation of the deadline. I think this is the best decision in this situation. Please take note to do so. I'd like to break the 9th item of the agenda first. I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: 8, 9, 10, 10a, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. I propose, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, that those points should therefore be postponed to one of the following meetings. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, this proposal may be presented by the groups of Members. The debate of Members is not possible. Does he want any word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Therefore, as no one wants to discuss this proposal, I am also putting this proposal to the vote. Please identify yourself to him. 49 present. For 44, 2 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the 11th session. So tomorrow, at nine o'clock, we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the national assembly. We'll set the agenda for the emergency session. We have informed Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament about it, and at 10 a.m. we have started an extraordinary meeting and have thus fulfilled our obligations in respect of the last month. Thank you very much.
