ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	I invite you to the Assembly Hall to continue the third session. My colleagues and colleagues will be grateful if they check the volume of their portable phones again. They're in the way of those who speak. I also invite the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Chamber and welcome him to his arrival. My fellow Members and fellow Members are kindly invited to come to the main hall of the National Assembly to continue the meeting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I think we can get started soon. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following colleagues and colleagues - according to the list it is known that the holiday time is: Davorin Terčon, Dr. Miha Brejc, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Roman Jakič, Maximilian Lavrinc, Jože Jerovšek, Janko Weber, Bogomir Vnučec, Feri Horvat, Lidija Majnik, Franc Sušnik, Victory Jelinčič, Janez Janša, Roberto Battelli, Maria Possonec, Aloz Peterle and colleague Alexander Merlo. The others should be present at the hall. I welcome everything and ask that by inserting a card into the voting apparatus we determine the presence in the hall. I note that 49 colleagues and colleagues are present in the Chamber, that the National Assembly is concluded and that it can decide. We continue our third regular session. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovska, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone. Today's continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the adjourned 1st item of the agenda, these are questions and initiatives by Members and Members. The first two questions of the opposition MPs will be answered by Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek. In doing so, I should remind you that a colleague from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Zmago Jelinčič, insisted on asking the government a question at the beginning of this meeting and he received a partial oral question and he will receive a written reply in this respect. There is no way to ask questions again to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister may, if he so wishes, complete the reply given by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but he does not need to do so because the Government has made a promise of a written reply. Thus, the Prime Minister will answer the remaining two questions sent by the opposition. In the course of the meeting, the assembly will move on to the 26th item of the agenda, which is, on the proposal for a bill on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, then to the consideration of the 6th item, which is a proposal for a maritime code, and then to the consideration of the remaining items of the order. With regard to the announced further treatment of the 4th point, this is the proposal of the aviation law, I inform you that the assembly will not perform it today because there are no harmonisation amendments. With regard to the suspension of the 5th item, I am informing you of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics that this law will be dealt with tomorrow at its meeting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting to all with a desire for good work today and to the end of this session. We're going to break it down. At the time of the day, it is on questions and wakes up messengers and messengers. The questions sent to Prime Minister Drnovsku will be put on behalf of the two Marko Diaca parliamentary groups and later Aloise Sok. Comrade Marko Diaci, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. First of all, I'd like to say hello. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the well-respected National Assembly! I will ask the question of the legal status of Unicef in Slovenia and the voluntary contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to Unicef. An agreement was signed between UNICEF and then the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia on 20 November 1947, with which a special status was established in Yugoslavia. The Agreement, inter alia, provided in its Article 6, that the activity of Unicef in the FLRJ area is exempt from all customs duties, taxes, taxes and other duties. In Article 3, the Black Constitutional Act for the Implementation of the Basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia ensures that international treaties concluded by Yugoslavia relating to the Republic of Slovenia are in force in the territory of Slovenia and that the Government has not included that agreement in the review of international treaties relating to Slovenia and has therefore not been included in the instrument on the notification of international treaties to other Contracting Parties. In several discussions held by the Slovenian Committee for UNICEF with representatives of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Office of the Prime Minister, the possibility for the Republic of Slovenia to conclude a new agreement with UNICEF was also considered. The first basis for the preparation of the agreement has already been prepared by Unicef. The unresolved status issue is likely to result in a low voluntary contribution from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to UNICEF. According to Article 26(26) of the value added tax law, the Slovenian Committee for Unicef is still exempt from the tax, but only in the area of direct sales. Slovenian National Committee 20% of Unicef's products sold themselves, the other 80% sold to distributors. The poor pay of this successful system of sale and disposal of funds for UNICEF is precisely that sales through intermediaries prevent value added tax exemptions, as the law provides that humanitarian organisations are exempt from value added tax on goods and services only if the collection of money is solely for the benefit of the organisation and if such exemption is unlikely to lead to distortion of competition. Until the introduction of the value added tax, the Slovenian Committee for Unicef was fully exempt from the traffic tax on the sale of Unicef's products, and since its introduction it has paid around 30 million tolls per year, which means a serious drop in the contribution to Unicef. According to Unicef, the most meaningful and appropriate technical solution to this problem would be to provide an indirect tax exemption through the refund of the value added tax paid from the State budget in the form of a voluntary contribution to UNICEF. Sweden, for example, knows such a solution. Despite the fact that UNICEF co-workers and the Slovenian UNICEF Committee with representatives of the country had a number of meetings on the subject last year, nothing has moved to date. This is so much more embarrassing because this autumn the UN General Assembly will hold a special session on children, and Slovenia has also run for membership in the UNICEF Executive Committee for the period 2002-2004. I would therefore like to ask the question of how and when does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to resolve the legal status of Unicef in Slovenia? Second: When is it intended to raise UNICEF's voluntary contribution to an appropriate level? Thirdly, how does he intend to address the issue of the establishment of humanitarian activities when it comes to the indirect sale of goods whose purchase is intended for the activities of humanitarian organisations? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Your Honor! Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I understand this issue as an initiative, as a reminder that we are re-examining the issue of Unicef - the issue of taxation, the issue of the status and benefits of this organization in Slovenia, or the attitude of Slovenia towards Unicef. In the past, when dealing with the various legal projects that were also under consideration in the National Assembly, this topic was obviously not given special or sufficient attention. It is true, however, that there have been some initiatives recently, including at my office, and a meeting in this relationship has already been organised. Some solutions should be verified, probably in line with higher standards in this area, including international practice. In this context, my answer to your question would be that, on the basis of this question of yours, I will request further clarifications, answers and suggestions on how to settle this area properly in the shortest possible time, and such an answer will be submitted to you, Mr Member, and also to the National Assembly, the government will initiate those proposals that would then address these open questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Do you have a further question, Comrade Diaca? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. The second and final question to the Prime Minister will be raised on behalf of the New Slovenia Group by colleague Alojz Sok. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, other representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to ask Drnovsku a question regarding the telecommunications law. We are aware, or you are aware, that in September 2000, the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk introduced into the parliamentary procedure a law on telecommunications, which also contained provisions on the return of investments in the development of telephony. Both natural persons and local communities, which were under contracts between 1974 and 1997, either with local communities or under contracts with the then PTSD, invested money in the construction of telephones, should receive a certain amount of compensation. The law provided that the liable person for the return of the Republic of Slovenia would be reimbursed to investors the difference between the price of the telephone connection today and the price paid at the time for the acquisition of the telephone connection. The amount shall be calculated on the basis of the German mark’s exchange rate, on the day of payment, and then converted back to the tolars on the return. The amount shall be paid within 12 months of the adoption of this Act or after the ownership of Telekom, the privatisation of Telekom. So all these provisions in the current telecommunications law are missing, so I ask you, Prime Minister of Slovenia Drnovšek: Has the government's policy changed on this issue, or has it been possible for our citizens, who, in some areas, especially in the countryside, paid for - forgive me to express themselves in German brands, but that is how these contracts were drawn up - who have paid some 7,000 German Marks and more, or can these citizens expect to receive a refund in the privatisation process of Telekom? I will be very grateful to you, Dr. Drnovšek, for the clear answer to this question and I think you will also be grateful to our citizens who expect a return from this title. I know that certain ministers of your government do not favor this return, but I am very interested in your position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Your Honor! The government has decided to limit the telecommunications law, which is in the procedure of the National Assembly, to functional telecommunications issues. However, the return of the inputs you have been talking about would have been resolved in the context of the privatisation of Telekom and, presumably, by special law. It is true that there were a lot of debates, different views, in the end, also to the position of the Constitutional Court. It is understandable that the State is, of course, difficult to assume a variety of obligations in many areas and maintains some consistency of public spending, but in the end, and I think it is justified, to take the view that this issue is open and that it is, therefore, obvious, in the view of the Constitutional Court, also a legal basis, but that, as in other similar cases, it must be resolved in the framework of privatisation and ensure adequate reimbursement of funds or appropriate participation in Telekom's assets, that is, through a specific law, through a special solution that will solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Do you have an additional, supplementary question? Please, Juice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Yes, thank you very much. Since the Prime Minister did not answer the question of what the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could expect from this title, he replied in particular in general that this could be resolved by law. Of course we all know that. But I would like to hear from you, Dr. Drnovšek, quite specifically. So I mentioned some numbers, I can tell you more. In one of our Slovenian municipalities, it was calculated that anyone who acquired a telephone from 1997 to 1990 [[?]] , paid for this connection 3,000, excuse me, German stamps. That is how these contracts were drawn up. Given that this is a very topical issue, I propose that, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly decide to hold a public debate on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, last time we concluded this item on the agenda, I pointed out that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the two parliamentary groups, the Socialists' Group and New Slovenia, there is no possibility to request these rights at the next meeting. This right shall belong to the parliamentary groups at each other's meeting of the national assembly. Would you like to explain your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I just want to make it clear that I am proposing this as a Member, not as a Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Nice to meet you. It's the same thing. You're asking these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	If I can read it. Excuse me. So Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure states: "The Member who has asked the question of a Member may propose that the government's response be discussed in the National Assembly. Whether and when the debate is held shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion and without explanation of vote. Any Member may propose when the debate should take place. The debate may be held first after 48 hours from the adoption of the decision." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	I would suggest to the National Assembly, otherwise it must, of course, decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order to make this debate likely to take place at the next meeting. Given that it would be more appropriate for the government to draw up some starting points and some clear solutions that are already in preparation and, of course, provide appropriate answers. Today I can repeat about the answer I have already provided. So there is, of course, a reason, there is a willingness of the government to present appropriate legal solutions to the national assembly that will decide on this. Of course, today, as Prime Minister, I cannot speak in advance of what kind of law the government will submit, because it must be submitted to the appropriate Ministry of Government. The government decides on this and, of course, the Prime Minister has these coordinating powers. However, and certainly on the basis of yours, including today's question, I may demand that this proposal and this debate, of course, be held as soon as possible and that the government submit this solution to the national assembly as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I take it you refer to the first paragraph of Article 29, not the second. He said that the Member who asked the question could propose that the government's response be discussed in the National Assembly and that the State Assembly, without discussion and explanation of vote, decide whether and when a debate on the question of the Member State should be held. Before voting, I ask you, you have a proposal to discuss when most would have decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I also agree with this proposal, Dr Drnovšk, that this debate be held at the first next meeting, if I have understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Good. Then you suggest that we discuss this, still in accordance with Article 29(1)? Okay. This will then be decided now by a vote without explanation of vote by the National Assembly. We are therefore voting on the proposal of Mr Sok's fellow Member to decide on this question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting! There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 21 votes against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that your proposal, Comrade Sok, has not been accepted. Mr Prime Minister, I thank you for your presence at this item on the agenda. I also conclude this agenda item. I'm moving, in accordance with our work arrangement, to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the third defensive proposal for a bill on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government if he wants a word on this. Please, you have the floor for the speaker, Dr. Pirkmeyer. Please, you have the floor. I'm asking everyone else for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a fund for compensation for victims of war and post-war violence - it is ready for third treatment, that is for final decision. There is also a series of amendments. Before communicating the Government's position on individual amendments, I would like to remind you that this concludes very long. The draft law for first reading was adopted by the government in April 1995 and since then this law of Roma from one national assembly to another, today you are the third national assembly to decide on this and, I hope, will also make a final decision. The Third Treatment Act was submitted by the Government in July 2000 and then the new government was identified in January 2001 until some amendments were tabled. It is worth noting, however, that the content of the law is quite complex due to the number of amendments that have been tabled on this rather sensitive subject. The positions that were then reached in agreement between the parliamentary groups and then confirmed by the Committee on the Economy, which is the parent body, follow certain principles. The first principle that led to the drafting of the law from the outset is the principle that it is a law on compliance with the implementing law, which is to say that this law does not recognise the new right of victims of war and post-war violence. Of this principle, the drafters of the law in the current phase have partly withdrawn and have also accepted the National Assembly when it comes to questions of certain categories where the status of war or post-war violence was not recognised in the laws in force at that time. This position has now been changed by the final government and, I think, in this area, it has also reached a consensus with the majority in this National Assembly, in order to limit the circle to those whose status has been recognised by three basic laws, whose implementation is left to the law on compensation for war. It has also been agreed, and I think that your mother's working body has also proposed appropriate conclusions to you if the need to extend the circle of beneficiaries, to do so through basic laws and not by the law on payment of war compensation. This matter is also important for procedural reasons, as the law seeks to ensure that compensation is paid as soon as possible. This means that when compensation is paid, the eligibility of individual categories would not be re-examined. The second open question concerned the amount of compensation to be paid to individual beneficiaries. This is summed up in Article 10 of the Law and after the last discussion in the home labour body, which is also in line with the Government's position, it is a matter of determining the range of beneficiaries or determining the amounts of compensation for individual beneficiaries as set out in the second treatment proposal. By leaving behind the discussions and debates that took place in the preparation of the proposal for a third hearing. The third point I would like to point out, which is the subject of a number of amendments, concerns the method of payment. The alternative proposed by the Government to the National Assembly is that the compensation is paid in two instalments of 150,000 tolls in cash, the first meal in January 2002 at the latest, and the second meal in twelve months thereafter, it is said, in 2003. This is an important compromise, which has been achieved not to overstep the burdens of the state budget in the near future, says 2001. Bonds shall be issued for the remainder [[This is also an old proposal.]] which are paid at an interest rate of TOM + 1% and are expected to be paid from 15 September 2004 to 15 September 2008, when the last meal is settled. The new point is that bonds are handed over as soon as possible, but at the latest with the first instalment, this is in January 2002. Another set of issues, which was not as controversial for the proposer as it had been for some parliamentary groups within the National Assembly and also for the Law Service, was the question of inheritance of rights. The variant before you suggests that compensation be granted to any beneficiary who has acquired the status of victim of war violence and that this right be inherited. This means that whoever has filed a claim for the status of the victim of war violence in due time under the laws in force and has been granted this status, and thus, according to the law on victims of war and post-war violence, compensation is considered only for the purposes of calculating the compensation, it is said that this compensation belongs to him, but if he died during that time, of course, it goes to the legacy mass from which he then inherits. One more, and this is last but not least, an important issue that was present at the third reading in particular - this is the question of whether the cumulation of rights from our laws and laws adopted by some foreign countries is permitted [[I am thinking of Germany and Austria in particular.]] . Here were the views quite different and proposals of the law before you, the bill itself prohibits cumulation. He won't let her. However, amendments have been tabled to fix this, and the government has withdrawn reservations to the draft at its last meeting, so that you can count on it to be, so the government supports the deletion of this provision. The sum shall be limited to a person’s payment of EUR 2 million. This provision was sometimes opposed, but remained at second and third reading. And the proposer proposes to the National Assembly that it also accept it as such. When we follow the law in its final stage, just before it is adopted, I would point out once again that it is a matter of compensation for symbolic compensation. For the proposer is aware that with these compensations no sorrow has been paid from the past, but some tribute has been given to the victims of war and post-war violence. The sums, as it is said, all below 2 million tolars, are not comparable to what an individual has suffered and perhaps even with the suffering that individuals still carry with them. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this relatively small amount of compensation is worth a lot. It's 45 billion tolars, maybe a billion less. What does that mean? Let me remind you that the family transfers envisaged for 2001 are 80 billion in size, that is to say a little less than twice the amount of this compensation. That these are the costs of our justice for two years. This is what the annual costs of justice are like over 20 billion, but this is about 45 billion. That this is a four-time budget for the Ministry of Health. It is for four years for the Ministry of Health, including assistance to those who are not covered by health insurance. Finally, the annual programme is foreseen for the 2002 motorway, pardon 2001, amounting to 28 billion tolars. It is therefore large amounts, including for these damages, but the government considers that this is a suitable compromise, on the one hand, between the recognition of the suffering of the past generation and the possibilities of the present generation, that there is some intergenerational agreement on how these things are aligned. Allow me to ask you in the end to support the marriage. I will only participate in the debate on individual amendments if I am specifically invited or challenged to do so, or I ask you to support the law and thus complete its long journey through the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. He wants to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body, is that the Committee on the Economy? You want a word? Mr. Kavčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	This marriage was one of the tougher laws. We spent a lot of time on the board. We have also had many consultations outside the regular sessions, both with government representatives and with representatives of beneficiaries under this law. We have tried to maintain an appropriate distance in all this communication, yet we have sufficient understanding for the victims of the war and postwar violence to which this law is intended. This law was supposed to be only a technical, enforceable law of the three basic laws, but we had to go into all the details of this law when dealing with it. A compromise was reached on the Committee on the Economy at its last meeting, including in the presence of representatives of beneficiaries, which probably did not leave any participants with a sense of full satisfaction. However, I think it was clear to all of us that the conclusions adopted by the Committee on the Economy are the compromise that makes it possible to implement this law as quickly as possible and which also represents the maximum possible financial range of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2000 and beyond. With this law we have touched on very delicate topics, consensus between past generations and generations to come. It was necessary to reflect on the position of a creative compromise among beneficiaries under this law, which makes it clear that even greater financial compensation than this law foresees can never recover the suffering they have experienced and, during our generation, the generations that are coming, which, however we look at things, will pay for the consequences of this law. Therefore, this law, of course, must also be seen from the point of view of the intergenerational compromise. In the latter phase, a more significant financial impact was achieved by negotiating with the Government to agree to the abolition of cumulation, which burdened this bill with 7 billion tolars, while the financial liquidity parameters, both the cash part of the payment under this law and the bonds, were adjusted to the maximum budget options of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore propose that, my fellow Members and colleagues, we support this law, together with the amendments of the committee, because this is the only way we will be able to make the best possible contribution in the situation in which we have contributed to the compensation provided to the beneficiaries under this law by the basic three laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Kavčič, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the National Assembly. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore give the text to the representatives of the groups of Members. There's two of them reported. First, colleague Brenčič on behalf of the SLS + SKD of the Slovenian People's Party and after him colleague Potrč on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here is also the application of colleague Ašič on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, by this law we are materializing the rights conferred on the beneficiaries as compensation rights by the so-called war laws, namely the law on war violence, the law on the correction of injustices and the law on the special rights of victims in war for Slovenia. The SLS + SKD Group certainly supports this law. It supports that the law is finally adopted and the high expectations that we have given birth to in the beneficiaries are also fulfilled. For us in the parliamentary group, the adoption of this law, in particular and primarily the moral act of the present State of Slovenia, is to pay financially to victims who suffered the suffering and violence of the invader during the Second World War, the violence of the regime immediately after the war and beyond in his reign and to the victims of the war for Slovenia to some extent meet expectations, although it is certain that for some beneficiaries the sum that this law gives him for the violence suffered is low. However, we do not support the recognition of compensation for individual categories of violence on such a common scale as to condition the amount of necessary money from the State budget, which exceeds our public financial capacity or therefore reduces the necessary and much more justified and necessary social support to the current active population, which also provides that money in the State budget, or also to the account of non-implementation or reduction of the implementation of the necessary investments necessary for the public functioning of the society. It is necessary to say that "gross", but indeed "gross" of all money in this fund only contributes to the state budget. It is therefore inadmissible to intervene in the third reading in the law or in the concept of the law, as it does in the case of the third reading. the deletion of Article 17 and thus a huge additional burden on the budget. This sum exceeds 7 billion -- just so we know what we're talking about. In the parliamentary group, we will be pleased to support the law, despite the fact that this represents a heavy budget burden and that it is an expenditure that more or less encourages consumption and not saving, and that it is essentially money to children and grandchildren of victims or beneficiaries. We will support the law, regardless of the state or active population of the present state of Slovenia, which has not caused any suffering and violence to victims, especially the victims of the occupation in World War II. But, of course, especially through the victims of the war for Slovenia, this country has also been born, so if this country has a duty to anyone, it certainly has to do with the victims of the war for Slovenia. We will support the law as a major moral act of this country to its citizens, who are in the circle or among the beneficiaries of these war laws and, after all, after the material compensation provided for in this law. We reject amendments that the government does not support, and in particular the amendment to Article 17, which I will talk about later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. I give the floor to my colleague Ptræ, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, after which he will be given the floor of his colleague Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wish, and I expect, to complete today a long-term, sensitive and human work, which we have already begun in a very remote year in 1995. The law therefore has a long way to go, which has been constantly followed by many of the dilemmas of lawmakers, us, Members and Members, and above all the legitimate expectations and dissatisfactions of victims of war and post-war violence, since the law has not been definitively adopted for so long. Before this meeting, I have reviewed once again the many documents and calls we have received from Members in this law. I'd almost hope to say we didn't get them from anyone else anymore. In them, societies and individuals begged us to adopt the law as soon as possible. Among the most numerous were letters from the societies of exiles of Slovenia, including calls and letters from the society of stolen children, associations of victims of the occupation, associations of national liberation fighters, associations of associations of disabled people of the wars of Slovenia, associations mobilized into the German army, associations of military prisoners of the old Yugoslav army and so on. With proposals to supplement the law, we have been warned that we should fairly and objectively categorize the victims of war by group of beneficiaries, that we should not mix the rights guaranteed by this law with payments for forced labour from foreign funds, that we should properly assess the difference in the suffering of individual people, and that we should justly define the differences in the level of resources, and, above all, that people who, due to their age, can no longer expect a long life will be compensated for the end of the suffering between and directly after the war, as they will never receive it. This tells us that we were also Members before a difficult test and a difficult task. It is indeed very difficult to judge the amount of compensation that is to evaluate physical and mental suffering or the consequences that an individual has experienced for the death of his fellowman, since it is the various fates of people who have gone through war and some directly after it, through the physical and mental suffering that is embedded forever in their lives and their memories. This grief cannot even be evaluated, and even less can be paid with money. Therefore, the complexity and moral sensitivity of this law is so great. However, I think that, although late, we have come up with the right and patient solutions that we can confirm and accept today. They will not be fully satisfied by all beneficiaries of compensation, not everyone will think that we have found the solutions they expected, not all will feel fair and objective, both with regard to the classification of individual groups and the level of compensation, as well as with regard to the dynamics, manner and start of payment of compensation. But what we have managed to achieve is what we can accept. The content is also much better than the solutions we would have taken at the end of the previous term. The proposed solutions in the amendments of the Committee on the Economy and in the amendments of the other proponents supported by the Committee are, except in the case of a real amount of the interest rate on bonds formulated without a vote against, with the agreement of the Government and without serious opposition from the representatives of beneficiaries on the home working body - this is the Committee on the Economy. That is why I really expect, and I want us to adopt the law today with great agreement and without opposition. If we don't do this, we'll split up again, negotiate and coordinate, and we'll never find any ideal solutions. In doing so, we will all feel uncomfortable and uncomfortable, and the humane and justifiable purpose of the law will no longer be achieved. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! At all stages of the adoption of the law on victims of war violence, the law on the correction of injustices, as well as the law on the fund for the payment of war compensation, the Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats and I personally have committed ourselves to a great deal. Our commitment has been given to your attention, as well as to the attention of those affected, sometimes to praise, as well as to criticism. We have also worked hard at many solutions, which are now the contents of the text prepared. In particular, that the circle of beneficiaries does not extend by law and that the rights of individuals to obtain compensation from abroad for forced labour are not compensated by the beneficiaries under this law. We have also worked very hard to create the final content of the law to the greatest extent possible by the representatives of the beneficiaries and to enable them to understand the situation and responsibility the State has for all its priorities and obligations in terms of financial capacity. We are pleased that all of this is now a common agreement between all of us, including the governments. Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore be supported by law. We must say, even with pleasure. We will vote for its harmonised content. In doing so, we want legislation and other activities aimed at correcting injustices to be completed as much as possible by adopting this law. And in order for Members and Members, political parties and the public to focus even more on the tasks that can provide us with progress and development, knowledge, creativity and employment for all, especially young people, equal and effective participation in the society of democratic countries in Europe and the world. Finally, through the representatives present today, allow me to wish all the beneficiaries of this law plenty of health so that they can exercise the rights conferred on them by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by counterpart Jože Ašič, followed by the DeSUS Group by counterpart Delak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Nice greeting, Mr. President. Dear fellows, my fellows, welcome to you as well. Nice greeting also to guests in the Chamber who accompany the work of Parliament at this important point in the agenda. Only a few colleagues among you are those who will be extremely fortunate to be involved in all three stages of the adoption of the law. In one term in the first reading, in the second reading and in the current third reading. I think that very few laws have been adopted by Parliament in such a time period. That is why we can be so much more happy that we finally have this point ahead of us and that we can rightly expect the law to be adopted today. And this was adopted at a level for which we had to harmonise, so to speak, the demands and expectations of beneficiaries under this law or by laws which are the legal basis for the adoption of the law on the Fund for the Remuneration of War and Post War Damage, and, on the other hand, of course, between the state, between state finances, among the public spending which is, of course, the one that is also and most important to us in everyday life and work. I think that this law is a real compromise and a generation agreement, as has already been highlighted today, and that it will at some symbolic level settle what has not happened for decades. Not to exiles, not to refugees, not to children stolen, not to all other beneficiaries under this law, or to the laws adopted by Parliament in relation to the correction of injustices, by correction or compensation to victims of war violence and so forth. When we received the Third Reading Act, or amendments to the Committee on the Economy, which I believe made the greatest effort to deal with today, and when the first information on the solutions came to the so-called base, if we can call it, among the exiles, among the other beneficiaries, there was a great deal of effort, and I myself was extremely fortunate that at that time I was in the four general assemblies of the exiles in the middle from which I come, and where, of course, this dilemma, as it was then, was always present between us. Too little, too long, too little, it's not right, but on the other hand, of course, fear, but what if we exaggerate in demands and this law will not even experience its happy ending at this meeting and today when we deal with it. And of course this compromise had to be found here. On the basis of these few discussions, even four Members of our Group have proposed that the President or the leaders of the Group of Members should be re-examined and assessed as to whether anything could be done and done last week. We also held this hearing within the parliamentary group last week, Thursday evening, as this morning again and came to a common conclusion that in fact the maximum possible solutions presented by the law and the amendments agreed on by the Committee on the Economy. We were very pleased to inform you that today the amendments and the law itself were also dealt with by the administrative body or committee of the largest group represented by the society of the exiles of Slovenia, and I was very pleased to inform you that they, in fact, also think that they are dissatisfied with certain solutions, that they will be even more dissatisfied if we do anything in this House today than to support and adopt the law. And I think that's the right thing to do, and that's what this debate has been leading to. The truth of the matter needs only to be said that the most important part of the marriage remains and that there may be some improvement. That the amounts of the compensations determined remained the same as agreed in the second reading. That a pension that means only monthly income to many of the expelled persons in later years remains a non-exclusive right and does not dry up after the beneficiary has received compensation under this law. That, after all, the Committee also supported the deletion of Article 17, which would now exclude the right to obtain compensation from foreign funds and or our fund. In short, these damages will not be taxed. This is what I think is the achievements that we have achieved in the second reading with difficulty and have also been able to defend together and lead to the adoption of the law in the third reading. For this reason, of course, our parliamentary group will fully support the law and support all those harmonised amendments that have mainly emerged within the Committee on the Economy. On behalf of the Group of Members, I also thank all the beneficiary organisations. First of all, I should mention the society of exiles of Slovenia, which with its 19,000 members [[I think that's the number.]] It leads to an active and also patient attitude towards the slowness of solving this problem, probably in principle: whoever walks slowly comes a long way. I think it is precisely the society of exiles and other organisations that is also grateful that the story, which has been going on for many years, will finally be concluded in the Slovenian Parliament. Probably to the satisfaction of all of us who have participated in all these stages. Once again, this law will only be symbolic, although for a country in large amounts, and for individual beneficiaries we will only symbolically acknowledge all the suffering that has been experienced in various forms between the second and the second world wars by many Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by my colleague Delak and will be given the floor of my colleague Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable National Assembly! I express the great satisfaction of our Group of Members that we have finally come to the third reading of the law. It has been many years since this issue was addressed, both in the National Assembly and in civil society organisations, both in the government. We finally have a marriage ahead of us. On this occasion, I think it is necessary to express our thanks to the Members of the National Assembly - it has been said that in three mandates this matter has been dealt with - which have advocated that we have finally reached this stage, civil society organisations, as well as individuals who have sent a large number of letters, requests, proposals, sometimes even personally colored, but also beyond the concept that the law somehow enforces, but with some desire to resolve this problem. It's a shame that the individual categories weren't more uniform. It is probably known that the individual categories of people to whom this compensation belongs were performing separately from each other. Well, that seems like a shame to me, but it's over now. I would like to mention here that similar trends are taking place elsewhere in the world. Look, Germany, I'm not talking about Austria, where there was no speech a few years ago to raise any compensation funds, Switzerland, where banks are opening up, not even saying that these matters are being discussed in the Far East. So this is a general trend and a different atmosphere than was possible a few years ago. I would like to join the Secretary of State, who initially said that this was not actually a real compensation, despite the fact that the law says it is a compensation. It is not because it simply cannot be the compensation, as such compensation for an individual cannot be calculated. The fate of an individual and his suffering are very different. For this reason, we must take note that these are some amounts, agreed upon, if so expressed, which, of course, cannot in any way reflect the suffering of an individual. At the end of this implementation, I would just like to give a warning, which, of course, does not apply to us at this point in time. And let us also be aware of - never again any war. DeSUS, the Group of Members, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Delak. I give my word to my colleague Janez Drobnič, and he will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. He'll be given the word of his colleague, Andrej Vizjak. Please, Comrade Petty Officer!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nicely greeted. I would like to express the views of the New Slovenia Group on the adoption of the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. Earlier, the speaker told me that it was good for us to accept all of this from a critical distance. I think the time for a critical distance is long past. This can't be a serious "critical distance" comment. Most of those who would have been entitled to such compensation on the basis of this law or basic laws and this implementing law have already died. It is the crisis of this law and the crisis of our society that it has not previously been able to speak and act and do it with dignity. The law should have been adopted at least 10 years ago. There was enough critical distance. I believe there were a lot of groups involved. In the end, well, that's the law we're adopting. But it would be a rule that "many grandmas, skinny kids." Finally, we received something that, in my opinion and in the opinion of colleagues from Nova Slovenije, was something else, such as a draft of the first law and a draft of the first law, especially if we associate it with other laws that give a fundamental right to pay compensation. In general, those who have actually received something under other laws will be paid. We can't avoid that. We've also included civilians with disabilities in the wars and in the wars of the disabled. I compensate and rehabilitate these people, to whom, at human and social level, I do not challenge them. However, we need to ask ourselves about the principle of equality. In fact, there are categories that won't get anything out of this marriage. First of all, I'm talking about the 12, 15 or, I don't know, how many thousands of people killed after the war. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these people, including their relatives, will gain nothing. I repeat, nothing. The one who killed directly after the war. This basic law on the correction of wrongs is written in such a way that only those entitled to a family pension are justified. And that's because of the logic of things that can't meet these conditions. So it's actually one phenomenon of empty compensation rights. We're not going to be able to avoid this, this fact, however we turn. So, say, they did their job, we did these damages, they're going to cost us about 45 billion. And let's hang that on a young generation. When we say it, we have to say it clearly. This young generation will not even give a toll for compensations that would belong to them according to the standards of righteousness. Individuals or their relatives, close to these murdered persons immediately after the war. In the end, we also have in the law on pension and disability insurance a diction for participation in revolutionary periods is recognised special forms of pension allowances and other privileges. This, of course, relavates this law, which is supposed to somehow make clean with this history. It's so hard to say that there are symbolic awards. For some, they may not, perhaps, be welcome in additions, such as those already assigned. Nothing for the others. From the point of view of justice, I'm going to ask you a question. What difference does it make between a stolen child, for example, when he was 2 years old, 3 years old, 4 years old, stolen by a fascist terrorist, or stolen by a child after the end of a war in the sense of revolutionary violence? As regards the child and the attitude towards compensation and social justice, this is totally irrelevant. This law, or law, on the correction of injustices, or the law on victims of war violence, makes this difference. So we fell on the basic criterion of equality of persons and that's not good. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bajuk government, has drafted amendments to remedy these problems and the illogicality of the law. Obviously, these initiatives did not come across the right ears, so we have a law that is like that. But it is true that this is an implementing regulation. If it were the will, they would also introduce in this implementing regulation provisions that could solve this matter. The next thing I would point out as problematic is the payments that follow directly - if they follow directly, that is the question. As I mentioned, we're late for marriage. When we look at the definitions of when these beneficiaries or investors will receive funds, it will be difficult, it will be late, and by then, the truth will, lovingly or sadly, die a lot of these beneficiaries, or they will not even reach these funds. The government, with its proposals, is moving this border to 2004. The next thing that would still apply to this - this is, of course, directly linked to the law on the redress of injustices - is that these compensations are enforced under a specific provision, not under the basic rule, the criminal law and the general provisions of this regulation. That's the problem. This, of course, puts these victims back in two different positions: one after the review, i.e. after the criminal procedure, and the other under the law on the correction of wrongs - again a double criterion. Finally, if I sum up, there is no reason to applaud this law, but on behalf of those participants, those beneficiaries, those who have not received it, we are in New Slovenia for the law to be adopted, although as it is. However, we have prepared amendments, which should also improve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. I'm giving my colleague a word. A visionary who will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Following him, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and its counterpart, Barovic, were reported as the last parliamentary group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, respected President of the Society of Eradications of Slovenia, distinguished other guests, representatives of interested groups, respected colleagues and fellow Members! It's been six years since we've adopted this law. He warned that there are already three terms of office of Members and of this National Assembly. I would like to point out that this is an older population which, I would say, is more subject to mortality than the second, younger or middle generation. It is also a symbolic compensation. I don't think it's worth applauding that today this law would have been applauding that this law had been on our benches or on the benches of that composition five years ago. In the negotiations over this period of six years, in particular, the expulsion society, the victims of war-based violence have always been weakened. The government has always been under pressure, if we have to worry about the budget, we have to worry about public finances and it has constantly reduced the amount of compensation and the deadlines have dragged into the future. In the second reading, an extreme compromise was reached, both between government representatives and between representatives of victims of war violence or between representatives of all those entitled under this law. The National Assembly has therefore accepted this compromise in its second reading, and this compromise is not before us today. The current Economic Committee is proposing amendments that we partially agree with in the parliamentary group, but we cannot agree with the two fundamental substantive amendments relating to the payment deadline for the first instalment of compensation. This is said, in general, for the period of payment of compensation, which is being transferred again to the following year, and of course also with the shamefully low interest rate on bonds which will form part of the compensation. I think it is unacceptable that this is already agreed on in the second reading and is once again pressing on this population, this older population, in terms of symbolic compensation. I don't think that's right, it's not right, and we won't support these amendments in the Social Democratic Party. The shamefully low interest rate, the interest on bonds, is called TOM+1, as proposed by the Committee on the Economy, which offers the option of mixing these bonds into the account of symbolic expulsions. Just remember how some mixed their certificates when they walked from door to door and, of course, bought for some symbolic amounts of these certificates. Thus, they will now exploit these various financial moguls and walk and, of course, collect these certificates, pay them 50 percent or less. Why? Because they're shamefully paid and they're not interesting. Mr Pirkmeier, or a government representative, mentioned here that this is a compromise with the budget. Look. We're talking about the law of conformity. The Fund Act speaks of the intentional collection of money for this. According to the data I have gathered in this fund, there are already approximately seven billion tolars in this year, allowing compensation to be paid this year as well. It's about patching up budget holes at the expense of the victims of war violence. It is about filling or filling some of the financial gaps created by this fund with this money that is intended for the victims of war violence. And they're saving again, this generation is saving again, as it's been saving its entire life for a better tomorrow, for a better future. I think, from correctness to this older population and to correctness from, to, the victims of war violence, it would be right to pay this compensation as soon as possible, at least in the symbolic amount already this year. The Socialist Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the law because it knows that it is right and because it knows that, despite the fact that it is long overdue, we will support it. However, we cannot support these amendments, which significantly undermine the way in which payments are made, the payment deadlines and the amount of payments and the interest rate, which has already been agreed upon, and which is now proposed by the Government or the Committee on the Economy in an indirect manner, to break that word. Once again, there is a law before us that is supposed to correct injustices, but it cannot, only corrects them at a symbolic level. That is why it seems very unfair to me, and so in our Group of Members, we also believe that we have only been dragged into this for so long, and now that it is time to call these victims of war violence, you will get money within 30 days of a legal decision, we say, no dear, you will get money in 30 days, but not before, 15.1.2002. This is not right and, for this amendment, the Socialist Group of Members will not vote. It will vote for what is in the basic text of the Third Reading Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. I give my word to my colleague Bogdan Barovich. It will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and will thus exhaust the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Please have your word, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Mr President, the executive branch of the Authority, representatives, the National Assembly, distinguished guests. I'll be very brief. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are not against compensations, pensions to beneficiaries. In the Slovenian National Party Group, however, we oppose the adoption of this and such legislation. Why? First, because we believe that the real victims of war will do so and will not eliminate much and irreparable injustice. Secondly, because we believe that each category of victims should receive their own law based on proven historical facts. Thirdly, because we do not agree in the Slovenian national party's parliamentary group that Slovenians themselves will pay compensation for something we did not do, and our children and our grandchildren will pay it. Fourthly, the compensation under the above-mentioned terms of the bill would be justifiable for victims of war violence if both the Government and the National Assembly were to undertake that they would only be made by the occupying party, with all the legal means allowed, to recover because the damage must be paid by the person who caused it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Only colleague Brenčič applied for the debate available to Members for an unlimited period of time; for all others, in accordance with [[...]] [[The contract from the bench.]] Don't you? Excuse me, with the amendment to Article 17 - will you not discuss it before that? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Any of your other colleagues and colleagues want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the 29 amendments tabled, to the third reading of the proposal for a fund for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. To facilitate the follow-up to this vote, which is, as stated in the performances of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the final of the multiannual effort to address this issue, I propose that we have before us a document, number 26, for the 3rd regular meeting of the national assembly, EPA 1101, of 21 February. In accordance with this list of amendments that have been tabled, we will also decide. May I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to take a good look at their ballots in the voting facilities. I have already said that we will try to agree on a rule at a consultation with the leader of the parliamentary groups, for a particular woman who will then deal with this issue in a self-evident manner; there is no such agreement so far, and until then, this collegiate agreement applies that colleagues have the right to encroach on their neighbour's voting machine. I note that there are 53 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber, that the National Assembly is concluded and that it can decide. In this way, we will go first to the amendment to Article 2, so that the third paragraph of Article 2 is amended as set out below; this is the amendment of the Committee on the Economy. Anybody want to talk about it? [[Nobody.]] 55 colleagues and colleagues voted. The amendment was voted 42, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] That's how the amendment was adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to delete the second paragraph of Article 8. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 8. 57 colleagues and colleagues voted, 53 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] Thus, the amendment to Article 8 has been adopted. In Article 9, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose an amendment after which the second paragraph shall be deleted. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There were 59 colleagues and colleagues present, 50 votes in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment to Article 9 has been adopted. To Article 10, the amendment is proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. The government and the mother's working body support this amendment. It is an amendment to amend the text in Article 10, paragraph 1, as set out below. Anybody want a word? We still have an amendment from the government - sorry - this is the second amendment to Article 10 to amend the second paragraph as set out below in the text of the amendment. Anyone want to talk about the two amendments to Article 10? [[Yeah.]] Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. Because we do not agree with the order in the first paragraph of Article 10. In particular, we will vote against the replacement of the fourth and fifth indents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll decide on the amendments separately. First of all, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We're voting. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted, 55 supported by the proposal, and 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment under order number two, the investor is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted, 57 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] This is how the proposal was adopted. Nine amendments have been tabled to Article 11. We will vote in accordance with the order set out in the list. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Because all of these articles relate to damages amounting to 200,000 tolars, and this is mainly about distinction or every offspring or all of them, if I understand correctly. Let me just say that, according to the information I received from the exiles' society, of course in Zasavje, in 1946, it was calculated that at that time each individual would have to receive compensation in this amount. If this information I received in my conversation with the victims is wrong, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the amendments under order numbers 2 and 5 have been withdrawn. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and decide on the amendments in order. First of all, the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Economy to amend the first paragraph by reading as set out in the text at the end of the other side of your review. We're voting. 61 colleagues and colleagues voted. 40 supported them, 12 opposed him. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand he's been accepted. Amendments under order numbers 2, 3 and 4 have become irrelevant, five have been withdrawn. Objection, Comrade Potsch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I apologize, but the amendment to the government's amendment has become irrelevant. I must say that this is a very important content that we have agreed on because it explains what the implementing content of the War Victims Act is or what the Fund is for the payment of war compensation. Looks like that's the formal way it turned out, so we're just gonna take a hint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	I ask the secretariat for clarification and assistance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Mr. President! In any event, the amendment of the Government for the first paragraph is irrelevant because the amendment of the Committee has been passed. From this point of view, it is also irrelevant, given the formal amendment to the Government's amendment, because it has not been tabled as an amendment to the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Then I remain in the first position that the amendments under numbers 3 and 4 are irrelevant and the fifth is withdrawn. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 6 on the fourth page of our list. Anyone want a word about the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 6 on page 4 of the review. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted. 24 supported them, one opposed him. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On the same page, page 4, we will vote on the amendment under order number 7. It is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to become paragraph 6 of the present third paragraph and is amended to read as set out below. We're voting. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted. There were 53 of them, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 8. It is an amendment to the Economic Committee to add a new last paragraph. The text is written at the end of page 4 in the list. We're voting. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted. 59 supported them, no one opposed them, so it was accepted. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On page 5 of Article 12 we have six amendments tabled. Anyone want a word with the amendments to Article 12? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make the present first paragraph a third paragraph and amend as the text below reads. We're voting. 60 colleagues and colleagues voted. 56 supported them, one opposed him. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2; it is the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting on the amendment. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment was supported by 51, no one opposed it, so it was accepted. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Under order number 3, we have an amendment to the Economic Committee. We vote on the amendment of the Economic Committee. Between the 60 Members present and the Members of Parliament, 56 have supported them, and no one has opposed them, so the amendment under order number 3 has been adopted. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Under order number four, we will decide on the amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on the amendment under order number four. 58 colleagues and colleagues voted on him, 54 supported him, no one opposed him. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment under order number four has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number five on page six of the review. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 59 colleagues and colleagues voted, 52 supported by the amendment, and one opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment under order number five on page six of the review has been adopted. At the end of the sixth page of the review we have the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will vote on it. 59 colleagues and colleagues voted. Among them, 52 supported this amendment, and no one opposed it, so it was adopted. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] On the seventh and eighth pages of the review, we have three amendments tabled under order numbers, with the amendment under order number one, the proposal being withdrawn by the DeSUS Group of Members. Is that right? [[Yeah.]] Anybody want a word? Please, mag. The visceral! He's been followed by a colleague of Kelemin's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. This amendment concerns the essence of my debate on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members. It's about when the first instalment is paid. After the basic text of the law it is 30 or within 30 days of the legislative decision. However, according to the proposal of the Committee on the Economy, this is a similar dictatorship, but not before 15.1.2002. This means that the deadline for the first part of the compensation is moving to the next year and, of course, to the next financial year. I also ask the representative of the government whether he holds the information that some seven billion dollars have already been raised in the war compensation fund and what he intends to do with this money on the basis of not paying the beneficiary under this law. I think it's the deprivation of justice again. I think it's about saving and covering the budget deficit at the expense of the victims of war violence. Therefore, I will certainly support what has been submitted for third reading and we will not support the amendment of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. You have the floor, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your word. Respectable all together. In particular, I welcome, of course, the President of the exiles' society, Mr Deržič, and other representatives of the beneficiaries. I expected the tribunal to be full today, but I am also pleased that at least someone came to follow this law. What I would like to say about this amendment is that, unfortunately, I cannot support this amendment. Indeed, it is a major fraud committed by the current coalition over all beneficiaries. Otherwise, it was said that some agreement had been reached with the representatives of the beneficiaries at the committee meeting. I'm saying it's not like it's a lie. I was on this committee, and the beneficiaries didn't decide anything, but they just sat there and listened and waited for what the members of the committee would decide. So there was no decision on anything and no compromise was reached there. They only got what the Members had decided. It is certainly true that all the deadlines that have already been unreasonable in adopting the same law and all other transfers and extending the payment of compensation to beneficiaries have now been drastically extended into the future. The conditions of all those discussions that we had in the previous term of the National Assembly have deteriorated. The LDS is simply saying that it supports all the amendments that I think are logical to support them because they are to the detriment of the beneficiaries. The United List also supports all amendments that are to the detriment of the beneficiaries. DeSUS also generously supports all amendments that are to the detriment of the beneficiaries. I will not personally support these amendments. If we do not support Article 13 of the amendments, then Article 13 remains the same as in the original law. In fact, it provides a significantly better condition for beneficiaries and, of course, this country would in the most corrective way repay all beneficiaries for all that they have experienced in the interwar period. Many today claim that we have taken nothing from you and we are not obliged to give you anything. With these passwords and these principles, I don't know who can take this right. I don't think anyone else can give more than these people have given up for their country. They have given their lives, their suffering, and all of this reward, which is now shared by them on the basis of the difficult financial situation that reigns in this country, but not by the beneficiaries, not by any victim, but by the one who has managed this country for a decade. I cannot agree with these proposals and, of course, I will also be against it. All I have to say is that even Mr Kavčič, who shares the right and shares in some way the beneficiaries of their fate, has even extended the deadline from, under the second amendment, from 15.9.2001 to 15.1.2002. I'll check in with you at the 14th. I expect from all those from the previous mandate who have previously supported the beneficiaries, both the Joint Lists and DeSUS and all others, that we do not accept the amendment to Article 13 but leave the original text from the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Other colleagues Sok and Ašić applied for the floor. First of all, Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. [[The contract from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	A replica? A replica of Comrade Kelemino? We're dealing with intuition after ten years of internship. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	I think that intuition holds. We cannot support this amendment in our Group of Members either. See, victims of war violence, such as exiles, campers, stolen children, mobilized into the German army in 1941-1945, these victims have been waiting for their right for 55 years. Only if I mention the information mobilized into the German army were 80,000 young Slovenian boys aged between 22 and 24 years. Today, there are some 6,000 more who are entitled to do so. These people are very old today, these people are in those years when they die. We, in our Group of Members, feel that any delay is unnecessary and, in fact, could say, an excuse or, I don't know, a expectation that as few of these people as possible will come to their right. We will not support this amendment and you too, if you really want these people to get what they are doing as soon as possible, we propose and we ask you not to support this amendment, but to leave the text as it is in Article 13 of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Replica, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Yeah, I thought so. So I must tell Mr Visiak, Kelemina and Mr Sok, too, that I am sorry that this is how they try to speak, that it is a deception, that it is a fraud, that it is a seizure of something that belongs to him, and that one you want to give, and the other we do not want to give. Of course, if this were so simple, this law would probably have been adopted in the previous term, if not earlier, at least in the last half year of the previous term. However, because of the complexity of the situation and the effort to make a law that will on the one hand cover all that this law must cover, and pay for what it cannot pay with money, but in spite of all the compensation it provides, and on the other hand take into account the real possibilities of this country, the possibilities that we, of course, define each year with the budget and, of course, with the resources at our disposal. In that part at first sight, when you say yes, it's already seven billion and where that money is, you split it. It's not that simple. As you know, budgetary logic is already such that it is necessary to drive this through the budget as expenditure. That means, clearly, on the other hand, you certainly know that. I just want to say that liberal democracy, in any case, and even in this case, has coordinated this for so long and in such a way that, together with coalition partners, we have come to, and also with representatives of interested and affected organisations, that it is possible, taking into account the needs of the country and, in particular, the recovery of 20 billion unpaid accounts from the last half of the past year, which are the burden of this country and which must be shared, both Members, the government and citizens, in some way to understand what it is. I'm sure the agreement that's been reached is a compromise, and it's unnecessary to point your finger at others, if you give it to me, but they don't, because they're less humane, because they're just as they are. We've arranged these things. I believe that in the same way as has been explained to the representatives of the organisations, a compromise that is not the best that is not good. We'd like to see things done yesterday, not today. But Mr Sok, this law speaks of whether, if it happens to anyone, he will not wait for it or, of course, he is in this situation now, but will not be able to wait for this right to not disappear under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This debate has now greatly extended the list of applicants. In line they will be given the word of esteemed colleagues Ašič, Kavčič, State Secretary Pirkmajer, colleague Potrč, Drobnic, Kelemina and Vizjak. You have a replica? To Mr. Anderlich. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. It's a simple matter, not complicated. But it's, I'd say, the thing is, when are we gonna spend the money? That's the problem, and here's the complication. There is no complication that there are 100 pending cases or that there are fewer or more. It is the government or the ruling coalition that is delaying the payment of this compensation. That's the point, and it's a completely simple thing. It's not a complicated matter. The law makes clear the revenue which is the basis for the payment of the compensation. Those revenues were, I asked what was wrong with them. If the revenues were correct, it is fair that the expenditure is also earmarked. That's what they call the victims of war violence. That's all simple logic. There are no complicated solutions here to justify the six-year story of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Auschwitz, behind him colleague Kavčič. A replica? Comrade Barovich, who are you replicating?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Just for a little while. I refer to point 4 of the presentation of our Group of Members. I don't think there's a problem here, not even the hands, but there's a problem with the money, which, I refer to point 4, should be paid by those who caused the damage. Of course, the question is, If this money was money, we know that in 1946 and 1947 the former country had already been largely paid. Where and where did that money go for the reparations and the victims? So once again, the problem is not the deadline, the problem is not that many will wait. The problem is why Slovenia has to pay for something that it has not done or has not done to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. My friend Kavčič, I'm sorry, colleague Ašič has the floor first. Following him is colleague Kavčič and Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Otherwise, it can also be a replica in some sense. I believe that the debate on Articles 13 and 14 can be as we started when we examined the law, when we assessed the reality of the situation, on the one hand, aware of the fact that it is taking too long to adopt this law, and on the other hand also of course the possibilities afforded not only by the budget but by the whole set of public finances allow. Of course, it is very 'comet', if I may put it this way, to discuss it in the opposition and to say that it is all a mess, because the opposition is also probably convinced that we will adopt the law. Of course, it will also be able to announce how they wanted to achieve more. But that's possible, and that could be in the opposition. Of course, our responsibility is slightly different. Bring in the text of such a law, which will have the required number of votes. My fellow Members know that there are quite a few of us from this area, where there are a large number of beneficiaries. We have led a number of activities towards possible improvements, and we have come to this point where, of course, we must decide to support the law. At the 13th and 14th amendments, he will have to say something else. If the amendments were not adopted, then the law itself is questionable. Read the basic text of Articles 13 and 14, where Article 13 even says that bonds will be payable by the end of this year, and tell me how this can be achieved. If the article is not amended, it says in Article 13, the last paragraph that bonds will be, that is, 40%, payable at the end of the year. Before that, however, we had adopted a procedure under Article 12 that would run until the decision was reached and so on. And we know that the whole process is actually going to catch up this year by the end of the year and that this first meal is not so wrong. The bigger dilemma may be bonds. And second, in Article 14, to touch it, because then I'll be quiet - it says it's paid with TOM + 3%, but already, I think it's 30.9.2000. We need to know where we are and what date [[...]] [[Cell phone ringing.]] it's today, and it's just a year since we adopted the law in the second reading. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Can I interrupt you? Someone's got a cell phone ringing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Both Articles should be amended. Excuse me! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	We're all sorry, but someone's been ringing their cell phone for a while. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	I will conclude by calling on Members to be patient in this and supporting these two amendments if we want to bring the law to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Replica, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I have to replicate, though I don't want to. I have to replicate because it is not fair that if money is deliberately collected and it is done precisely from sources defined by this law, it is not fair that we then refer to something that there is no money and that we have to look after the budget, public finances and so on. That's not fair! If the money is collected and it's money, let's give it to him for that purpose! That's one thing. But the other thing is, it seems extremely unfair to me that under this amendment the issue of the whole law is being raised. I don't think so. I think, if any proportions were broken, the harmonisation amendments should be made or the matter could be dealt with correctly. It's just a simple blackmail to vote against it, in the sense that it would all go down. I stress that I am in favour of this law and will support it in everything, but I cannot be in favour of dishonesty, it is said, for such honesty that the payment deadline, despite the money already raised, is moving to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. That's what we used to exhaust the replicas. I give my word to Mr. Kavčič. Mr. Kelemina, you have the floor later if there's no replica. Please, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, Slovenians have their own country for several centuries, and when foreigners are watching us, they're wondering why you're not a little bit more positive, why you're so biting each other. But today's discussion beautifully illustrates this breadth of views and illustrates also the completely logical interpretations that go in the direction, give less money, then the elaborates that have logic, give more money, give more money, give more money, these things, these considerations should be tried to combine. [[...]] Of course, we did not go in the direction of shortening, but what Mr Vizjak said was not fair is worth explaining. It is only necessary to understand that the budget, of course, has its own income and liquidity aspect. This means that if we want to pay through the budget the money that's been pumped out, we have to find his spending line. And the expenditure items of all six years this money, which has actually been raised in budgets that you, respected colleagues with a longer internship, have not yet received. Today we are talking about giving for the first time a legal basis so that this money can go out of budget. There is no place to discuss fair or unfair. Of course, any easy budgeting to play with is logical. I respect the opposition Members to try, of course, to explain their thoughts in this direction. We Members of the coalition, this time, had to make sure that we were within limits, at maximum limits, so that within the limits of the budget next year we found a solution to make this law a reality. This means that the matter will, according to the local word, be "for cingles" with January of next year. And so, of course, if we say, why don't you make TOM plus more interest. This change you've proposed means 1.6 billion dollars more. If we are acting responsibly towards the budget and want to fulfil our obligations, then, of course, we must view these matters this way. This marriage isn't the only one we're trying to fix back with. I don't know if you've taken so much time and calculated how much the denationalization law costs us. The Denationalisation Act imposes this and the younger generations with 4 and a half billion marks. Let's just say everything's justified, everything's clean, but we're gonna have to earn it. And through the budgets of the country of Slovenia, these billions of marks will have to come. Therefore, to some extent we can listen to easy play, why not no longer, why not sooner, but the arguments are that the law with these financial parameters, as proposed by the amendments to the Committee on the Economy, is feasible with these financial parameters and thus reaches the maximum potential of the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Comrade Kavčič. State Secretary Pirkmajer has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I said earlier that three compositions of the National Assembly were involved in this law. There were also two governments and two national assemblies in the preparation of the proposal for a third hearing. If we accepted the rejection of the amendment proposed by the Government in 2001, it would remain a basic text, which, as has already been said, speaks of something that was a consensus in the National Assembly that would not be taken into account. It means that the first meal is paid in 20%, the second meal 40% - 12 months after that - and the third meal 40% in bonds and todo at the end of 2001. This matter was unacceptable, even for the government that addressed the proposal of this law in 2000. The government of Dr. Bayuk. And it has adopted a solution that is also the basis for the amendment proposed by the current government. The text is almost identical, except for the fact that the first meal is not paid before 2002. That is true, but I would also like to say what an alternative was. The alternative was that because it was a law that was supposed to burden the 2001 budget to deal with the law at once with the state budget. This would mean that the adoption of the law would be delayed for several months and that it would undoubtedly have implications for the 2001 budget. After this: the agreement between the government and the parliamentary groups, indeed only this time, has then adopted this solution. However, the solution adopted also has an advantage for beneficiaries. In fact, following a proposal adopted by the government in 2000, bonds were to be handed over as a third instalment of compensation. Now the bonds are to be delivered with the first meal, which is certainly more favourable for the beneficiaries. However, I must, of course, confirm that it is true that funds have been made in accordance with the rules. According to the Ministry of Finance, by the end of last year it was 5,759 billion tolars. That's right. However, these should also be reflected in the liquidity plan for the 2001 budget. Here we are again at the beginning of the story, where it was just a matter of deciding at the same time as deciding on the state budget. I still feel that it is more beneficial for beneficiaries to adopt the law as proposed by the Government. The alternative, of course, is that - then it is very likely that the law would not be fully adopted, for Article 12 in such a dictatorship as the basic one, but it is not realistic to expect anyone to support it. Probably even today's opposition is the previous position, I couldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Three other colleagues are registered for discussion at Article 13. In order of course, my colleague Potč, Petty Officer and Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It would be good to recall our joint work, not only the coalition, but also the opposition, on the working body, when we formed the amendments. I've recorded all the votes, and you can go watch them after the magnetogram. Only one point, and this is about whether the real interest rate should be one percent, as it now says in the proposal, or three percent, was the vote of colleagues and colleagues present different. The vote was 5:4, the proposal for three percent was not voted on. In all other cases, there is no proposal, no proposal adopted has been voted against. No, not at all. Members of the opposition also did not oppose the proposed solutions. This means that you have not, I would say, from the meeting of the committee to today, to a new understanding, or this does not mean that you would not feel that it is more important for you to talk at a meeting of the national assembly than to say the things that are desirable, as it is for you to actually assess the situation at the meeting of the home working body; and above all, it is for the latter. But I would like to say, because of our common knowledge, that, in my opinion, it is only right if we are looking at the law with the changes that we are proposing in full. That is, if we are looking at: not only the amount of compensation that has been partially altered since the second reading; if we are looking at the payment deadlines that have been changed; if we are looking at the fact that today 7,000 beneficiaries will fully accept compensation under the law and compensation due to forced labour in the countries of Austria and Germany, which would not be the case if the law were passed in July, that we have now included in the law the right to receive for the deceased heirs the right to use the funds; that the payment, as Mr Pirkmajer said, would be done immediately with the payment of the first instalment. And in the end, it's very right to say something else. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the law will, let's say, come into force happily perhaps there on March 15th, what day later, and that decisions will then have to be issued. And we probably all know that a significant number of decisions will not be issued within 14 days or within one month, but that it will take a few months for the decisions to be made. And those of the beneficiaries I have talked to so far have told me that this is also a possible argument for a fairer payment of the first instalment, that, hopefully, a large majority of all beneficiaries within the next six months, seven months or three quarters of the year will be able to obtain decisions and that payment will be possible in this first meal for all at about the same time, not that we will have what happened to us in the war-violence law. When we are five years old, we still have some now, two or three years of very intensive criticisms and disputes to the National Assembly, to the administrative units, as well as to each other, among the victims of war violence who were able to gather data earlier, to reach a decision in the administrative unit, to conduct an earlier audit at the Ministry of Labour and to obtain the right to a pension, and the rest were waiting two or three years. Now, I hope and believe, and it would be good to make an effort in the government that decisions are indeed made on an official basis, as is the case, in the next three quarters of the year they issue that the first instalment of compensation will then be paid to everyone at about the same time and that there will be no unnecessary differences at this point. And in the end, just the following. All of us who initially spoke said that marriage was far from ideal. We all said it was too bad it was late. But at the same time, we were told that we felt that we had found some kind of relationship, which is - or some solutions - that are approximately acceptable. I must say once again that I will support them: not in the belief that they are ideal and good, but in the conviction that they are possible and that they are better than those who would be able to accept them under the pressure of the direct elections we were under at the time and the end of the national assembly, better for the beneficiaries as well. Surely not out of pure contentment. I would also, if possible, like Members of the opposition, although I understand them that it is right to defend greater rights, ask them to take into account that, in the light of the obligations we have from the budget, it is necessary to count on real things. As far as the funds are concerned. It is true: we, too, in the debates, including on the committee, have pointed to this. 5.7 "Circa" billion tolars is at the expense of the fund raised. Yes, it is. These funds are only from beneficiaries and from no one else, and must not be used for any other. But: in order to be cooperative, they must be added to the budget plus and minus and accept that the total budget volume will be increased for other purposes, not for other purposes, then also for other purposes, the borrowing of the budget will be increased, and for other purposes, I stress once again, not for these, including the burden, I would say, the income of others will be increased and, unfortunately, we must also deal with this with all the responsibilities of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. There are two more debates ahead of us. Do you have a replica, Comrade Kelemin? I would just like to point out that you are immediately reported after the performance by Comrade Drobnik and I suggest that we also conclude the debate. I give the floor first to my colleague Petty Officer, and then you, no one else, is declared for discussion and we will vote. Please, Comrade Petty Officer!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your word. What's going on right now could be called a muttering. They are funds, resources are not because the Bajuk government is guilty that they are not there, they are in the account, but they are not in the special account. So if the funds are, if they are beneficiaries, if they have decisions issued and are waiting for this law, which is an implementing act, to be paid for, then there is no reason to pay it. In addition, interpretations also appear, "decisions will be issued late". Of course, they'll be issued late, maybe six months, one year, I don't know. This means that we have not taken seriously in this year's budget, that we will do anything and pay on the basis of this law. This is problematic, because everyone - signifying. [[...]] So we can talk about the dignity, the questionable dignity, of this congregation. I agree that, or we do not have much to discuss if we are worthy, then we do what we intend to do and for which we have the means. I am not in favour of using liquidity assets for this purpose for other purposes. Also for massaging or bridging government liquidity problems. So much, purely for a while. That's why I won't support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	First my colleague Kelemin and then my colleague Potch. First of all, my friend Kelemin. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate Mr. Potsch first. Indeed, what he said earlier was that there were no comments on the committee until the 14th article and that we had somehow unanimously supported these matters on the Committee, as much as I had expected, but personally, that in Article 14, if we had already taken them off, we would have made it possible or accepted an amendment with which we would increase the interest rate from 1 to 3, which would have been the only real thing and, at least a little bit, a patch on everything we cheated them on in all the other amendments and articles. However, after we reached this 14th article, this did not happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Article 13 is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	Now I have just mentioned, until article 14, we did not discuss because Mr Potræ had said earlier that there were no comments. It is true that we still agreed with Article 13 - I personally agreed because I expected that we would only be so correct that we would accept in Article 14 something that would at least put a slight patch on everything we cheated them for in the previous amendments. To all the proponents who spoke earlier about the real potential of this country and so on, I would just ask you and say, "Who do you think has made these public finances in this country, and then who is playing with the fate of this country?" Only those who had power in their hands, the opposition certainly cannot mess with the fate of this country because it does not decide anything; you decide everything, and you have made these finances and money, I say, is enough for this project, only if you want to find it. More than 6 billion debts are owed to this country, but there would be another million dollars in it -- because I'm talking about dollars because the external debt is measured in dollars -- and we could take some more credit into this account. But it is very interesting that Slovenia is very generous and very generous and many things we finance and help and disperse with money, when it comes to our own people, to the Slovenians who have suffered, who are entitled to some compensation, but then the matter stops and then we are ready to start saving on their backs and all the reasons, except that it does not have to be paid. Well, and since the beneficiaries are tired of all this fighting, you've been driving them around for so long, you know, in a circle that they're completely tired, and they're out of power today, and they're willing to accept whatever you're offering them, just so the matter goes through. And you, of course, are well aware of that. I firmly believe that the beneficiaries of the next elections will also forget who has cheated them and will be happy to elect you again. It's not at all about wanting to, say, dial some political points or anything else - no, thank you, I hope I won't need them anymore - but I think those people who have given something for Slovenia deserve what we've already promised them in the past. But we promised them more than we give them today. If it is due to the previous members of the National Assembly for the amendments adopted and the content of the law adopted, then it goes to the former. This reference will take those rights, which have already been somehow involved in this law, from below. That's a fact. What you're talking about, Mr Pirkmajer and Mr Auschwitz, I don't think it's the main reason. All of this, of course, is based on, even if you want to end up, you can, if this is not in agreement, change this deadline with some amendment of the secretariat. So that can't be the reason. But the fact is, Mr Pirkmajer, that Article 13 was unacceptable for the government in the previous term, I admit that, and you have always advocated it. You know, in this national assembly the government does not decide, or in this country the government does not decide on these matters, but the National Assembly and the National Assembly will decide, even though the government opposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I am not allowed to cut substantively into the debate, but I would like to point out that the arguments for one or the other decisions are repeated through the replicas. Two have now been reported, Comrade Potsch and Juban. I propose that we then conclude this debate and decide on the amendments. First my colleague Potsch and his colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the content of Mr Drobnik and Mr Kelemina's debate, each replica is pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Comrade Juban! Can you turn off your buddy Potts?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am reporting to my colleague Kelemin's replica because I find his discussion inappropriate, unusual and untasteful and more. This is because the matter is being turned in the wrong direction, not in the solutions contained in Article 13. If we turn the story back a little bit, then it is very unusual for him to advocate for the rights of victims, especially war violence. I agree with violence, one and the other, even postwar. But obviously: we're talking about each other, we're thinking about others, and we're thinking about them in a way that's not appropriate. If the LDS really wanted to keep this law and prevent the victims of war violence from being harmed, this time it has the kind of opportunity it has in view of the result of the elections, as you say, which happened only at the will of the people: and it does not. It was our colleagues, among whom Auschwitz was, and Kavčič, etc., who led solutions in terms of the possibility of the country - what has been said many times and what we have heard in various ways. I'd say something else. But we could have heard a lot of other things from you. I'll draw one alternative. You didn't recognise the awning decisions that solve things like this. And those who caused injustice or gave birth to victims of war violence would be paid twice if they had evaluated my autism findings. But you're not the theme of today's conversation. But something else was going on. If you had taken into account what you accepted as a variant of the victims of violence, that it was not an occupation violence, but a bloody revolution, then it would have been that these people would have gotten nothing. And if there was another result in the elections, it could happen the other way around, as you speak today. And with that in mind, I understand your colleagues are defending options that are better for these victims both, but your way is not good. Because you also had a second option, where you otherwise characterized these people who were victims of Nazi-fascist violence. And it's not good for you to say that you're acting like this and that you're acting differently this time. You and I have different and many letters from people who have been hurt in one way or another. And these people who look under each other's fingers, how injustice has been dealt with, they also remind us of the different stories that have happened, that they've hidden themselves among these victims, even the different ones that I don't want to talk about, which I don't even belong to, especially in postwar times. But let us leave them alone so that they do not commit injustice because of some of the cases that led to speculation among those who have been harmed. And so we have seen the problem that we are solving in a way that is possible in this country and at a time that is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. My colleague Kelemin has applied, as the topic of the awnings has also been mentioned in the debate, and I suggest that we do not continue to discuss it because it is only very, very indirectly subject to this law. Therefore, I suggest that colleague Kelemin not to mention [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much for the words and thank you for the warning, and it would be good if we could warn the previous speaker about that and, of course, I would ask Mr Juban to leave my definition of these questions alone because he does not know what they are, because I have never expressed them in this national assembly. Never! But if you have evidence that I said something contrary to the NOB and anything else and you have solid evidence against me, I only defend a certain right, I didn't live then, I didn't experience these cases and I can't judge it. And no one else has the right, but the debate can only be debated on the basis of historical facts, testimonies and so on, but I cannot judge. And my truth may also be any other or whatever you wish, but not to tell me this, but to our parliamentary group, because we are not defending any imaginary interests, but this time the interests of the beneficiaries in accordance with the law on payment of war damage and other laws which are bound by it. And absolutely nothing else. Everything else, the structures that you are making up, just write to yourself; prove your belongings now in this vote. So I can tell you in the end that you yourself are the greatest victim of your delusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Please, Comrade Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	It's just a brief replica and a call to our colleagues to go back and consider this law and to consider the amendment to Article 13 - I think we still remember that we are in Article 13 - and that it's a shame, it's a shame to talk about cheating, cheating and so on. Let us be aware that with the laws we passed years ago, we have given the right and we must give this law the scope of this right. And if they took something from someone, they could talk about fraud. Today, we are only deciding how much and what extent of rights this country can have on the basis of its own abilities, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	I suggest we close the debate. We're at Article 13. Please point our attention to page 7 of our review of the amendments. Since the amendment is removed under order number 1, we will first vote on the amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs under order number 2. We're voting. There are 61 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 41 votes in favour of Amendment 2 and 15 members in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 3, the proposaler is an economic committee. We're voting. 61 colleagues and colleagues voted. 47 supported by this proposal, 4 opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We move on to page 8 of Article 14. Two amendments have been tabled with him. I would like to point out that the amendment of the DeSUS Group has been withdrawn, so we will only vote on the first. Anybody want a word about him? My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that again, and I hope for the last time. I will determine only that I will not support this article, nor will I. 13. Indeed, in those days I was also at some meetings with the beneficiaries, and when I explained to them what the Committee on the Economy had adopted, they could not believe that this was true. To withdraw these bonds by 2008 even, then the last will be payable if the law is adopted and with a one-percent interest rate, you know that if the beneficiaries of these bonds sell them when they receive them, if they want the money immediately to have that they will give them a possible half of the value for them, and they will lose as little as we have given them in the previous articles, and now we are taking it back because of the withdrawal. So they're really going to get at least what's possible, so I'm not going to support it. If there were at least 3% here, this would be some real value and it would be possible to sell for a substantial amount at any time, and this would not be a disaster for the country, but would do a good, humane gesture and show the country's goodwill towards these beneficiaries. That's how we stripped them to the nugget. That's why I'm not voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Visjak. I propose not to repeat the debate on Article 13. Please, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	No, thank you very much. I do not like to repeat myself, so I will only express here my position with regard to Article 14, which refers to Article 13 in substance and is difficult to speak separately, but nevertheless. But I would only rely on the shamefully low interest rate, TOM + 1. You need to know that bonds with such a low interest rate - I don't know the case to get paid, or I know him, we're going to vote one today. This opens up the possibility - once again - of mixing with these bonds when people come to the home of these beneficiaries with money and exploit the pressures of these socially weak layers of beneficiaries under this law, and, of course, they buy these bonds out of them for ridiculous money. Why? Because these bonds are low-interested and uninterested for beneficiaries and will also be disposed of. I think we're doing another injustice to these people who, at this age and after this suffering, don't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, mag. A visor. Comrade Kavečič!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	I have a short replica, otherwise very interesting - a fiery performance by my colleagues. I just want to add a little bit to the matter in terms of expertise. The bonds will be issued immediately, in the shortest possible time, not in eight years, as Mr Kelemini has escaped. And secondly, I would like to say that someone would not have the wrong impression - an extremely high-quality paper was conceived. Securities are an instrument for any developed company, any economy, and such a state guarantee paper can have a very high price on the market. The idea of this is not a high yield - of course we all agree - but to maintain payment of real value. This is ensured by the content of this paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	You want to explain your friend Kelemin, probably a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Kavčič. It's just that I'm asking you, you know exactly what I'm talking about and not forging my statements. It is known that the last bond will be payable in 2008 - this is what I am talking about. That's what I'm talking about. They can, of course, sell them when the beneficiaries get them. A lot of people, you know, from older people, if they don't have any support, they won't even sell them, and they'll die, and they might even fail. That's what you're counting on. That's what you're counting on! This is unacceptable, you see, with no argument you can explain this. We actually did them the least we could. That is why I do not agree with such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	Mag. Visjak, would you like to replicate your colleague Kavčič? Please, a short replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I would only replicate so much that the bond is not valued by beauty, by appearance, by design, by paper quality, but by profitability, maturity or financial effects of the bond. That's it. And this bond is extremely uninteresting and financially, I would say, unattractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 14 and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. The applicant, the proposer, is an economic committee. We're voting. 61 colleagues and colleagues were present and 41 voted in favour of the amendment and 16 colleagues and colleagues against it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand he's been accepted. By article 17, we have tabled seven amendments, of which the amendment is two amendments of editorial nature. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 17? Please, buddy Run! Excuse me, colleague Brenčič, colleague of Potrč, has signed up in writing. Excuse me. You have the floor, Comrade Brenčič. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	I'm sorry, Mr President, the device didn't come on. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and fellow Members. With all due respect to the people, to the beneficiaries of this law who have suffered, to the extent that violence has been committed, and in all the absurdity that the perpetrator of this violence - that is, the occupying party or their legal successors - has not been compensated to these people, I have to make an amendment that foresees or requires the deletion of Article 17 but to speak. First, the next. Why does this marriage have such a long way to go? Every transfer is superfluous: just because this law imposes such a burden on the state budget that, despite all the nice words spoken in this law, this law could not be implemented very quickly. What does Article 17 provide? In particular, that the beneficiary who receives compensation for an act of violence committed to him is entitled to compensation under this Act only to a total amount of compensation of 2 million. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that the compensation provided by this law is, above all, a major moral act of this country to events from the past. And it's by no means her duty. However, it represents such a large amount of resources from the state budget, especially in view of the situation of public finances as it is today, an extremely heavy burden on the country. The deletion of Article 17 as proposed by the Joint List Member Group, which is only a summary of the demands of some, is a very few aggressive and impatient associations that see only their rights in this compensation. No rights of certain other beneficiaries. Even in the light of the letters I receive, they do not take into account the real capacity of this country and the deletion of this Article means an additional over 7 billion resources for the state budget. This is not only an additional burden on the State budget, but also constitutes discrimination between individual beneficiaries, as some, in so far as this article is deleted, will receive compensation from several headings and other beneficiaries will receive compensation only under this law for the same or the same type of violence, the larger forms, the more severe dimensions. I really don't understand, so - at least for me - irresponsible behaviour within the government coalition, but, of course, in the first place, the government and its President, that this time they don't oppose it. Dr. Drnovska’s government opposed this amendment, then Dr. Bajuk’s government, and then Dr. Drnovšk’s government began again. Now all of a sudden, the government is no longer opposed to a new source coming into the state budget, allowing without any doubt the release of such a heavy budget burden. I'm not gonna talk about it or analyze what this procedure is. But I can see why. I have to say the following. The current activity of both the Government and this National Assembly in this early term is practically directed only to the frenzied reduction of rights or already in existing laws of acquired rights, to the reduction and gradual introduction of rights in the laws that are in the procedure, and all of this for one reason: that the situation in public finances and the state budget is as stated and conditioned. I'll warn you about the following. In the third reading, we have a law on social protection that provides money for, I would say, bridging poverty to some new height. In this law, we have strongly moved the validity or applicability of this law far towards the end of this year because there is no money in the state budget. Without every conceivable, that's right. I would point out that in the procedure, laws that would reduce rights and enforce them for a longer period of time, such as the Parenthood Act, have been enforced. We have a law on the pediatric clinic and I know very well what the debate will be like in this national assembly when the state budget is adopted because we do not implement it. I know very well what it will be like to discuss Members when they adopt the budget on the urgent need for a second track investment in Koper and so on. Last but not least: while the school ministry is unable to carry out financial obligations to a congregation from a year ago in the amount of fighting 65 million, the municipality of Cerknica has been practically maintaining some insolvency in the municipal budget for three months. In addition, you know, the measure of deleting this amendment is what I - unfortunately, with all due respect, as I have said, to this minimum compensation that the beneficiaries expect - cannot support. In particular, because this, as I see it, is a discriminatory measure within the beneficiaries. I would just like to say this: if this article is deleted, then I will probably, as a Member of this National Assembly, revise my attitude towards the measures that are urgently needed to support the socially weak to overcome the poverty that we have 3%. I firmly believe, with all due respect for the beneficiaries, very few of these beneficiaries belong in this circle. I will also revise my attitude towards violating some of the rights that are in the procedure, and these laws are designed in accordance with the time and needs of our society. By deleting Article 17, we radically change the concept of the law, as set out in the first reading, in order to recognise, for the same injustice, the limit set out in this Title, only those funds which are not obtained from other sources. I will only say that this does not diminish my attitude towards this law, reduces or puts me in such a relationship that I can say that we may not be aware of the situation in our society, so that, with our left hand, we can burden the current state budget and public finances for a few years with 10 billion. I will be very pleased if I may hear a similar debate from my colleague Kavčič, who has worked very productively in this law, in this article as he did in Article 13. Article 13 changes very little and was much more justified by the amendment we rejected, because these funds have in fact already arrived than the amendment, which, in a sense, imposes new over 7 billion funds on the state budget and puts the beneficiaries in a discriminatory relationship in particular. I will, of course, reject this amendment, or I will not support it, and in the spirit of the state in which this country as a whole is, I call upon you to follow me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Comrade Run, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Brenčič has said many of his views on the state of this amendment, and in particular the views on addressing other current budgetary issues in our country. However, he also said how he and through him must have been someone else, especially the parliamentary group, since we joined the coalition, in an effort not to delete Article 17. And that's one of the reasons why we've been coordinating this text for so long, and maybe a month or two before. With regard to Mr Brenčič's debate, I would like to say the following as soon as possible. As far as the amount is concerned, it is accurate - it is about 7 billion tolars. As far as the number of people is concerned, I think it's about 7,000 beneficiaries. As regards the obligations the State has up to many purposes, the findings are correct. However, I must say, Mr Brenčič, when stressing the Consolidated List, it is not the most correct thing to say about the obligations arising from the decisions of the previous government, the problems that this coalition must solve, and similar things, because you were in the previous coalition, Members and Members of the Joint List. But we're helping out as best we can with you and with liberal democracy and DeSUS, the situation as it is, just to solve it. As to the reasons why we proposed deleting this article, I would like to say them and, in my opinion, they are at least worth hearing if you cannot accept them personally. Look. The Act on the Fund for Remuneration of War and Post-war Violence states in Article 1 that this establishes a fund for compensation for non-material damage. Non-material damage - probably, Mr Brenčič, there is no need to explain what it is. Article 5 states that "the fund shall be repaid: for the first time compensation for physical and mental suffering and for the second time compensation for the loss of the life of the neighbor." These are the purposes for establishing this fund. These purposes are completely different from those for which forced workers will be compensated for their forced labour in Germany for their forced labour. For this reason, to talk about whether it is the same basis, and so that it is possible and that these two can be compared and mixed at all, simply does not resist a realistic assessment. It can hold the view and approach, but realistic assessments, Mr Brenčič, no. In addition, the funds of the Fund for the payment of forced labour explicitly state that these are individual rights granted to individuals from these foreign funds and which are not possible and must not be compensated by any other rights and grounds granted by the State, whose nationals are from abroad, from foreign funds. This is another fact that needs to be taken into account and that speaks of the fact that these two are not comparable. Third. We have conceived the obligations of this law first with the ownership law in 1991, later with the law on victims of war violence and other laws in 1995 and since then the obligation to exist, the obligation to pay for intangible damage, for physical and mental suffering. At that time, it was completely unclear whether and when the Fund would be established and whether and when the beneficiaries of Slovenia would be able to obtain any funds from this Fund of Germany and Austria. And the fact that the adoption of the Law on the Fund for the Remuneration of War was so long-term and came at a time when the approximately already known beneficiaries and when it is about known what the amount of funds they will receive and the approximate deadlines - I speak on purpose about it, because everything in detail is not known - now, after so many times to compare and compensate these two, when the law of conformity should have been adopted years ago, even in my opinion is wrong and not correct. For this reason, I am convinced that if this compensation were provided, it would create inequality under the law because some, according to our national, Slovenian law, would be entitled, others who have suffered similarly, that I will not speak to the same, because it is simply very difficult to compare, similar to grief, and also unquestionably were on forced labour, and would not have obtained this right from the Slovenian law because someone else would have given it to them. I think that this would really create inequality and be a basis for assessing whether this inequality is acceptable or not. Therefore, Mr Brenčič, I can agree with you that this is an additional burden on the budget. If we can even talk about burdens. Or that it requires funds from the budget. But to say that this 7 billion is the reason why socialism will fail, which will make the child's allowances questionable, which will make the family benefits questionable, so to speak, Mr Brenčič, a bit harsh and harsh. However, I am not saying that these 7 billion in the next five, six, seven years will not be one billion a year, and that this is about 1 per cent of the budget, and that these are not important funds. They're important! It is only because of these that the budget should not be completely broken and only this part of the discussion is, in my opinion, over-potential on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. This amendment has now extended the list. First my friend Ašić, then my colleague Brenčič. They're all replicas. And since they're all limited to five minutes, I suggest we follow this order. Comrade Auschwitz, Brenčič and Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, there used to be talk about cheating and cheating and similar stories. I personally am convinced that this was not the case and that it was decided on a sober basis as we have decided. However, I am sure that if we did not delete Article 17, we could talk about cheating or cheating in some way. For, as Mr Potz has defined both problems before me or both, of course, I am joining in not to repeat them. The fact is, of course, that we cannot mix in any way the money expected by forced workers abroad during World War II from foreign funds with the commitment made by this National Assembly in the adoption of the law on victims of war violence and the other two laws. And this commitment we made in part - we said, a symbolic payment - also on account of the fact that our former country part of the funds that came into the country was then earmarked for the development of the economy, infrastructure and the like, and are now returning through the compensation fund as a symbolic payment for victims of war violence and other beneficiaries under this law. Other countries, of course Germany, are under pressure, we all know, the largest lobby in the world - the Jewish lobby - in fact, even after so long they have begun to solve a similar problem. And only in a small part do we join, and also on the basis of the efforts of this same society of exiles of Slovenia, which we have named several times, and their future work and the recording of all the events that they have done most thoroughly in the country. These days, within these societies, they meet the forms - and this is an individual matter, as has already been pointed out, and this individual role will or will not be successfully completed. Of course, our law covers all those that it defines, and that is why I believe - and that is why we have agreed with us - that we will support the deletion of Article 17 and thus define the Slovenian Fund and separate it from foreign funds formed for another area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. My friend Brenčič and colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, I wonder why this country is obliged to pay compensation to those who have suffered violence. This is, as I said before, a great moral act of this country now, this Slovenia, if it is for this compensation, thank God, or for this suffering he has given to the causer. It is not justified that we are additionally burdening the country. However, as far as I am concerned, I am the only one working to maintain the government proposal of Article 17 is not entirely true. By 2.2. this year, this government coalition, this government, has strongly opposed this deletion. And precisely because of these arguments that I said earlier, Mr Potts, you said that I was making a rough and excessive comparison. But what are we doing in this initial coalition of other than violating rights? And to whom do we deny these rights? We are not doing anything else until now, neither the government nor the National Assembly, but just how much more difficult it is for the first force to neutralize the situation in public finances and the capacity of this country. And every conjecture is too much! But I'll read it because I have three more minutes of how the government has defined itself. "The amendments represent the view that compensation must be paid to the beneficiaries, irrespective of whether they have received compensation from other sources intended for the same purpose as the purpose of the fund to compensate victims of war and post-war violence. These are cases of beneficiaries who are also entitled to compensation from German and Austrian sources. Contrary to the fact that payments from our, German or Austrian sources are not compensation, which, in terms of the bond clause, would be used to remedy the damage caused, but rather to recognise the victims of war and post-war events, we cannot overlook the fact that the proposed amendment to obtain payment from two different legal addresses for the same types of damage could be implemented. The fundamental purpose of the payments from our fund is to ensure that the victims who suffered violence received no foreign compensation are entitled to our solidarity regulations. It is understandable that when a foreign country helps them individually in overcoming the problems, the need for domestic aid is eliminated or paid only to the extent that, together with foreign funds, they are subject to our rules." I wonder if the government is after 2. In 2001, I found an additional source in the budget that does not now oppose this amendment, or that we are in a strange, enchanted circle of this country, when we find that, after all, I do not know, we will stop paying off some of the legal obligations that are given to citizens and, on the other hand, we will simply cause the burden of the state budget for seven and so many billion, and that is not, you know, 70 or 700 million. We're talking seven billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, you are the last to be reported and then we will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. The problem, namely, the adoption of this law and the longevity of the adoption of this law, is, in particular, a number of matters. First, the time gap between the events resulting from the adoption of this law; secondly, it is likely that the former State has obtained some of these funds from the occupying countries and has included them in some way purely for other purposes; and secondly, the inability of the former State, as well as this diplomacy, to actually recover from the invaders the actual amount of war compensation for the suffering caused in this area. I think that with the proposed amendment to Article 17, we are working again on inequality between beneficiaries. Some categories that may have been more eligible for higher compensation after the suffering they have experienced during this period will be in an unequal situation and we will again work on inequality between beneficiaries. As for the financial aspect, however, I fully agree with my colleague Brenčič. And I think it will be very interesting, very interesting to see in the coming months and years how this national assembly and this country will act to address the necessary social issues, whether this period will be valid for the law on parenting and family benefits in increasing social assistance when this period enters into force. How will this country be in favour of the country's favourable demographic policy or the possible expansion of the circle of victims of war violence? It is likely that there will be a declaration by the Minister of Finance or by individual government representatives, and the state is in such severe financial difficulties that it cannot meet the introduction of new rights or the introduction of a minimum for survival. And with today's amendment, I will always warn you about this issue when such an amendment is in Parliament. Because I think in a way we're going to be "scrambled," in our own words, where I don't think it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	I conclude the debate on - please colleague Gaspari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would ask for a legislative and legal service if that clear answer to a question that is not of a substantive nature can be formally important. Do the rules of Germany, Austria and other countries which are bound by these damages make provision for rules in countries whose nationals are beneficiaries of these damages? Or maybe we're asking a different question. Could it therefore be that beneficiaries from these countries do not receive funds if the State of these beneficiaries is subject to conditional conditions in its rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	I think the more competent government is for this, of course, if the secretariat wants to give its position, it can, but I'm going to ask Dr. Pirkmeyer to do so. Do you agree? Please, Dr. Pirkmeyer. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The rules do not directly prevent this and there is no conditionality between the rules adopted by Germany and Austria and the rules of the countries where the beneficiaries are at home. So that's not it. But I can summarise the debate that prepared the government after February 2nd to change its attitude towards the amendment tabled. What Mr Brenčič read is the position of the government, which still existed as a weighty position that defended the opinion of opposition to the amendment. Later, however, different views were expressed. The position of the Office or the Law Service, which warned that the matter could be disputed from a constitutional point of view when it comes to equal rights for citizens, on equality before the law Thus, some actual situation could be evaluated differently depending on whether certain additional conditions imposed by foreign countries are met. The second thing represented in particular by the Foreign Ministry is that the funds allocated by foreign funds are intended to compensate or humanitarian aid to victims of war or Nazi violence, not to reduce the burden of national budgets. These arguments finally prevailed over the reasons that Mr Brenčič spoke extensively, as if he had heard financial experts from the government. And so the government withdrew its reservations until the amendment was adopted. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I am now really closing the debate on this point and moving on to the vote. If the amendment of the Group of Members of the United States of Social Democrats to Article 17, to delete it, is adopted, all are irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal supported 33 and was opposed to 20. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 20.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and that all the other amendments are irrelevant. So now, at the end of the day, we can only vote on the amendment to Article 18, which provides that the article is deleted; the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[you have it as the last one written on page 11.]] . Anybody want to talk about him? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment to Article 18 was supported, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments. I'm asking the secretariat if there's been a discrepancy? You want a word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The Secretariat notes that, due to the amendments adopted to Article 11, the text of this Article has in fact become inconsistent since the second paragraph, which remained in the basic version, cannot be applied in the basic sense at the time of the first paragraph. We also believe that, in view of the revised text of the third paragraph, I will say that the whole text of the second and third paragraphs should be recast.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	It's an intervention of editorial nature, isn't it? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	It's not just an intervention, I mean, it's not a major intervention, but it's a substantive intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	You're demanding an interruption to do that? Would you like to make a compliance amendment? How long do you need to do this? Government, how long does it take to coordinate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	Mr President, I think that this is a very technical task, but this matter needs to be reviewed. Maybe by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	So if the government does, and I invite her to do so, then we will only have one more vote, and after 68 months, when this topic was present in the National Assembly, we will also conclude this question. I therefore invite you, Dr Pirkmajer, to stand by the government to prepare a harmonisation amendment and then to be able to vote on the proposal in full. I think that this bill has a kind of record in parliamentary benches, as I say, according to my calculation of 68 months, and at this meeting of the National Assembly, this could finally be settled. I will invite my colleague of the vice president to come and continue the meeting until 6 p.m. However, my fellow Members, I should like to inform you that we have received from the Government a proposal for the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that today we will grant the mother's working bodies a grant for its treatment. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE SEA - rapid procedure. The proposal for a code was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I see government officials are on their way. Does the government want a word? Here you go. Let's just calm down for a second!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	So, respectable! The main objective that we have followed in the preparation of this maritime code, which has as long a beard as we have heard today, and which is now in the National Assembly, is to bring together the law of the sea in the Republic of Slovenia in one law, and this is the maritime code. The present maritime code follows the requirements of this type of European legislation, but it also offers solutions that are not yet found in the current maritime legislation and we have constantly missed it. In doing so, I refer mainly to the chapters dealing with the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia at sea, the economic public services in the maritime sector, the financing of economic public services, inspection of ships and the safety of navigation, the Slovenian ship register and the update of the chapter on offences. On the basis of many coordinations, we have decided not to include the chapters of the Maritime Good in the Maritime Code. Such arrangements shall be governed by the Water Act, which shall govern both sea and inland waters. We believe that it is right if this subject is regulated in a single law, as the basics are the same. The previous text of the Maritime Code, which the National Assembly had already discussed two years ago, was the result of this first reading and over 170 amendments and various opinions tabled. Moreover, a number of chapters, the maritime code of which, even in so-called second reading, did not contain at all. In order to make the matter better and to make less work in Parliament, where more than 170 amendments needed to be addressed, we combined the answers in these amendments, brought together the missing chapters and produced material that is essentially the successor of the material two years ago. It was also necessary to take into account the fact that the previous text did not contain certain chapters without which we could in fact not work in maritime matters. In fact, the port activity and port manager, the economic public service, the financing of the public economic service, inspection supervision, as I have already mentioned, and the Slovenian ship register are the ones without which we cannot operationalise the law. And there's something else that's happened. When the Republic of Slovenia is included in the European Community, it is also necessary to adapt maritime legislation to European legislation. This was also the reason why we decided to offer a new text to the National Assembly, which has already taken account of the changes in this area and which the former could not fully take into account. In the field of maritime law, we are witnessing continuous improvements and new developments. Therefore, any delay in the adoption of the maritime code constitutes an obsolescence of the maritime code. It is undeniable that the proposed maritime code will also be subject to changes, as the activities in this direction are very lively. Virtually every major maritime disaster brings new and new requirements for the regulation of maritime legislation. The commitment arising from the resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia also requires us to do so. The Republic of Slovenia also needs a maritime code because of the following commitments and legal solutions. The obligation to comply with European legislation. The adoption of the maritime code is part of European legislation. The adoption of this Act was foreseen until 31 December 1999, which means that this commitment is not fulfilled and we are late for it. The consequences of the unaccepted maritime code are shown in the following. The concession contracts for the implementation of economic activities in the area of the port of Cyprus, which is the tenant of infrastructure in this area, cannot be concluded because the maritime code is the only legal act allowing this. Without it, it is not possible to conclude a concession contract. Another time. Definition of port infrastructure. There is no law in the Republic of Slovenia defining the port infrastructure and the jurisdiction of the State over changes or interference in this port infrastructure. The definition of the port infrastructure and the jurisdiction of the State over changes in such infrastructure, including the safety and public of the port of loading, is of particular importance to that State. Third time. We can say that the tasks of the port manager without legally regulated solutions cannot be produced and the concession contract concluded. Not last time, fourth time. Economic public service and financing of the economic public service without such provisions cannot be established, the regime of economic public services in the field of maritime transport. The free movement of services, respected, free movement of services required by European legislation is not now possible, as the current legislation, maritime legislation even prohibits it in the form of cabotage. The Code of the Sea removes this prohibition. Technical control of the ship's ability to sail. The current regime is not in line with the requirements of European legislation. Such European legislation specifies which classification establishments may determine the capacity of a ship to sail. To date, the current regulation in the Republic of Slovenia also provides for a classification agency which is not recognised by European legislation. Gentlemen! Slovenian Ship Register. The work of regular courts is burdened by the provisions of this Chapter, as they are now burdened by the work to be done by the administration in the future. Next, the boat and the definition of the boat. The maritime code summarises the definition of European legislation. To what extent is the vessel considered as a vessel? Today's maritime legislation differs greatly from European legislation. Today, the ship is 12 meters ahead. In the future, according to European legislation, the ship is 24 metres ahead. It's up to 20 feet, but it's all a boat. And in this regard, of course, all the issues involved. And that's what I'd say in the end. Inspection control and a restraining order. The current maritime legislation does not know the term of port State control, or as it is called, PSC - "port state control". This "port state control" is an integral part of the Paris Memorandum, the associated member of which became the Republic of Slovenia on 18 May 2000. This is a great recognition of Slovenia as a maritime country. Workers already carrying out such controls are trained in institutions and have been given the necessary authority to carry out their work with this institution. And because the status of this "port state controla" does not solve any law in us, these people are practically acting in accordance with European legislation and not in accordance with our current legislation. I'd almost say "black," even though they have to do their job. Those points represent only the greatest discrepancies between the existing maritime legislation and the maritime legislation required. We believe that it follows from all of this that the emergency needs of the State which requires the early adoption of the maritime code and the need to implement the resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. Mr President, this was my brief presentation. Of course, we are ready here to answer any questions that may arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The proposal for a code was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a code. Please. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has considered the Maritime Code twice. It was discussed on 7 February and on 15 February. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee had the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs, the amendments of the Government and the amendments of a fellow Member, Aurelia Juri. We also examined the opinion of the Commission on the political system of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia of 19.6.2000. In the context of the general debate at the 7 February meeting of the Committee, we supported the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a Code of the Sea by means of a rapid procedure. At the same time, the Committee invited the representatives of the proposer of the draft code to draw up further proposals for the drafting of amendments, together with the representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the expert service of the Committee, taking full account of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. On 15 February, the Committee considered individual articles of the maritime code. On the basis of a proposal prepared by the representatives of the proposal, the secretariat, the Committee adopted the following amendments, which are on pages 3 to 11. I'm sorry, until 15. Not to read them all, you have them all under review. The Committee also discussed the other amendments tabled and supported the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 6, 8, 11, 12, 16, 23, 25, then to the new Article 25a, to Article 27 and so on, as also listed on page 15. However, he did not support the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 45 and 770. It was not defined until the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by 7, 26, 31, 36, 41, 57, 72, 93, 95, 99, 144, 145, 150, 185, 187, because we consider these amendments to be irrelevant. A member of the Committee, Mr Aurelio Juri, announced the withdrawal of his amendments to the 31st Article for a new III. Chapter, 'Treaty on port translation services'. Following a discussion on individual articles of the law, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a maritime code - a rapid procedure - be adopted together with the amendments of the Committee and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported by the Committee. The Committee also agreed that there were still some open questions in the drafting of the amendments. We have therefore agreed that the Government, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the expert services of the Committee should prepare any amendments that are then summarized by one of the members of the Committee. You have these amendments in writing submitted by Mr Juri and are coordinated between the government and the secretariat. The Committee then proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt an additional decision to read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly to make the necessary editorial improvements together with the proposer when preparing the final text of the Maritime Code." And in the end. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the governments and our professional services, that despite the abundance of amendments, they have aligned themselves and have prepared actual material so that we can decide on it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Aurelio Yuri, united list. Mario Gasparini, LDS, and Sok, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Seamen and all who have anything to do at sea, of course legally, will finally be relieved by the adoption of the maritime code. In particular, its founders and all those who have sought to end this code of parliamentary treatment and acceptance from afar in 1993, as stipulated by the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Apparently, the supply was too large, despite the fact that it was not a new discovery in our legal order. No less maritime and no less legally regulated and successful in this area was Slovenia in the former Yugoslav regime. Nevertheless, the preparation of 990 articles with an extremely specific content of 'vis-a-vis', as we have heard from the Secretary of State, the constantly evolving international maritime regulations and 'vis-a-vis' of European legislation, has shown itself, however, as a handful of nuts, i.e. not a completely simple operation. 990 articles represent the longest law in our legal order. It is true, too, that the hand of the heart, colleagues and colleagues, if politics had shown a little more obedience to maritime affairs in all these years, just as it had been able to do so immediately after the independence of Slovenia's maritime orientation resolution - although, of course, the text, that resolution, was much simpler than the code itself - so if the listening and attention were greater, and it was not today to follow the excessive attention even in this Chamber - unfortunately, the benches are empty, also the balcony is empty, and this shows to a certain extent the attitude of Slovenia towards this sector - would have been the law already under the roof, certainly before 31 December 1999, and it would not have been due to the delay of time to receive a series of two warnings, gentle but still important, by the European Commission, which would have warned us twice in its regular annual reports of progress in this law. We support the maritime code in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We regret that it took so long to get on our benches, but we are pleased that this time has been usefully invested in the preparation of such solutions, which today should have been relatively simple and ongoing treatment. There are many amendments that you have in your materials, and we have contributed to this, but we have all - we have heard the Secretary of State of Roškar and also the Chairman of the Gerencher Infrastructure Committee - from the first to the last fruit of intensive and successful coordination among all qualified stakeholders in this code, that is, between the government, between the maritime economy, between maritime law and so on. Of course, and all these amendments will also receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Gasparini, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Indeed, Mr Aurelio and I, who are the Primortians, will have something to say and others are not interested in this matter anyway. At the outset, I must say that the LDS Group will support the maritime code, especially if I may point out that Slovenia has become a maritime state, not so much because of what you said earlier, why we need this law, but mainly because we have the sea. Well, this sea, as you know, is very small, but it is very important for us, especially for economic, tourist reasons, and passenger fishing if you want, to a lesser extent, but it is certainly important. But for the locals, it's not so important that this law is possible. I expect the government to put the law on marine fisheries into discussion as soon as possible. Then we may otherwise participate there, I think, the locals, because this law certainly has its 700 articles, which speak of things that concern all maritime countries in general, which are based in particular on different agreements, agreements, declarations, international institutions. So it actually involves all of this. What concerns us here in Slovenia is, in fact, those first chapters, the first five chapters, if we put the first one away. We are talking first of all about the sovereignty of the sea, where territorial waters go, even though it now says what is the geographical breadth or length - it would be nice, but the other side of the medal. Let's hope this happens soon. I would not repeat what the Secretary has said, but I would tell you something anyway. What is happening on that small surface, the surface of the sea, and in the so-called Bay of Piran, the Bay of Koper? What do we got? That's a quick count. If we take as the primary port of Koper with our cargo traffic and passengers, and then we have three more ports and a few smaller ports. However, we do have passenger traffic, especially during the annual period. We have tourism, we have three marinas, we have two larger ones in Isola and Lucija, and we have a smaller one in Koper. We have a shipyard, and "see the fragment" there in one article, but we also have it, so it's about the shipyard, like we're doing ships in Isola, but we're not capable of it. But let's hope that maybe somewhere in the future we can build a ship, but so far we're only doing a few plastics and nothing else. We still have the police. We still have the Navy. Not to mention our fishermen, our locals, we have two marine cultures, and I'll put salt in there, and that'll be all. So maybe I forgot something. But there is very dense traffic on that small surface, and that's why it's good that this thing is arranged legally. Well, that's why we welcome this law. Well, as we say, we expect another. Why it takes so many years, we have already heard arguments, but I take the main reason that we have become a maritime state in just 10 days, that we are ten years and we are still applying old Yugoslav laws and some regulations from the Republic of Slovenia. The other thing is that we are bound by various declarations, as I said before, by various agreements, by international maritime law, and that is all, it had to be placed in one place, and that is why it is so extensive this area and the law contains those 1,000, almost 1,000 articles. In addition to that chapter, which speaks of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia at sea, there must be very important chapters or articles that talk about the safety of navigation that will have to be regulated, in my opinion, this has not yet been regulated, then on ports, on the order of ports and on the entire territorial sea. We've had a lot of trouble with what we call maritime pilotage. You know, the fight that happened years ago. I think that here, too, this law will regulate it and concessions, etc. Well, so this is where we're going to find a solution to this problem. The other chapters, as I said before, are more technical. We have already been warned by the Secretary of State, and we agree with this and, of course, we will also support the amendments to the law. So there won't be any problems on our side. I forgot that we have another boater, that is, the General Sailing in Portorož, who also uses our port. So I'm sure he'll be welcomed by this marriage. Finally, I repeat that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will decide to support this law and that we will complement it. Personally, however, I would like to see the law on sea fishing, which would be for the locals, as soon as possible for fishermen to deal with these problems that we have every year, if not with the shoes that have come into the network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, New Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Given that Members are not in Parliament, this is probably not a relation to this law, but it seems to me that the attitude towards working in this Parliament. Look, there's a number 44 on the screen, but I think we're a little over 30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u130	Dear Mr Sok, I regret to interrupt you now because you have warned me that there are only 44 Members, which means that the assembly is not concluded and please, if one more moment, please. [[....]] Please proceed. Members who are in the lobby or elsewhere, please join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u131	So I'm probably in a position to discuss it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u132	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u133	They probably went to desert, for perhaps today is not the most appropriate day to discuss such a law, which, as has already been said, is very extensive. So it seems to me that others who are not Primors can say what we say about this law; for I am aware that Switzerland also has the law of the sea. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group on this law is such that this law regulates what has now been regulated in one place on several proposals. As such, the law will allow the adoption of a concession contract with Luka Koper, will regulate the functioning of economic public services, as well as define public infrastructure and the State's obligation in this area. In our party, however, the question is whether it makes sense that this law has thousands of articles after these amendments. It seems to us that without great harm, a few of these articles could fall out of this law, as these are areas governed by the Bond Relations Act as well as the Administrative Procedure Act. However, if the applicant thinks that it makes sense and that it is necessary in one place to have all these articles written down, some of them even twice, we will also make such a decision in New Slovenia, and this law, together with the amendments tabled by the Government and adopted by the mother's working body, will also be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Would you like to hear from representatives of other parliamentary groups? Please, Mr. Pohorec, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because I have examined the law, which is very extensive, and I have examined it more quickly, and I also know in part the current legislation that regulates shipping across the sea, rivers, lakes, crossings, from our former country. I would say that Slovenians do have quite a small piece of the sea, but we can be proud of this part, and this piece of sea is also part of the sea, and we must also have appropriate legislation to compare and act in the same way as other European maritime countries and even other countries of the world. The law and the proposed amendments will be supported. In doing so, I would ask the representatives of the government or the constituents of the law in relation to - perhaps it does not belong here, but so far - legislation has also addressed the issue of navigation by rivers, lakes, crossings, in some way, as far as the present Slovenia is concerned. But there is and should be arranged in one of the laws. Whether it will be a special law or it will be left behind - what I know - some kind of future conduct in these waters of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Is there any other representative of the parliamentary group? I can see he doesn't want to. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one's signed in. For this reason, I limit the debate to five minutes. He wants to discuss Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u137	Aurelio.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u138	Aurelio, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to make a brief call, of course, by explaining what the chairman of the committee is. I would recommend to my colleague Sok for support, including the amendments that I have tabled and, of course, the harmonisation amendment on the basis of the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters. With about 15 of them, as you can see, the government and the secretariat will be able to confirm, of course, whether the intention of such an amendment is taken into account. As you know, I withdrew my two substantive amendments precisely because of the better solutions we found along with the government and the secretariat. That is why, of course, I recommend support, not only to the amendments of the committee, but also to those I have tabled. Speaking of which, I would also like to say something about maritime affairs, which is already partly the subject of the principle of Gasparini. The point is that when we put under the roof this code, which is a global or a umbrella maritime law, of course, our attention to maritime affairs should not fall. I recommend to the government and to all those ministries that have something to do with the sea, not only do I mean traffic and connections, I also mean internal affairs, defence, science, finance, lastly, the environment and space to take from the drawer - supposedly documentation exists - some long, very old idea of regulating the coast guard, which is supposed to be socially carrying out the tasks that these ministries at sea perform today scatteredly. You know that we have a navy, we have a maritime police, we have a maritime administration, we have an environment ministry that also cares about the sea, and, of course, the Ministry of Finance that pays for all of this, and of course, all of these structures use their vessels, their separate structures, which, you know, cost something. Tomorrow's the day of the sea. We will celebrate, it seems, this day by adopting this code in the best way. Tomorrow we will baptize the new vessel of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs, a multi-purpose lifeboat, and this is commendable. Tomorrow we will baptize a new Navy vessel and a new Navy vessel, and once we establish a financial police force, it will also have its own vessel. Look, all of this is commendable, but it costs a lot of money. And this serves, that is, better coordination, greater rationalisation, better joint, cooperative implementation of these tasks, also by the Coast Guard, according to the experiences we know elsewhere in the world. Some idea, some basic material already, I guess, exists. Of course, I call on the government to draw this from the drawer and examine whether our current government would be more receptive than ever before. Last but not least, even the coast is short we have trouble with the moorings, you know, and every new vessel needs an appropriate pier. And if we just move forward in a consistent and uncoordinated way, when everyone cares for themselves, we'll come up with a situation where we don't even have a place to get all these ships. That is why I say once again, I am giving an initiative, an idea, a challenge for the government to think about whether or not we could make some smart move in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Do any other Members want to discuss it? Please, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have two more questions regarding what Mr Aurelio said - port infrastructure. In Piran we got a new customs, police, and I don't know what other port building that does all these things, customs, passenger traffic and so on. Well, it was promised to continue in Isolah and in Koper. I want to know when this is going to happen in Isola and when it's going to happen in Cyprus. That was five years ago when I was still in Isolah, and so on. Another thing that really interests me: What did you mean by this chapter about shipbuilding, that is, the construction of ships - this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u142	We have a law in the debate, we have no questions sent to the government. Do any other Members want to discuss it? Please, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u143	Mr President, I don't think the comment you made was in place. The law speaks of, if you do not know, read the law, and then criticize that these are not parliamentary questions!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your comment. Do any other Members want to discuss it? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the Code. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. [[I'm sorry. I forgot my card there.]] There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Now, of course, we should move on to the consideration of the amendments, and given that there is only a few minutes missing by the end of work, I am adjourning the meeting and continuing it at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Please listen to the next notification. Tomorrow, 28.2.2001, the National Assembly will continue its meeting with the adjourned 4th item of the agenda, if a harmonisation amendment is prepared, then it will move on to the adjourned 5th item if the Committee on Health, Work, Family and Social Policy is identified to the amendments tabled. The meeting will then move on to a cut-off point of 26 if a harmonisation amendment is prepared and then to a cut-off point of 6th and following the agenda, so that all points within the Internal Policy Committee will be dealt with on Thursday or Friday. Thank you very much.
