ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues! Please come to the hall, we will continue with the 8th session of the National Assembly. If you're so kind as to insert identification cards, we'll have an approximate attendance check in the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to inform you first of the restraint of our colleagues and colleagues. Today they will not participate in our work of colleague and colleague: Roman Jakič, Jelo Kacin - colleague Jakič is here and we especially welcome him - Dr. Miha Brejc, Anton Delak, Victory Jelinčič Janez Kramberger, Janko Weber, Franc Kangler, who is also here, Stanislav Brenčič and Maria Possonec. I'm asking for peace in the hall, and I'm detecting presence. Please report your presence by pressing the quorum key. I think there's more of us in the hall. I'll just wait a minute. I invite all colleagues and colleagues who are still in the lobby of the large debate room to come in. I'm rediscovering the presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the quorum key. Members and Members, please come to the Chamber. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm detecting a presence in the hall. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 47 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. In accordance with our decision today, we will begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly by examining the Ombudsman's report; therefore, I have also invited the Ombudsman to attend the meeting. Then we will move on to a closed 12th point, this is a proposal for an inspection control law, point 4, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, to consider proposals for international treaty ratifications and in order of order. Today we will probably also have an extraordinary session, and I ask you to be careful about this decision. I would like to remind you of Tuesday's decision to take up parliamentary issues and initiatives - this is a matter for Prime Minister Janez Drnovšk of the opposition groups - and on Tuesday we are also considering the law on drought and on Wednesday we are continuing to discuss the rules of procedure. We're moving on to 35. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIONS 5. REPORT OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 1999 AND 6. REVENUE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2000. The report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration and the Ombudsman also wishes to have an introduction. I invite him to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President and Government Representative! I thank you for listening to my short opening act, and in particular for the debate which, I hope, will follow my performance on the extremely current human rights problems in Slovenia. I also thank you for keeping the State Assembly's promise and for classifying the Ombudsman's reports among the priority areas to be tackled. This points to a good start in our continued cooperation, and I hope that this will continue in the years ahead. However, I am also convinced that this is not just an act by which we will unlock an assignment and leave it in drawers until the following year, when the new Ombudsman's report will require further support for human rights. To emphasise, I believe that this formal act will also be followed by a substantive part. This performance is my first performance in the current role in front of you. However, I present, as you know, the Ombudsman's reports for the years when my predecessor, Mr Ivan Bizjak, the current Minister of Justice, did this work. On this occasion, let me thank him for the good inheritance he left me. The way he's pawned it, I'm going to keep it, and I'm going to complete it with my vision and my approach to solving the problem, which I'm going to talk about later. People are different, we are different, not only in appearance, but also in view of the social reality that surrounds us. This also provides the basis for different approaches to changing and improving the environment, so that all of us can have the best and happiest time that we have been given to stay in this world. And this diversity of each of us should be the basis for a better and more varied life for all of us. Unfortunately, too often it is a source of unproductive conflict or even worse, intolerance and exclusion. Criticism or disagreement is too often understood as an attack and not as an incentive to think about own and foreign views in order to substantiate or change these views. And in doing so, public persons, including politicians, are not exceptions. Variety must be a source of cooperation, and above all to find new solutions, to improve our common life, as only different views of the world enable us to find the best for everyone or for as many suitable solutions as possible. A different person, like ourselves, must be considered a fellow citizen, with whom we create and share prosperity and not a barrier to our individual material well-being. And now for the report. When I read the opening remarks that my predecessor had had in previous years, I noticed that without any greater effort, I could read his texts again. It's only here and there that I should change something, and the texts would still reflect today's reality. I didn't say that to stress the universality of the performances he had. This fact shows that human rights problems are not sufficiently resolved in Slovenia and quickly. In the work of the Ombudsman, only the names of those affected change, not often, but the problems remain the same. The National Assembly and the Government, as well as individual ministries and other state institutions, have taken decisions that are virtually unchanged every year, and specific commitments remain largely unrealised. At this point, I would like to welcome the government's changed attitude towards the Ombudsman's report. For the first time, the government has drawn up such an extensive opinion on this issue and this is quite comprehensive. Indeed, very unbalanced by sector: some have taken the problem very seriously and comprehensively, while others have taken it almost as a no-digestion. But there is also progress and I am sure that next year will be better. It is similar with the proposal for conclusions drawn up by the Committee on Internal Policy. It's not my job, nor am I going to take the authority and dictate to the National Assembly what it needs to take, but I'm going to give my opinion on this. I believe that the conclusions put forward are too general and do not specifically oblige anyone. They don't commit to: when, what, and when. However, if I simplify these conclusions a little bit, they do not call more or less for respect for laws. However, the awareness of the need to respect laws should be so present in society that this should not even be discussed. In the previous years too, when discussing the Ombudsman's reports, the National Assembly adopted conclusions, which were often not implemented. The government's opinion also lacks conclusions on what the government will do to improve the situation, as well as an analysis of the implementation of the conclusions and commitments imposed by the National Assembly in previous years. More than that, I am disturbed by some sentences in a government opinion that I hope are just lapsus. For example: "What has been an exception for decades has become a rule and vice versa, so these legal requirements will not be able to be fulfilled for a long time." This phrase, however, speaks of the implementation of a specific law and would not mention it if it were just a lonely case. But unfortunately, that thought also holds for a lot of other marriages. Let me mention two cases. The Act on the regulation of settlements and other interventions in the premises was adopted 17 years ago and completed eight years ago with an article stipulating that executions are carried out as a public service in the Republic, which is still not done today, i.e. eight years. The same was true of the law on the correction of injustices, the law on victims of war violence, the law on the rights of victims for war in Slovenia. Individuals have already obtained recognised rights under these laws, including the right to compensation, which could not be enforced because there was no law on payment by this year. It is similar with the complications of denationalisation, which are not over. There is also a duty of the State to the tenants of denationalised apartments. Such laws, which cannot be enforced or implemented, are quite something. I'm not going to burden you with listing, because I'm sure you've read all the reports carefully. And this gap between the adoption of laws and enforcement rules is one of the biggest problems contributing to human rights violations in Slovenia. When a law is adopted, it is necessary to carefully analyse the consequences, including the material consequences that will be incurred by each law, as well as what measures and sub-laws should be adopted so that the law can be implemented. While the government acknowledges in its report that it is important to issue acts simultaneously or at least within the shortest period of time, it excuses delaying by non-cooperation or difficult cooperation between different professions or departments. This is not and cannot be an argument for me, because the government must work in a coordinated manner and its departments must cooperate with each other in the interests of the sticklers. Perhaps I can mention here as a different practice, a recently passed law on free legal aid, which has already been adopted today under the law implementing acts, so that it can actually be implemented by now. That's the way it's supposed to be in all marriages. So, as far as legislation is concerned, I can summarise. While some laws relevant for the protection of human rights have been adopted, it is worrying that many of them are not implemented because of poor regulatory solutions or because of the lack of sub-laws that are not adopted in time for most of them. The construction is also worth untimely amending laws on which the Constitutional Court found non-conformity with the Constitution. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular the problem of Roma representation in municipal councils. In fact, the Constitutional Court found that it would be necessary to establish more precisely the criteria on the basis of which the municipalities could determine whether the Roma community lived in its area. Article 65 of the Constitution also speaks of a special law on the Roma, which does not exist. It is not necessary for him to be alone, the problem of the Roma can be solved in different laws, but it is not. With regard to the implementation of the rules, I would like to draw the attention of the Ombudsman to the conclusion that there is too often a narrowing of the interpretation of rules and the filling of gaps in regulations to the detriment of an individual; a breach of substantive and procedural rules, as well as a decision on the external and any reasonable time limits. Often, we also run into an inadequate relationship of authority, especially with a public official, with an individual. In the work of the national authorities, I would also like to stress in particular the need for openness and transparency in their work. Some of this will be contributed by new laws just adopted, some e-business introduction, and this will also have to be followed by the ethics of the conduct of civil servants and their greater responsibility, since without it the same laws are just dead letters on paper, which unfortunately happens too often. In this regard, the work on environmental protection and ratification of the Aarhus Convention is particularly important. In the work of the repressive authorities, we still receive complaints related to the use of coercive means and the length of detention, as well as to the housing situation in prison and, in particular, in detention. This is mainly due to overoccupied capacity. Also, slowness, too often, can cause life’s hardships. Even in the work of the public administration, backlogs do not decrease, except in the resolution of income complaints and in relation to unemployment rights. In the work of the municipal administrations, however, poor communication with citizens and a lack of respect for deadlines is most common. This should be sufficient, as it would take too long to list human rights problems. However, I believe that you have also read both reports carefully and you know the specific problems. I would like to stop at this moment with the current question - the guardian for individual areas. The Ombudsman has already covered everything that constitutes violations of human rights. So one institution covers a whole range of social problems, which is sometimes very burdensome for professional workers, as well as for people who are violating their rights. That is why I support every form of problem-solving where they arise. That would have saved a lot of lives before the guardian got here. In addition, this would mean helping companies to special social groups that often lack the power or knowledge to face acute economic and social problems. In doing so, it is important to ensure that such forms of activity are either formalised and prescribed by the State or as non-governmental and informal organised groups - that these activities are also effective. Therefore, there will have to be a wide range of paths of complaint, such as the most pressing health problem at the moment. And a word about the plans. I expect future human rights violations to occur more frequently than social problems, so I will look forward to seeking a solution in this direction in the future. Especially are child rights problems now, which also show the whole range of issues: the allocation of children in divorce, contact with both parents, maintenance payments, as well as violence against children and their abuse. And my first priority is to do more in child protection, so I ask the National Assembly to support me in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Guardian. Your report was addressed by the Internal Policy Committee. Would the chairman of the committee, Comrade Lavrinc want a word? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. So, according to well-known practice, I don't read or point out everything that was said on the committee, like I did to keep you from getting tired and taking time. However, in a specific case, I think it should be said that, depending on the scope of the work, I would like to point out once again that, at this point, just eight points that the Internal Policy Committee had to draw up, within the framework of, of course, the possibilities and timeframes, the Ombudsman's reports have been thoroughly addressed. Even so, we have come to the conclusion that the very general conclusions that were first prepared for the National Assembly have not satisfied the members of the Committee, so we have taken time to reconsider, to further clear the conclusions. And those who are now in front of you are a little more specific, but of course there is still not what they want. It should be stressed that it has been found: what the reports tell us is actually a mirror image of this society. If we wanted a concrete action programme, we would need something more strictly written by the government in any way, that is the first, and the programme, how and what we will do to address the shortcomings in specific areas. Secondly, the problem that we have raised in the debate is that the Internal Policy Committee itself is not composed in such a way that it is absolutely competent to deal with all areas. We have therefore agreed in some way to advise the Ombudsman in some way to prepare some kind of partial reports for future segments so that they can be dealt with by individual committees. I will not repeat what you have said in your defense in some way, if I say so, said the Minister, because the government representative is here, Minister Bizjak, and he will be able to say so himself. All I can say is that we have touched on the debate of all chapters, in fact, all the points that have been identified, especially what has been pointed out in the end, that we have already taken a decision in this National Assembly on the consideration of previous reports in relation to violations of children's rights. That is why, of course, we expect, and we have also written in our conclusions, that for the time being, there is a need to follow the path that has been rethought, and this is that in the framework of the Ombudsman, the new three co-workers of the Ombudsman, the deputies of the Ombudsman, who would deal with it and the social field, should be specifically identified. In the discussion, a number of specific requirements were highlighted, which are found in the report on pages fourth, fifth and sixth. They all end up in the joints. As chairman of the committee, I will also say that I will make sure that, perhaps not so much on the nose next year, these reports are addressed, not because it is impossible to prepare a programme for the professional service, to find all the laws that are needed here. It is very easy, for example, to correct laws that do not comply with the Constitution, but it is more difficult to find substantive solutions to those laws that the Ombudsman has warned about, which is - because they are indeterminate because they are poorly defined - their application in practice does not give the desired results and this causes people problems. Although we have been criticised and have accepted criticism, this is, after all, also a mirror for the work of our committee, but I propose to the National Assembly to support the proposed decisions, so to speak, to adopt both reports, to support the proposed conclusions, to somehow commit ourselves together, so that for the next year, a report to be considered in 2002, we prefer to take a month more and prepare more concrete areas to be made, and to revive these partial reports and to consider partial reports on the individual committees of this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Mr Bizjak, Minister of Justice, who represents the government in today's debate, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Dear Mr. Ombudsman, Honourable Deputy Ombudsman, Honourable Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! When I handed over about a year and a half ago to the then President of the National Assembly, Mr Podobnik, the fifth annual report of the Ombudsman, I did not imagine, of course, that I would be a representative of the government when he was being considered. But that's the way things can get stuck. Allow me just a few words in connection with the Ombudsman's reports, of course, also in connection with the opinion on these reports prepared by the Government. For the first time in your consideration of the Ombudsman's annual report, the opinion of the Government is also before you. This is what I think is needed and an important response from the Government to all that is said by the Ombudsman. I hope that you have benefited from this opinion in your consideration of the report so far. Of course, this opinion could be more extensive. It could have been more detailed, it could have been shorter or otherwise written, but we tried, in particular, to show all the responses of the government and individual ministries to warnings, proposals, recommendations made by the Ombudsman; in particular, in the part where things moved, where the shortcomings were resolved or where something was made essential for their elimination. It therefore represents the Government's opinion that the shortcomings have been addressed. It also presents some areas and prepared, established programmes to address shortcomings, problems and the implementation of the Ombudsman's proposals and the legitimate expectations of citizens in these areas. Of course, in this report, we do not run away from problems that are not yet solved. As a result, a few words have also been said about why the government will continue to work in some areas - that is, such words that have come up with some criticism in this meeting so far. However, it must be said that such phrases could be released peacefully, but we wanted to say with this that we are also aware of these problems. This reference to effort - of course it must be taken as it is written. In fact, addressing such shortcomings will have an appropriate weight, an appropriate advantage in the functioning of the government and individual ministries. The government's view shows that in many areas there has already been a lot of work done in this period. Both in the field of legislation - as the Ombudsman has said in part and would not specifically repeat it - many laws have been passed by the Ombudsman, either in the fifth or in the sixth annual report. In particular, I would - at least for example - mention the law on the fund for payment of war compensation, which has been rightly set up as something which must be adopted as soon as possible, since it is only this law that allows the exercise of already recognised rights. On the other hand, I should like to point out once again the law on free legal aid, as this was a problem that the Ombudsman has been alerting since almost 1995 and since 1996 it has been reliable. So this law, which is beginning to be implemented, including the law on the Fund, which takes the first steps towards its full implementation, are examples, however - although it has to be acknowledged, with considerable delay - some proposals are being implemented. Of course, it is necessary to mention, in recognition of the eligibility of criticism, that certain laws are too slow to comply with the Constitution or that the response to a finding of non-compliance with the Constitution is sometimes too slow, but it should be noted that, in particular this year, the proposed types of laws submitted to the National Assembly have been a series of proposals for laws that have led to the harmonisation of these laws with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, the government has set itself as priority targets to address shortcomings in a number of areas and has therefore also drawn up very specific programmes or made some other binding decisions. If I mention first the abolition of the court's arrears. Already in March, the government adopted a comprehensive programme to remedy these setbacks, which contains measures of various types, from, say, employment issues, systematisation to the issue of judicial education. On the other hand, a number of government efforts to establish a people-friendly state administration need to be highlighted in particular. Let me mention a number of regulations adopted this year, both in terms of business time itself, official hours and with some other aspects of the relationship between the administration and the parties. A special government programme is under way to remove administrative barriers. This topic has a high priority in the Government's efforts. Some successes, some achievements already show up. It is to be expected, however, that this will not only be a single day fly, but that, on the basis of the specific tasks already identified, it will be done in many different areas and that this will not be achieved in order to avoid any unnecessary problem that comes before an individual when exercising his or her rights or exercising his or her interests. It should also be stressed that it has already been done and that it is also one of the priorities of the future to continue to allow access to information of a public nature. I would not refer to specific cases as the availability of a register of regulations and similar things, but I should only point out that the so-called e-governments provide for a whole range of measures, I would say, which should ultimately also contribute to the use of modern technology in the most appropriate way. The Code of Conduct of Public Servants has already been adopted and, of course, is to be attached to all those who are of the opinion that it is appropriate to complete it, that it should be supplemented, in particular with regard to the details of the relationship between a civil servant and a citizen, and that it is also applicable in an appropriate manner, means that the rules to be adopted in the context of the modernisation of public administration should also specify how the infringements of this Code will be penalised. Finally, on all these issues, I should mention the question of accelerating denationalisation among these issues, a number of which are widespread. The government has taken additional measures this year. I expect that, at the time of its consideration of the 16th report, it will take some other such measures and, of course, keep an eye on their implementation. Everything you say doesn't mean there's no problem. This does not mean that a guardian institution could become unnecessary in the near future. However, I would like to stress - and I think that this is also evidenced by the government's opinion - that the government is taking proposals, warnings, criticisms, the Ombudsman's recommendations seriously and will do so in the future. This commitment, I think, can help to address people's problems more quickly. I'm stressing the word faster. In fact, so far, many things have come true. But I am convinced that with a little more commitment, we can do such things more quickly. With the commitment that the government will continue to listen carefully and heed the Ombudsman's warnings, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I propose that we bring together the debate on both reports. First, the views on both reports will be put forward by the parliamentary groups. First, I invite my colleague Sam Bevk to the floor and then my colleague Mag. Andrea Vissiak. Buddy Bevk. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Members? Any of the other MPs? Majda Zupan and? Thank you very much. Will you do it, buddy? Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Ombudsman, Matjaž Hanžek, Deputy Minister, Honorable Assembly. We have before us the fifth and sixth consecutive report of the Ombudsman for the years 1999 and 2000. In the United Social Democrats Group, we have carefully examined all the reports of the Ombudsman since 1995. We have understood them as an invitation that state institutions, every individual with responsible functions, should be involved in addressing the weaknesses of other rule of law, which constitute violations of human rights; we have always raised issues concerning the national assembly as a legislative body. As well as us, Members and Members, for whom it is not enough to listen and see what can happen to people, we must also look for solutions and paths that would reduce the chances of too often reckless, irresponsible and slow action by various state authorities and other institutions in the face of all those hardships and injustices that can affect people. This would also strengthen the Ombudsman’s importance and authority. As I have so far participated in the consideration of all the Ombudsman's reports, it is a very interesting trend to monitor the Ombudsman's reports in the National Assembly. The 1995 and 1996 reports were discussed in 1997. At that time, very few Members participated in the hearing at the almost empty hall. Without the presence of government representatives and the media, she went unnoticed through the public. In 1999, we discussed the 1997 report. Several fellow Members and colleagues have already participated in the debate, but also at the time without representatives of the ministries. Last year we discussed the Ombudsman's 1998 report. In my opinion, the report was very serious for all the members of the group. In the debate, the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State from the Ministry of the Interior participated. This time we see progress already in the fact that the government has prepared its opinion on the reports for the first time and that Minister Bizjak and Bohinc have also participated on the parental committee alongside the Ombudsman. At a meeting of the National Assembly in March of the previous year, when I examined the Ombudsman's 1998 report, I stressed that many of the problems people are facing are also the result of inadequate, incomplete or missing legislation. The report at the time indicated that at least 20 legislative proposals should be amended, supplemented or re- tabled if they wanted to follow the specific warnings of the Ombudsman. We ourselves, as the opposition party, have tabled some of the legal texts and have thus accelerated the resolution of some problems, such as the Free Legal Aid Act, the Hospital Protection and the Protection of Mental Health Rights Act. In addition, we have achieved the inclusion of the Maintenance Fund in the Guarantee Fund. Now our situation is different, much more demanding, because we are a government party. We are aware that our responsibility to establish the Ombudsman is even greater. Compared with the previous Ombudsman's 1999 and 2000 reports, we find that some of the problems remain largely the same, including in the area of missing and incomplete legislation. Given our current position, it's certainly not enough to just find out. Therefore, as a co-responsible government party, we will propose, above all, that I say in the nickname 'our ministers', which, of course, other coalition parties can also do to examine where they should and where they can take into account the Ombudsman's warnings and incorporate them into the emerging legislation. There is quite a dissatisfaction with administrative procedures within the public administration. The issue of police powers is also currently being raised, as more complaints are being made about the use of coercive means. Delays in the distribution of citizenship need to be addressed. While the Labour Relations Act has not yet been adopted and is now preparing for a second hearing, it is now an opportunity for some of its solutions to be assessed also in the light of the most frequent complaints received by the Ombudsman from a particular area. For example, restrictions on the duration of employment for a certain period of time are more detailed arrangements for the termination of the employment relationship and so on. Within the government, we will advocate the speedy adoption of certain laws, such as the Law on Hospital Protection and Protection of Mental Health Rights, the first treatment of which was carried out in the spring of 2000. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are committed to what is already partly summarised in the conclusions of the Committee of the Mothers, in order that the drafter of the law - this is, of course, the most often the Government - has already written in his explanation of the law whether he has taken into account the warnings of the Ombudsman or why he has not been able to do so. Only in this way will we be able to establish a more concrete and binding attitude towards the Ombudsman's report. The consideration of the Ombudsman's reports must not remain merely a formal exercise and without agreement on the obligations of the State Assembly and government obligations. It would therefore make sense for the government to upgrade its opinion with concrete conclusions on what it will do within its powers to make things better, and we will also achieve an enviously high level of protection of human rights. Your Honor! I thank you for your attention, and at the same time I would like to announce that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support all the conclusions of the Internal Policy Committee. As a government party, however, we will always review individual marriage projects from the point of view of the Ombudsman's warnings and, already in the preparation of laws within the government's procedure, advocate that we incorporate them where it turns out that this is possible and necessary into marriage solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I invite the next one to the speaker stage, colleague Barovic. It will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Behind him is a colleague of Zupanova, the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Matjaž Hanžek, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and all present. I have participated in the Internal Policy Committee, both in the consideration of two reports and in the drafting of conclusions. In our discussion with the Group of Members, we have come up with some thoughts and conclusions that I would like to present in a very short time. I believe that you also share with me the view that each individual Member in this National Assembly is one piece of assistance to the Ombudsman, because we meet many people in our parliamentary offices looking for such and different rights. There are many among us who might, on the basis of the testimony of individuals, not of course all of them, have also said that this or these guardian had no or sometimes a lack of obedience to all the problems. However, the report, which we all had the ability to read and see together, is at least - according to colleagues in the Slovenian National Party Group - an excellent basis for further analysis. We did not want to draw any specific decision that would be in the minutes to tell me that this report should be a basic one for some analysis, because we believe that all the critical elements in this report will be required in the competent services - I speak online, not just to the government, not just to the public administration, everywhere - precise analytical processing. We also like the slightly more frank words of Mr Matjaž Hanžk and his warning to the work of the government, not because, as an opposition, we would not or would always like to criticize the work of the government - no; because this frank and honest word is still an additional argument for analysis, and so that we can correct everything that is wrong. After all, it is not our goal to bring down ministers and governments just to destroy them. Our goal is that the work carried out by the government as an executive branch of power will be good. And an excellent draft for good work in the field, in all areas of life Slovenk and Slovenes is just a report by the Ombudsman. Good analytical work in addressing this report will certainly lead us to participate constructively in amending inadequate legislation, inadequate legal and sub-laws, and to introduce the necessary control where the autonomy of individuals is - and I will say again, it is not only an administrative area - too large; where people take democracy, those who dream of situations, as anarchy and absolution, but not democracy. Most of the problems faced by the Ombudsman and faced by our colleagues are mainly a reflection of the lack of respect for both legal and sub-legislative acts and, as I have already said, a misinterpretation of democracy. The report also showed in its elements that it is not free to talk much about efficiency or, rather, the inefficiency of the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia, its decisions and the status of judges. But that's another area. Above all, or the Ombudsman's report has given us something else to know that there are certain, forgive foreign, marginal areas in Slovenia. So peripheral areas for which we don't have time, not we in the National Assembly, not government, not people in public administration. These areas will also need to be analysed, sought and offered assistance. If I say that it is necessary to offer assistance to the Ombudsman when we talk about the need to offer two more, three, four more, perhaps, people who will help the Ombudsman in specific areas, I do not think that this is helping him. I am sure that this will help people who seek human rights where they belong: the Ombudsman. The conclusions drawn up on the Committee are certainly just the beginning, in fact just one synthesis of this report. I am sure that conclusions will also be drawn on other, mesa or micro, i.e. medium and detailed areas resulting from the analysis of this report. I am also convinced that we will all agree with the conclusions and call on the Ombudsman to make the work as it has begun, consistently and to benefit and assist the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I give my word to my colleague Majda Zupan. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. She'll be followed by a colleague named Rupar. Comrade Zupan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, Mr. Minister, Government representatives, House of Respect. Members of New Slovenia are closely monitoring the work of the Ombudsman, so I would like to point out only some of the issues in the report regarding the comments on the Government's report. I think that individual or specific cases will also be presented by my colleagues. The Ombudsman recalls the overcrowding of Slovenian prisons. In the medium and long term, it is not expected that the number of prisoners and detainees will be reduced, on the contrary. Over the last five years, the number of prisoners has been increasing, which reminds us that investment is needed in this area. Although a new prison is being built in Cyprus, there is a great deal of need for adaptation of existing prisons and for which the government devotes little resources. It is also true that the standard of prisoners is falling seriously, as there is also a decline in the standard of a huge number of Slovenian citizens who barely provide their families with a minimum level. Poverty also constitutes a violation of human rights. In any event, it is in line with basic civilisation standards to enable prisoners to live with dignity. Warnings by the Ombudsman in the field of mental health care should be taken with extreme seriousness. Persons with mental disabilities are extremely vulnerable and powerless to protect their rights, and it is therefore important to be particularly careful not to be harassed and tortured by employees in these institutions. The problem of long-standing judicial proceedings has been lingering for quite too long and has been reported to the Ombudsman for several years. It is sad that the government is preparing such laws as you have to amend and supplement after a year or two. It also stated in its report that, in preparing the amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance, which was adopted with a large pump two years ago, it was necessary to amend it again. In the field of labour law, the backlog is the largest, and at the same time the parties in these procedures are often existentially at risk, so in the government report we lack solutions to how it will resolve matters in this area. The Ombudsman points out, in relation to police procedures, to inappropriate detention facilities. In its reply, the government only indicated that it would carry out maintenance work in accordance with existing funding. That doesn't mean much. We would also like to draw attention to cases of domestic violence when police officers do not respond in time to an emergency call. Domestic violence is no less dangerous, but it is highly hidden. Otherwise, the police want more control over people, so it is necessary to resist everyone, every violation in this area. In the event of a violation of human rights, it will be particularly evident in the eyes of the denial of health documentation. Particular attention shall be paid to returning property to former owners. The competent authorities must adhere to the laws and there must be no excuses for delay. We thank the Lord of Human Rights for all he has done in this area, and we want the government to listen to him more. We are convinced, however, that some of his statements or comments were not in the spirit of the Ombudsman, especially when he was asked what he thought about the Archbishop’s statements. This feels like a mistake, like an abnormal situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Zupanov. The parliamentary positions of the Socialist Party's Group will be presented by counterpart Paula Rupar and will also exhaust the presentations of the Group's Members. On behalf of the SLS+SKD Group - okay? Comrade Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Hanžek, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are disappointed by the Social Democrats over the Ombudsman's report. Disappointed only because it's an unscrupulous story, the continuation of a report from the past, the previous one, and who knows how many years ago. Of course, we express our recognition to the Ombudsman for such work. To work to accept people, to take in their problems, and to stab and warn about irregularities with his team. This year or in the 1999 and 2000 report, we can again find the same addresses: problems of social protection, citizenship, police, prosecution, lawyers, denationalisation, problems in prisons, violations of the rights of workers, farmers, not to say children, but we do wonder what we will do: the government, the national assembly, all those who are loved and called to hear the Ombudsman's report. We don't do anything. Our big mistake is to take the report into our hands, we say, oh, Janzek wrote something again, we can't wait for it to be-- [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] I'm sorry. We can't wait for the meeting to be over, and then we'll say good-bye until next year. And the story just repeats itself. That words appear as "I will not tire you with comments on the Ombudsman's report" or that representatives in this national council of government parties are saying that they will warn the government to do something is short-cited nonsense. The government is the one who should read the report from point to point and point out which laws are those that need to be amended in order to make the next report better so that a compliment to the Ombudsman and a compliment to the government, as well as to the national assembly which will adopt these laws. It is very rare, however, to see a correction of a law adopted in Parliament and returned to implementation, but it is not being implemented. So again, we've made a circle that repeats and repeats itself, and with our demands for the exercise and respect of rights, people keep going to the same address. I would like to point out that each of us who are called upon is obliged to do at least a small part to eliminate the consequences of disregarding human rights in this country. Nor is the National Assembly, including the College of the President of the National Assembly, not that we are given a agenda, such as this meeting, when the first 15 points are exclusively money. Money, money, money. Capital. That it is a second part of this agenda: ratifications, agreements, approximations to the European Union. I say that it is true, but we do not have a single law at the entire meeting to eliminate the smallest detail mentioned in the 1999 and 2000 report as a warning. I believe that, however, from the government to the national assembly, we can be ashamed of our disrespect for the work of the collective and of the Ombudsman and that we do not want and want our citizens to live better, but, above all, that their rights, which are enshrined in the Constitution and other laws, are also respected. Therefore, I would like to point out in the end only that we Social Democrats will try to draw attention to the agenda at each meeting of this National Assembly and to the laws that will or will be, as we expect, still will not be, regarding the resolution of the problem. However, we want everyone to be overlooked and to respect the name of democracy, which is called the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. My friend Christmas, will you present the position of the parliamentary group? Please present the position of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party, and by my list you will be the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Ombudsman and Mr. Minister, welcome. In our party, we have considered every report of the Ombudsman carefully, and we have also invited the Ombudsman to our interview. We agree with the report of the Internal Policy Committee and will also support all the proposed conclusions. Maybe it's wrong to comment, but it would be wise to repeat something my predecessor said. Here, in this Chamber, we will adopt laws that will come, that will regulate what the Ombudsman requires for years and years. We're ready to accept that. We have been prepared and we have also run for the Ombudsman again, but today this is the Minister of Justice. I think and I hope that he will bring on the bench in our congregation many of the laws he has already proposed and that we will also confirm them. Then I ask that you all have the understanding that we will also adopt such a law and not bring it to time indefinite, but as soon as possible. That's our wish. For just saying that we support the conclusions proposed by the Ombudsman is not enough. The law governing matters criticized by the Ombudsman is here, in this Chamber, preferred to be adopted quickly and this is the wish of our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, buddy Christmas. By presenting the views of your parliamentary group, we have exhausted the presentations of the fellow Members, Majda Shirca, on behalf of the parliamentary group, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Surely it is not to ignore the weight of the report, which is one or almost the only legitimate or most powerful tool the guardian has in his hands, if I say that his power is "sometimes quite reduced to a symbolic level" - to the level of the observer and warner, the one who warns and observes. Of course, I'm not limiting or limiting the role of the guardian to his, I'm going to say, "therape effects." The report is certainly an institutional, legal act that articulates tensions and irregularities, and certainly shortcomings in our environment. On the other hand, it is not a matter of ignoring the weight of the report because civil society movements, which have been stronger, more effective in the past, in the 1990s or today, are less present than before, in some way logical, given that democracy is not supposed to spread the breach, but rather restrict it; even more, democratic regulation should not allow them at all. Today, when I look in a global sense, not only in Europe or in our space, it certainly shows a different nature of the so-called democracy or of the global misunderstanding of equality between people; even more, it shows fear of passions that arise as a cover on a pot where unsettled tensions are suppressed. This month’s events in the world strongly warn of this. And I am happy or I think that, when I speak for myself, it is only right that the Ombudsman in this sentence simply pointed to what I have just said. However, it is certainly quite embarrassing and difficult to hear the summaries that we have chosen from this report. First of all, it is difficult for us in the National Assembly to deal with the fact that two reports are being dealt with at once, which means that the weight - although, as I say, is quite symbolic - has already been reduced by the fact that the report has not been considered at all. It's very, very hard to face sentences like [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	I can stop you. Someone's on the phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	that we have laws that cannot be enforced, as the Ombudsman has pointed out today, that violations of laws and regulations are very widespread and that communication between officials, both at the state and municipal levels with citizens, is in fact nothing and that the unethicality of civil servants is very present. Even though the government, as has been pointed out, should have read for the first time at all, as you said, the Ombudsman - despite the fact that the government has done this for the first time, it is not appropriate to ignore its conclusions and should not overlook those measures that are present within this report. So, the legal movements that have taken place in the sense of the worst signs of human rights violations, both at the legal level, at the level of infrastructure and other interventions, which are ultimately also brought about by the anti-biocratic programme, the effects of which we will receive - I suppose - in a positive sense. In the Liberal Democracy, we have proposed that the Ombudsman take advantage of his right to submit a partial report to the National Assembly in addition to the annual report, not only at a time when certain issues are more topical, but in general. In view of the opportunities we have, and in view of the fact that we often find ourselves in a position to be detached from the reality with which the Ombudsman has already met much more in his nature than we have, we will be happy with each such report. But the fact is that the marriage solutions - not only of marriage, but also of those, today, as you say, of the weak bylaws, which I agree with ourselves, we agree - do not always solve the problems that are sometimes suppressed, saying that they are solved, pushed into the subconscious and then beat out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. I'm asking, does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I would like to inform you that five of our colleagues or four have applied in writing, if I understand now: colleague Bernik, Sok, Juri and Lavrinc. Comrade Visak?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	I'm sorry, I signed up in writing and you didn't read me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	We'll take a look. Yeah, you're right, you're first. You're the first. Comrade Visjak, you have the first word. Thank you very much for that warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, of course, the respectable Ombudsman. My discussion and my performance will mainly be in one part of this report. Above all, I will focus on a matter that I know relatively well and which work I have done before this Member's term of office, but it is matters relating to working relations and to the resolution of disputes relating to working relations. The Ombudsman in the 2000 report identifies the nature of the labour relations initiatives themselves. This means that the number of these initiatives has increased, as is illustrated by the fact that this issue is sharpened and becomes even more acute than in the past years, when we have already seen that it is very delicate. This is not the last thing we see in everyday life, and I find it very disturbing to find out which irregularities are, and, of course, that we have a new labour law in the parliamentary procedure - I myself estimate that the new labour law will not significantly reduce this and I am actually sure that it will even increase it. Look. I've been doing my own work as an inspector for almost five years, and I have some experience on this basis. Above all, I have seen the despair of people in the field, when they are both formal and, of course, - this is also said - the legal standard does not satisfy their rights, but judicial protection as a result. If we're just talking about the illegality of breaking up a working relationship. The new Labour Relations Act will be based on a contractual principle only on a contractual principle, which means that the employer and the employee of a type of contract will also be a party to the legality of these concluded contracts, as well as certain fundamental rights of the worker arising from some other laws - this is said in general legality - and will not be checked by anyone. In this contractual relationship, the worker is a significantly weaker contracting party. Of course, at the outset, the worker will also agree to a very controversial relationship from the point of view of legislation. This, of course, will cause new and new disputes between the worker and the employer. Today we know the solutions, when especially for small employers, this is for independent entrepreneurs, they register or verify the legality of contracts by administrative authorities; this means that those contracts come at least through some filter into force. That is to say, the registration of these contracts is a condition for the validity of these contracts after employment. This offers some, at least that minimum, legal protection of the worker to the employer. The new arrangement will no longer know. Which means that, from practice, I can tell you this, we will have a significantly higher number of illegal contracts on the market or in practice that will result in a conflict only when problems arise between the worker and the employer and not before. At that time, however, it is usually too late to solve anything and the matter will end up in court first and again, and of course, the worker will be able to look for his right and his epilogue; only after some very long path. I don't think that's appropriate. I would like to point out that the new law will not solve these problems and will increase them more. That is why I believe that some instruments, registrations, verifications of these contracts should be introduced here alone. Not from the subject of content, not from the title, what will be the salary, what will be the holiday, especially on the basis of legality. The Labour Relations Act lays down the framework of this Treaty, the legal framework. Some other legislation builds on it, upgrades it. It will be very difficult if no one, before the validity of this Treaty, at least "prespects" in terms of legality. I therefore propose that one prior protection of infringements is already in this respect. In particular, it is due to these matters originating in the 2000 report. I would also find it difficult to agree with the section of Chapter 2.6 which discusses working relationships and unemployment, that labour inspection does not have sufficient authority. We have a new law on the inspection of work, and we also have complementary legislation on the inspection of work. Labour inspection is regulated by the new latest legislation, as far as this is concerned. And the efficiency of the inspectors is, of course, quite substantial and sufficient. But it is true that, like all other inspections, the work inspectorate also faces those typical problems. And one that I think you mentioned would have been here. It's this one, so-called e-state or whatever we call it. Inspection today does not have access to databases, to the data it urgently needs in its daily work. Let me give you an example. If the labour inspector detects a worker and wants to check the status, he must first ask the employment agency in writing whether a work permit has been issued for him or - that is to say, if he is a foreigner - whether he is registered as unemployed there. It takes 14 days to get the letter back. All this communication: whether it is registered for health insurance, whether it is registered for pension insurance, all this communication lasts and this is totally unsustainable, because the inspection has the right to this data, but it is accessible in an extremely outdated way. Therefore, I think that if this country is serious about this so-called e-government and this e-commerce, it is particularly important that different officials in many areas have access to those bases to which they are entitled under the law. This is where I can finally connect to this anti-biocratic program. See, the anti-biocratic programme will not be achieved by the fact that we will be independent entrepreneurs, but rather by simplifying these procedures, especially in the sense that an individual is not obliged to go to five addresses, to five officials on the same papers or similar papers, if these officials can obtain them on an official basis. I don't know if anything's done in this area. We have seen one proposal on how to service the anti-biocratic programme by amending the company law about a few months ago - this is not the right approach. The fact that we no longer impose on independent entrepreneurs or any other company the acquisition of a permit related to the fulfilment of certain technical conditions seems to me that this is a poor journey to an anti-biocratic programme. Once again, I am sure that if officials are aware that they are citizens, an anti-biocratic programme will be achieved. And if they are going to work under the General Administrative Procedure Act, what is their duty today, that if they are able to obtain information on an official duty not to burden the customer, it seems to me that this is the way we will simplify the procedures, but of course that all the administrative authorities also adhere to the deadlines already prescribed for them. This is not the case, and here is the first step, in my opinion, to the implementation of this anti-biocratic programme. I've gone a little bit into this anti-biocratic program here, and I'd keep working. The key protection for the protection of workers' rights is judicial protection. Even in the future, when this contract becomes even more heavy, this is said to be decisive in the application of the new Labour Relations Act. If the worker gets an epilogue in court in a short time, the contract of employment will be an effective means. If that is not the case, it will be an extremely poor means and guardian of human rights, believe me, you will have more than too much to do or three times more than that now. If the implementation of the Labour Relations Act does not do something at a speed, simplifying procedures, judicial proceedings in those fundamental infringements of these employment contracts, it will be a huge case for the courts, as there will generally be disputes over non-compliance with these contracts. I think that a settlement institute should be established here, including a possible institution to transfer certain powers to an inspection where matters are obvious and trivial. Therefore, I believe that these two problems - the implementation of the new Labour Relations and Labour and Social Courts Act and the Judicial Procedure Act - need to be harmonised so that they can somehow be brought into existence in a coordinated and harmonised manner. I'd like to touch another issue. The Ombudsman notes a significantly increased and problematic area of disability insurance, where the index is even 123.2. Otherwise, the Ombudsman does not state the reasons and the reasons for those matters, but also in everyday life and even in the context of his work I have done, I note that this is due mainly to a reduced cash pension and disability insurance, that those people who are obviously disabled do not release the disability commission into a disability pension - either by half or even - but are artificially maintained in a work relationship. These people are, of course, practically in hospital for years, but at the same time they don't get the status. This situation is unsustainable. I am even sure that there are some signals here for these disabled commissions not to send too many of these people - despite professional arguments and health arguments - into disability insurance so as not to burden this cash register. On the other hand, they charge cash on the other hand, which means absolutely nothing in terms of the global and the state budget. That is why I believe that something needs to be done in this area as well. I'm also grateful to the guardian for bringing these matters to his attention. I hope that with these comments I have also indicated a solution to this report. But I'll try to keep it that way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Visac. Next comes a colleague of Dr. Bernik, a colleague of Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ombudsman, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of parliament! Since I know all the reports that have been issued by your office so far, I think your last report is progress and congratulations. I think a few good words have been said about your work; but now I'm going to take a slightly more unpopular position to talk about some unpopular things. And these are things that have always been unpopular and even in a dangerous territory in which the former and present Ombudsman has not been able to approach. First, let me say that this office is actually close to people, at least it should be close to people. However, given that this report and all previous reports are printed on elegant paper and luxuriously equipped, I doubt that this report is distributed to people and accessible to people in the same number as it should be. Therefore, the recommendation I have to issue this report on plain paper, etc. And it was distributed unto men, even unto us messengers, so that we may give this report unto the people that come unto us. In any case, I think we should also consider how your office is organized. Sometimes they know a system where they use different practitioners, perhaps students of law, etc., to get acquainted with these problems and also to start exploring the problems that have been solved or what things on the ground that you do not have the capacity to do. Thus, I think, on the one hand, the work would be more successful, covering a number of problems, but on the other hand, people who study law or elsewhere would be familiar with the problems common people face. This would also broaden the concept of our democracy. As I have already said, I will talk about some less popular things, and this is simply that it is not in your report, not in your present, nor in any previous report by Mr Bisak, who was your predecessor, mentioned some very important things. I don't know how you understand the concept of human rights. In the United States, once a year - on a very interesting concept, expressed in a way: "Human rights are like clothing from the whole canvas. If you want to wear clothes, you can't share them." So it's all about human rights, even if it's unpopular. Well, human rights are Sundays. When a new cemetery was recently discovered, maybe you picked up something, I didn't see it, if you did, I'm sorry if you didn't, but I'm very interested in why. For this cemetery shows the signs of a crime that occurred many years ago, but we sit here and talk about all other things, but that the rights of those who were killed after the war are violated, and they point to crimes, is not said. Some formality happens, and then everything stops and the bones go to Maribor, where they are then made to be buried - maybe. I was talking to you when you came to our group to talk to us about your concept. Of course we all voted for you. At that time, I also told you the theoretical problem - there is no name and so on - what would you have done if you had come to such a state. That's what it means to discover things that you didn't know before that people were buried here - nothing happens. What would you do? You answered me a little naively to call a press conference. I didn't go through with it, and I'd be happy if we called her. Of course, what they'd say there is another thing. So, I'm asking you what you're going to do about these post-war crimes. It's been half a century since, they don't have a name, they don't have an ID, they don't have a grave, they don't have a monument, they can't finish their mourning - so in civilization it's natural. And the state also suffers because it cannot arrange the cadastral, because the death certificate is not issued. I understand that you and your forefather have written a little bit about these things, but the Ombudsman's not for writing and nothing is done. Here's the territory that you must step upon with determination, no fear, no matter who you step on. And I don't think you've done this and it's a grave violation of human rights to the dead, because the dead are also worthy of respect under our constitution. Let me ask you this. Last year a book called No Mercy was published, which documented that after the war the wounded were taken from the hospitals and then disappeared. However, the documents on this remained. I don't know if you know this book. I don't know if Mr. Bizjak knew her. This happened last year. The D.A. didn't say anything. Yes, for God's sake, what a state of law we are!? We sit here and nothing happens. So, Mr. Ombudsman, I hope that you will extend your concept of human rights and also stand here for the people to whom these rights have been denied. If you cannot or do not want to do this, I will suggest that the National Assembly appoint a special Ombudsman for this area. We are now in a pathetic state when we have been going through various stages in the last 50 years, namely killings, post-war killings, state secrecy, then advertising for criminals - these were Slovenian citizens - and then an apology. Very nice, but this apology cannot be a substitute, a satisfaction to people who have suffered injustice. Nor can these excuses be the beginning of the reconciliation that we so urgently need. Look, when I read these things about human rights, I ran into someone, I'd say, a human rights lawyer in England who's thinking about these things and also saying that silence or then: czech, reconciliation and so on is a sign of shameful cowardice or a desire to hide things. At the same time, Hanna Aren says, "people are incapable of forgiveness, which we cannot punish." Well, I disagree with this philosophy, although it is true that criminals should be identified and also brought to justice. But I am not here to defend this, I am currently advocating that those who are buried without honor, without the dignity to return it to them. And please, Mr Human Rights Ombudsman, think about it and act on it. I wish you great success in this and I hope that we will have a good dialogue on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Minister, the other representatives of the government, the distinguished colleague and colleagues! In fact, I am one of the younger Members of this National Assembly, I would say, with short parliamentary work and with short experience in this work. But I must say that what my fellow Member, Dr. Bernik, said to me before is of concern to me, who was born many, many years after the war. If we had not completed these matters, this should actually concern us all, because this places an enormous burden on our present reality, birekels, even our future, if we do not clear this up. The cases that were discovered in Slovenska Bistrica are shocking. We are talking about Srebrenica, mass graves in Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia, but we are not talking about what happened just over half a century ago on our soil where we live. So, this is really very worrying. Now I'm going to tell you why I applied for this debate. More than just a report by the Ombudsman, I was forced into this debate by the government and by an additional report or report from the Internal Policy Committee. I don't have enough time to compare this matter thoroughly, but I did quickly, thanks to this, because through the government's information centre we have all the views, all the conclusions and everything in our computer network stored. When I quickly compared this, I found that, in fact, these things appear more or less from year to year: the same, similar conclusions as those mentioned here. And from this I conclude that things are not actually being resolved. I do not know at the end what the debate on the report itself is about: or whether it is sufficient for the procedure itself, which the legislation requires that the national assembly should consider and, if possible, adopt a report, or whether this is intended to move something in our reality, to change and to do something differently. In its report, the Ombudsman points out one major problem: there is still an incomplete, inconsistent or missing legislation in various procedures in different areas. And that is, of course, that true observation, both to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to this national assembly, which does not deal with these matters more quickly. However, the second thing I would like to draw attention to, and which I would like to discuss a little more broadly, is, of course, the failure to implement this legislation. So, something that is called willpower, disrespect, or could be said in a single word: a misdemeanor. Look, denationalization is such a problem. The legislation has been clear, the Constitutional Court has given its opinion only once, three times or even four times. It's all clear here, there's nothing new to be discovered here. We need to make this happen in the way that the law provides. However, the State Prosecutor's Office is repeatedly, as the State institution says, complaining about the decisions that have been issued, causing the proceedings to be irritated, delaying them, in fact causing a cost to that State and to us in the eyes of the European Community, where we would like to come, making the proceedings incompetent or making us irresponsible interlocutors. Three cases of such extraordinary will, which, of course, is contrary to existing legislation, I would like to put in place. On page 34, let's say - I like the fact that the Ombudsman has given specific cases in the report, that is, those we know ourselves, much from practice, so it is easier to discuss this report. On page 34, the problem is raised in the working social court. This is where he stated the situation where there has been a conflict in the higher working and social court in Ljubljana for three years, and then notes that social security and the human dignity of those or those persons who have been in this court have been seriously compromised due to the length of the proceedings. Really, how can we imagine that such a process takes three years! I myself know the banal case in a nine-year case in a court of law. How can a person who has lost his job spend nine years? I ask you all, you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. How could he have stayed on the road for nine years without any income? What makes you think there's a court of law that doesn't end a case for nine years? The guardian pointed out miles to nine years, he mentions the case when he was three years old, but it is already essential too much. Another such case is listed on page 36, subtitled Can the offended court be impartial? The case, which began in 1993, is again under consideration at the district court in Novi Grad and did not end until 2000. Since it did not end in 2000, the injured person read to this court the following: She wrote to the court. In this letter, she reported to the court that the case was: the first - "inflamed" case; the second - that there were bastards who were resting; the third - if they were not able to judge, the other judges should come and they should go and shoot manure; the fourth - that they should think only of holidays and the fifth - that their customers were receiving money from them and that they did not have to work. The Public Prosecutor defined all of this as an insult to the court, and that person, who had been unable to complete his proceedings for seven years, was still on trial for the same year with a lawsuit against her. So, I don't know, maybe these are really serious insults - I don't know what to do. So, if I go in line. That they're "infuriated" can't be an insult, because if someone doesn't work for seven years, it's definitely "infuriated". So that they're "trembling bastards" -- I went to look at the ethymological dictionary, what the word "barabbas" means; it says: malnourished, worthless. I hope I don't have to look for any more immunity if I can confirm that someone who's seven years of age doesn't end up in some kind of thing that's really a bastard. That if they're not capable, the other judges should come, and they'll shoot the shit. I don't know. I don't know. Then to think only of holidays, and the last to receive money from customers and that they do not have to work. Of course, customers have to pay a tax because we are citizens, because, like judges, citizens pay us from the budget. What, in this case, would you like to know, is that this prosecutor went and filed a lawsuit against this person? I would have taken this matter differently myself. It is said that the prosecution protects the court and expresses itself by bringing an action against this person, his power, intimidation and in some way disciplining her. Thus, the citizens of this country simply must not say anything, because if we report anything to the court, it can be understood as an insult and then we are the ones who will be, even if the court has not decided for seven years, we will be the ones who will be killed. Then, by writing the judgment — on page 38 — the judge waited for the lengthening of the prosecution. It's a sin in heaven. Thus, the judge did not write the judgment for so long that the matter was outdated and that the party could no longer exercise its rights. Ladies and gentlemen! For such eccentric violations of rights and our legislation, it is not necessary to write a whole bunch of conclusions to the Internal Policy Committee, which begin with "the National Assembly agrees..., speed up and develop..., it is necessary to speed up..., the National Assembly to study..., the National Assembly proposes..., the National Assembly proposes... the Government should... and the 8th Decision relating to what I have been talking about is to say about abnormally long procedures before the courts - 8th Decision says: "In view of the still pending judicial backlogs, everything must be done to make things more effective..." and so on. I would suggest, instead of all these decisions, one simple conclusion: one who does not enforce and does not comply with legislation that works contrary to the legal principles adopted must be held accountable. And how does he have to answer? If the court does not complete within a normal period of time or if the judge does not write the action, suggest! [[...]] Mr Christmas mentioned here earlier that when they come to law, he expects our support. Of course we will support them, just in law write: "The one who violates this law will lose his job." These would be the real conclusions of this National Assembly. So if the judge didn't write the verdict, it means he's out of a job. What, then, is the point of making or accepting this report? The point, I believe, is that the National Assembly would adopt a binding decision that would move these matters. Because, as long as we're just going to talk about these things and then we're going to say, as usual: who's behind the report with the additional conclusions, and then we're done, then, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't done anything. Surely there is a greater responsibility on the coalition, which represents a position in this national council than on the opposition. This is probably what you agree with me, because you are the one who must and should propose appropriate legislation and that appropriate legislation should also be adopted. We can help you to do so, but we cannot do so, not in accordance with your coalition agreement, which states that you will not accept any of our proposals. Let me finish. Well, it's not enough just to point out these problems. I think that the National Assembly should decide that legislation must be enforced. However, those who do not enforce legislation must respond in some way, either criminally or in the way that I have suggested that if they so eloquently violate the law, the judgment should not be written down to lose their job. These would be the right solutions. Everything else, of course, is making a fog and a debate without real value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be much shorter. To return to the praises he originally gave to a number of people. I am also very much grateful to join in this, and I would like to give further recognition to the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžk, for the promptness of reacting to the concepts, statements, behaviours in our policy, in our institutions, in our society, which, in the field of human rights protection, breathes as derogations and derogations. All thanks also for the recent rapid reaction to the inappropriate declaration of one of our important policies, which, in the event of events in the United States and with terrorism, has, of course, simplified and somehow divided society, modern society into civilised and barbaric. You know what caused the statement made yesterday or before yesterday by the Italian Prime Minister, who triggered the anger - not only of the Islamic world, but of all advanced Europe, when he divided civilization into: Western, modern, respectful to freedom and Islamic, of course, as inferior. It is not only that when this global anti-terrorist coalition is formed, it is extremely harmful, but also that such a person is treated with disrespect for human rights. That is why I call on you, Mr. Guardian, to continue to be so impromptu, up-to-date, encouraging us, including our Members, even each of us, who has a public function and who also co-forms public opinion. From this title we must also set ourselves a more tolerant attitude towards all these phenomena and not so easily simplify all situations and in particular divide people and society into black and white, good and bad, and so on. Again, all confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik wishes to replicate Mr Juri's performance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to briefly replicate my fellow Member Yuri. You mentioned "promptly, up-to-date", a statement by the Ombudsman when he commented on the statement made by the exposed Slovenian policy, in this case the Foreign Minister. My opinion is different, Comrade Yuri. The Ombudsman went into a political discourse with this will or unwillingness, he was embroiled with politics, with a government representative. He's got every right, but he's gone into political space with it. He's entered a political space. Mr. Bizjak didn't do that. As it is said, this was Mr Hanžk's decision, which, as such, is fully legitimate. But it is a matter of time before we may have to argue with the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament. And there will be no misunderstanding: the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia reacted correctly and perhaps his statement was misinterpreted. That's my personal opinion. As it is said, it is before the Ombudsman, as he said before - and I very much appreciate his position - that Mr Bizjak has given him a good heritage - and this is a position that I am pleased with - which is what profile, what style, what image he will shape in his work. Each to seal his work and through your dialogue, with this controversy with the Foreign Minister, you have introduced new methods of communication. You have entered a political space, and as such you will also be treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, a replica of the performance of Mr Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Ombudsman. In this sense, I repeat to my colleague Yuri's statement, when it is also - let me start the same - that Mr Hanžek was impetuous, harsh and able to react to a statement, and also to his final thought that there is no allowable division into dark, white and black and so on. I fully agree with this, but I do know that I may have overlooked whether Comrade Juri has ever protested or agreed so delicately, reacted to any other statements, and also perhaps called on the Ombudsman to protest himself. On this occasion, when I also partly agree with my colleague Podobnik, that at that difficult time when the current world public was appalled, the minister would also say a little more difficult words: are you as much as you protested against Minister Rupl's statements as racist, or have you also protested because of the state prosecutor's statement from Maribor that he was going to the bunker in Slovenia Bistrica for the employees of the invader. I am from Slovenia Bistrica, and I must say that I have been contacted by relatives of the victims who believe that their relatives were killed in this bunker. And they felt hurt and disgusted over such qualifications. To make it perfectly clear that no one will tell me that I'm defending any of the employees of the invader. My family suffered bitterly under Nazism, too. And they were also wronged by the "non-schuckers" and "culturbunds" in that area. However, I must state my father's testimony that he taught us that they ended up there in that bunker, because in Bistrica it was common knowledge, even some Slovenian citizens of the German tribe, who were so honest that they did not cooperate with the invader, even helped the partisans and felt innocent and did not leave in time. Because those who did these wrongs took their heels away in time. And I think - I hope you will answer Mr Hanžek, whether you protested against this prejudice. In the face of an extremely current situation today, in the face of this terrorist attack, when it happened, the whole world demands that the background of who ordered these killings be revealed for this terrorism. And when we witness to the Hague court, they belong to the Croatian generals who committed war crimes. I think it is perfectly clear to all of us that probably those killed, by mistake, in Croatia, civilians were sympathizers and sympathizers of the Croatian occupation, were Serbian sympathizers and perhaps even lobbyists. However, this does not limit the world’s public not to judge them, and it is proper to prosecute them. And we need to make a parallel out of this after 50 years. Some things are perfectly clear in our country, too, and they need to be done. In doing so, I would say that for many reasons, as my colleagues have previously stated before me, this is a finding by the culprits, a case before the courts and all this is necessary for our future. For these and future generations. So we don't live with this mortgage. At the same time, of course, I am already saying and I am taking the initiative that when the prosecutions are here at work - here I hope you will react to encourage the prosecutions, but I hope that there will be a clarification of this barbarism in Slovenia - that when the courts do their work, if there are court orders, that I am already taking the initiative to declare abolition after the sentence, perhaps by law in this national assembly, for those who have caused these crimes. I think it's punishment enough or at least punishment to live with the mortgage of guilt they lived with, because the people's voice in Slovenian Bistrica says that some are losing their minds, that they're getting involved, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	They are in such and different tribulations that they are Thank you very much. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Yuri. You've reached out to the word or to the reverse replica. Please allow me to cross today's agenda in the first part of your implementation. We are considering the Ombudsman's report for 1999 and 2000. The controversy that opened was an assessment of the Ombudsman's work in 2001. I don't think this is the subject of today's conversation, so I respectfully ask that we stick to the material we have in front of us in our statements. Here you are, Mr. Yuri, and then we proceed with Mr. Lavrine. For a little while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	I'm giving up my contract to my colleague Sponik. I'll just pick him up in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	First of all, I'd say I'm glad my friend Rupar joined us. To begin with, I would like to read a thought I read yesterday at Del's anecdotes for today. "To speak and say nothing for some politicians is an extraordinary opportunity to express their thoughts." Why did I start it like that? Because I do not accept criticism at the expense of the fact that the conclusions are too general, absolutely not. In fact, those who forget that we have a constitution with us, which already in the introductory part says that in our country has a people in power and that this authority is exercised by three branches of authority; those, I will say, who you forget, can talk about what this national assembly will decide, which judge will be able to judge, which judge does not - of course, without proper proceedings and so on. In the same breath, you remember the injustices that occurred after the war and where it was done. I think there's something to be said about that. If a Member speaks here and disgraces the work of the assembly of the Members, it must be said out loud; but he shames him because of his own ignorance. For my understanding, that's rude. At this meeting of the National Assembly, there are five laws of twenty-three substantive ones that do exactly what the Ombudsman reminds us of. This is to start with the renovation of our public administration. Gentlemen, not until the 15th point, as mentioned here, but already at, say, the 12th point of inspection. Of course, it's just one of the ones I had in mind. That's the first one. The second is that someone underestimates that the country, though small, is still only a country, that it is not a small boat, where, for example, when you change direction, at a moment goes another way. That's not how it works. Here the results of our legislative work will be known, I am sure, only over so many years and so many years. It's like that all over the world. And only on the basis of the preparation of analyses when implementing some legislation is the power to say whether it is good or bad. To hurry, you always stress this, and to be mistaken, that is certainly a fact. I am confident that we will continue to amend the laws passed during this period for more than ten years. But don't mind me, in this case, those who are so flatly criticizing, you forget that we have got the country, that we have our own, that we are relatively on the right track, that we have only recently back, if I say, in some state history, the Institute of Human Rights; that we are acting differently today, as has already been established, as we have in the past. After all, the government has prepared something, has not prepared what we want, but has prepared something. We have also written a number of precise conclusions on the committee, gentlemen, and it is a shame - all of you have received a report from the Ombudsman - it is a shame that you have not prepared for a meeting of the committee, at which you can tell exactly what decision you are proposing. I didn't get any in advance! I didn't even get a fix today, not today! No one has proposed a correction of the decision, which is written here. See point 5, decision 5: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the government," otherwise we cannot, what, we will - no more executive council, gentlemen! - "to examine the appropriateness of legislation in relation to the protection of human rights in administrative procedures" and so on. Very precise, gentlemen, all you have to do is read. That's one. Secondly, I think you're forgetting something about all these criticisms at the expense of the administration. Our administration is facing very difficult issues, these are one-off project: denationalisation, correction of human injustices, new documents. In short, the burden of administration is much greater than it will be when we function normally. That's why we can't just walk away: things stand, they don't move. What we've done to make court proceedings move faster. I absolutely agree with the criticisms expressed here that there are particularly painful slow judicial proceedings when it comes to the work of the court in the field of labour relations. I have a case of my own. After 10 years, actually, a man is coming to me, and the procedure is still running. The problem with legislation in this area is that it is old so that even those who judge do not know how to deal with it, etc. Well, there's the law in preparation. Will this fully remedy the situation in these courts? I don't think so. Therefore, of course, it is expected from the Government that it will also take some concrete steps towards improving the working conditions of the labour and social courts. But I'll say one more thing. To draw up a budget is the art of possible. Many of the required changes, which are linked to the Ombudsman's warnings, require new and additional resources. Tell me where we're gonna take them. No, I'm not underestimating the problems you've raised in connection with the injustices that have been committed in the past, and I'm not the one who's supposed to be the guardian's lawyer. But I will tell you what you have been warned of: we have a report for 1999 and for 2000, let us not swim by ourselves, because we are only dealing with them today. I don't know, you forgot that last year we had a hell of a pace first with European legislation and secondly that we had elections. Of course, that's the way it normally gets out. So I'm going to say I'm pleasantly surprised by what's happened so far. With regard to these problems, as I mentioned, which were exposed here, and the injustices committed after the war, I am sure that this whole thing will be reflected in the 2001 report. I hope I haven't caused too many replicas. It is also true that it would be better for the future, in my opinion, if as many matters as possible to be dealt with after we have considered this report by the Ombudsman, are dealt with in segments. So that, among us, we have a representative of the government, but I am sure that, for example, what we would need in the field of labour law is someone else, someone from the Ministry who is preparing these things. It is not said that we have made ourselves perfectly clear, nor is it said that the one who reads the transcript or the minutes of the meeting of the national assembly will completely capture the thought that we wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Before allowing replicas to Mr Sok, Mr Rupar and then Mr Jerovšek and Mr Podobnik, allow me to inform you: the state world has finished its work. I propose to the National Assembly, after talking to Mr President, that it conclude today's consideration of the report, then it is time to take a break from doing its work to the Committee on Finance, and immediately after that we continue our extraordinary session. My assessment is, given that there are five more reported in the context of a limited debate, five minutes to be completed by one, but this is in your hands, but as soon as we have completed our consideration of the report, we will take a break so that the Committee on Finance can meet. Thank you very much. First, Mr Sok has the replica, then Mr Rupar and Mr Jerovšek, all for the implementation of Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Although Mr Lavrinc mentioned Mr Rupar's fellow Member, I was nevertheless stabbed by two matters in his implementation. First is what he said we should read. Do you really think, Mr. Lavrinz, that we don't read this? We're reading. Given that it is a smaller group of Members, you can imagine that we have much more work to do than you. But we read. If you go to the brother of this report because you mentioned denationalisation and the correction of injustices, you will be able to find in there a record of the Ombudsman's last half-year that these procedures have greatly accelerated. That's what it says. That's what the report says. So you can do it. But since you've been in power for seven, eight years, I've just addressed some things to the ruling coalition, or if you want, to your client who bears the greatest responsibility in this situation. I went to check it out. These conclusions, which I had previously been a brother, were very confusing for me and are repeated year after year. So, as far as the Internal Policy Committee's concerned. And second. You say, "talk, say nothing." It's just a subjective assessment. For you, what we said could be nothing. I can say that I feel the same way about what you said. So it doesn't matter. So I would ask you not to communicate with us in this way. So we point to problems that occur more or less from year to year. And no one thinks that this did not detract from the work of the National Assembly with this debate. On the contrary! We would like some things to be accelerated and done through this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Besides, I don't know why Mr Lavrinc cheered up my arrival at the hall, and I don't think he talked about my performance. Because, if it were, this would be a very negative picture for you, Madam Vice-President, because he has been embroiled by a member who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. However, I do not think that the debate on the opinion of the Group is admissible. Still, I would be very happy to warn him, because it was as good as a replica, otherwise I wouldn't have answered. There's something else. I am pleased and would often recommend, Mr Lavrinc, that you have read what you said yesterday somewhere very mundanely. Every time, because that's what's best for you. Right for you. No one in this assembly is as controversial as Mr Lavrinc. Why? Because the contents of his statements are really so deep that it causes this reflection. But I'm bound to say it. Finally, though, I would be very happy if I could or would listen to my colleagues. For example, I have not touched the conclusions of the Internal Policy Committee with a single word. Therefore, implementation and the joy of my coming to Mr Lavrinac goes completely in the negative or very wrong direction. So I would really ask for correctness, as well as respect for my colleagues, but most of the time, read sparks.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, Mr. Rupar. When it is time to present the opinions of the Group, the Group of Members does not have to argue with the representative who presented the Group's opinion before him, and in the general debate, the definitions of the individual Group of Members should be politicised. Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	I'm sorry, ma'am, he mentioned Rupar, and I represented the opinion of the parliamentary group. And if I could just get involved in any matter, then let the gentleman put himself in the opinion of the parliamentary group, not in Rupar. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. At Mr Lavrinc's performance, there was some news or -- how would I put it? But at the same time, I hope that Mr Lavrinc, when he mentioned it, criticised the fact that Members do not read the reports of the Ombudsman, had in mind his fellow Members from his parliamentary group. For after the reports, and then, after discussion, I believe that this could not fly to this site, because I still think we are working very hard and we can see from this that we have read these reports. And second of all, let's not spit on ourselves. I agree with that. I absolutely agree with this, but I would expect, but I do not know whether these decisions of the Committee on Internal Policy have, however, taken any critical view that obstruction and delay had prevented it last year to address the report of the Commissions of Inquiry, which also play an important role in the field of human rights. Indeed, at least some of the reports were from this human rights issue. And I would expect the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee to actually call on the Ombudsman to pay attention in the future also if a political group deliberately prevents the prepared report from being considered in the National Assembly, as Mr Lavrinc says at that time, that we had a hellish pace; but he did not apologize for stalling and delaying and obstructing. There's no excuse. This is if we agree elsewhere that the level of human rights needs to be ensured, then it is also necessary in this area - and the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee is specifically called to that effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I think I have two more replicas. Mr. Similar to the replica and then Mr. Jasa Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate to my fellow MP Lavrinco for a moment. I hope I don't cause his anger with my replica. I took very seriously his view that it was necessary to prepare well for both the working body and the plenary session. I have prepared myself well for one segment of the report. I'd like to explain first. You'll remember, dear colleagues, that we were in pre-election a year ago at this time. And you will recall that we were looking for solutions to consider the Ombudsman's report on September. In the meantime, there was a turbulent period of government exchange and I do not think that the 1999 report could be considered last year. However, it is true that we may be able to go earlier this year, but today I am showing respect to all those who have prepared today's treatment in such a good way; I think it is best so far. From the discussion by my colleague Lavrinc, the next question is the quality of conclusions and information. I have read very carefully the conclusions and also the first report and would like to ask, first of all, on the basis of the 1999 report, page 49, the area of the correction of injustices. I know this is a sensitive subject, painful, but it is and we have to deal with it. It reads: "In the initiatives of the relatives after the war-killed persons, the owners proposed that the Ombudsman initiate appropriate procedures with the legislative and executive authorities to detect, properly mark and protect graves as places of national importance." I'm aware that there's a War Cemetery Act in the procedure, and that part covers it. I hope it works out well, and I expect we'll accept it soon. Next: "...to identify and list Slovenian victims of post-war beatings..." - and this law does not regulate - "records their death in the mother books..." [[...]] Two years ago, we adopted an amendment to the Home Book Act. I want to know if this was a good solution. "provide to their relatives, after the officiality of the death certificate, publicly honors the dead, expresses regret to the survivors, and condemns killings to the public at large." [[...]] In some initiatives, there was also a requirement that the country should notify its relatives of the fate of their family members. I looked at the additional report with proposals for conclusions and also the debate, which was very extensive, on the working body. I didn't see anyone touch that question. But the question is, the problem is. I was greatly shaken by information about the new discovery of the mass grave in Styria. She really shook me up. It's our common pain. I think it would be good and wise to perhaps try to resolve this issue with one of the conclusions, with what we can do as a legislative body. I expect that the War Cemetery Act will be able to fully resolve this issue in the work it can solve. But there are some questions that this law will not solve. Comrade Lavrinc, was the debate on the working body also about this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	First of all, I would say that in the Committee's conclusions, the Committee's conclusions come about by suggesting something on the committee, otherwise it can't happen. That's the first one. Well, that's why I was kind of upset or angry at all those colleagues who criticize the work of the committee. After all, Mr Rupar is even Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy. You have time, you have previously received this, material, since June this has been published in the Rapporteur. Anyone who wanted to make a particular point had plenty of time, if not otherwise, to draw up proposals for conclusions during the vacation. I'm sure that would make it look different. Today, we have the opportunity to repair or supplement, for example, conclusions. So, I'm going to say, bulletproof, so critical in some way -- just in that part, in one twenty-two. Actually, 22 of us are on the board. 22 of us are Members and Members, who are to blame for such conclusions. So let's each take their own burden. As far as I am concerned, I spoke to Mr Rupar because he criticized that the first 15 items of the agenda were only about money. That's not true! And that's why I warned you. So, once again, I call, not as Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, but as your fellow Member, let's take the time, because it is not said that we must take the conclusions now. Write a conclusion, if he's going to be hosting this National Assembly, if we're going to have a discussion about him, I don't see any reason not to complement him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Yasza Zląbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	First, I would just like to mention what Comrade Podobnik said about the graves. An ancient Greek playwright with the Antigona made it clear that every man deserves and must have a decent funeral. Throughout the entire art, this matter has been repeated for thousands of years, including the Dominik Smoleta Antigon in Slovenia. I think it's terrible to lose words. But my replica went to another matter of a respected colleague of the Squire. Comrade Podobnik somehow reminded Matjaž Hanžku that he was involved in politics as the Ombudsman, as if it were an apolitical matter with which his colleague Bizjak had never come into conflict with politics. I love my fellow Bisak very much. He was a very kind Member, he was a very kind interior minister, he was a very friendly ombudsman, and he is now a very kind justice minister. Only if this applies to ministerial posts and to the post of mission, is everything okay. But I don't think an ombudsman should be a nice person. The Ombudsman must be tough, biting, stubborn and, above all, must not go into Spain with politics. The ombudsman has a completely different field of action and we can't pry him in any way because he doesn't behave well enough, or because he doesn't wear a tie and a dress. And that's why I think it's right that we have an ombudsman to deal with politics. All ombudsmen in the world who deserve that name are doing just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, I allow you because I also allowed Mr. Jashi the Evil One. However, this part again interferes with the part about which we said it goes beyond our agenda. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Now I will make full use of the present provision of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to explain my statement in the form of a replica to my respectable colleague Jaša Zlobc. It was a misunderstanding. I didn't see in anything that Mr Hanžek was involved in politics. Anyone can get involved in politics, but when he does, he has entered the policy ring and will be treated as such, and this is a responsible decision. The value, and also politically, is then defined in some way. That there would be no misunderstanding, it was a bold act, a decisive act. Or it will increase the role of the Ombudsman and this instrument, but another issue is. For when he is identified to the Hole, he must also go to Kučan or Drnovska. For if it does not, they will say why only to the Foreign Minister, why not to the President of the State. This is where you crossed Rubicon and made a responsible move. I hope you can hold this position. It's the role of the Ombudsman, not the person. I hope I've explained my views to you. Everyone can take a public stand and express his or her political or any other position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Comrade Jerovšek, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Please. Please, first colleague Jerovšek, then colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Yeah. I will not, in fact, repeat what is before me, colleague Podobnik, for I myself do not think it is bad if the Ombudsman is allowed into a political space. However, I have already reacted in this sense, because, at least perhaps the media have not borne, I see, the disproportion; I see a relatively narrow political profile of performance, and here the Ombudsman must be so wide and political and ideological that he protestes all violations. In this connection, Mr Zląbs - I don't know if I have understood correctly when you mentioned that it is in itself conditional that, with regard to the right to grave, it is a terrible loss of words. You probably didn't mean it that way or I didn't get it right. In fact, I think today, above all, that this is a matter that needs to be discussed, even though we are considering the report back. However, we have practically every two years before ourselves the Ombudsman, and we have to do this. I agree with you, Mr. Zląb, when you say that this is an ancient thing through the Antigono. I also remember your father mentioning for the first time in a speech years ago that he said, "The pain of the mother of the partisan and the German mobilizer for the lost son is the same and they both have the right to the grave, he has the patriot and he has the partisan." Although this was said years ago and you said it again, these words - almost practical - because he also mentioned the Antigono, but nothing moved. But here is our responsibility and the responsibility of the ruling party is particularly great. Eminent people, thinkers, academics have determined that something has to be done here. And let's take a joint action so we can do something. Don't be afraid of the consequences. The consequences will be positive for the Slovenian people if we do something here. It's a burden, a pain, and we see that we're always new to it. I've never done this before, but now I'm like the Bistrician in this with some responsibility suppressed, and I'm glad they don't actually replicate or perform one more with that horrible response to bone-digging and bone-gathering. It's a human duty from Antigona - the burial of the dead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, a replica of the execution of whom.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Mr. Lavrintz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	Well, by the way, I still owe Mr. Hanzk an apology for calling him Chanzko in my speech. I'm sorry. But, of course, this may be due to confusion if someone in the bench constantly waves, but forwards, one can be wrong. And that's what actually happened, isn't it, Mr. Lavrinc? We know when. Once again, I would like to remind you to warn Mr Lavrinc not to distort the basics or thoughts that have been spoken in the performance. I have not touched the committee or the work of the committee with a single word and fewer conclusions. However, if Mr Lavrinc feels offended, then let him read the story about the cat and tail, but still; I ask nicely for correctness again and again and, if it is not otherwise, at least to listen to the interlocutor. I've got so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Five more have been reported. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm really going to be very short. I don't like the criticism or the discussion that's just so lame. That's why I had to prepare what's on tape 308, 7th Regular Session 19.11.1997. It speaks of how many Members were present when the conclusions of the Ombudsman's report at that time were considered. I quote: "Does any of them wish to discuss? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're picking up the conundrum. 48 Members were present." And I am pleased, it is written in 2001 that Mr Rupar is among us, because that year almost none of Slovenia's social democracy existed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. To discuss this, I invite Mrs. Potter. Here you go. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I advertised in support of that part of the Ombudsman's performance, which spoke of the intention that a special Ombudsman's Institute on Children's Rights would be established within the framework of the Institute of the current Ombudsman's Office. The story of the Ombudsman is a story with a beard and began in 1993 in the National Assembly when a resolution on the basics of family policy was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia and discussed the legal definition of the special guardian of children's rights due to the priority of the protection of children and their rights in family policy. This provision has not been implemented. Also in the previous reference to the Equal Opportunities Policy Commission, the issue of violations of children's rights has been dealt with several times and it is possible to read among the conclusions that the Commission is calling for amendments to existing legislation. In 1997, the Ombudsman's 1997 report is linked to the Commission's proposal for equal opportunities to examine the possibility of setting up a special guardian for children's rights from the perspective of children's benefits. At the time of this request, it was particularly pointed out at the Ombudsman's finding that the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is binding on Slovenia, did not take sufficient account of the direct practice of the authorities which decide on the rights of the child and that it would be reasonable to introduce appropriate forms of child representation and advocacy in order to protect children's rights. This Decision also draws attention to the dual role played by social work centres performing professional social protection work and, at the same time, on the basis of public powers, administrative work. It is clear from the Ombudsman's 1999 report that the situation in fact has not changed in any way that some legal movements are still observed - for example, the law on fair procedure takes into account the provision that a child may be involved in a court-martial procedure -but that the role of social work centres remains double, if not triple, so that the need for a guardian, after a special institution that would allow for the realization of the belief that it is necessary for each member of this country to ensure that it is able to benefit from the achievements and benefits of our modern civilisation, but that it is also necessary to find an institution that adequately represents children as a social group. Some institute that would gain the views and views of children, which would be a kind of messenger of theirs and which in its own way - now it seems essential to me here - in particular by its way of action, allow for an open way of working and making it accessible to children as well. The Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, has decided on one of the possible arrangements for things, which is also discussed in the Ombudsman's 1999 report, which discusses the various legal options for regulating this problem. It is also true that the Equal Opportunities Commission has instructed the research centre to draw up a comparison of the regulation of this area in other European countries. And it can be seen from the conclusions that they have proved to be more effective those institutions that are either at the level of the parliamentary guardian or the government, and less at the level of the non-governmental. Therefore, it seems to me that it is possible to refer in this case also to Article 159 of the Constitution, which allows the Institute of the Special Ombudsman for Children's Rights. And let me conclude by saying that I am particularly in favour of the 14th decision of the Committee on Internal Policy, which expresses all the things I have mentioned in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I am speaking today because last Wednesday I attended the meeting of the Parliamentary Group of the Globe of Slovenia, which addressed the current dilemma at all, whether we need a strategy for environmental training, training and education for the environment in Slovenia, and listened to the evidence of the work of the government and government authorities and the National Assembly. Most participants found that we have done quite a lot in Slovenia in the field of environmental legislation and regulations. We have a law on environmental protection, the National Assembly adopted a programme of environmental protection in 1999, more precisely, in September, it is said, exactly two years ago. Like any similar document, the program has encountered approval, concerns and criticism, as well as today's Ombudsman's report. This, of course, is also the fate and purpose of such documents to encourage, if nothing else, at least reflection on the problem itself. They just can't please everyone. All of us Members and other citizens must strive to respect their spirit, try to enforce it in a different environment, and at the same time constructively strive to improve the situation in this area from day to day. That is why I have been so much more careful when reading the Ombudsman's report, since it covers all areas of life, stay and action, as well as environmental issues that affect all areas of human life and coexistence. From the report, if we focus only on a chapter of the environment, we can read about noise, smell, irregularities in the construction of buildings, procedures for obtaining local and construction permits, notification of works, acceptance of urban documentation, spatial and regulatory conditions for determining areas and the adoption of municipal spatial acts, anti-group protection, sewage, drinking water method and so on, quite specifically. Most of the findings of the Ombudsman’s report can be summed up in one of the general findings of the report, [[Quoting from the report]] : "The ministries and especially the government do not pay enough attention to these problems. Their inadequate relationship also shows that the government does not consider inspection reports, which the Ombudsman found back in 1999 and the same in the 2000 report." That's what they say, the same thing. I will add that unfortunately the report on the state of the environment in Slovenia has not been produced since 1996. This, however, was produced in the form of a publication that was unfortunately published two years later, or three years later, in 1999. Can the Government take any appropriate action if it does not have such a comprehensive report on the basis of which it could take professional action? I ask, when can we expect a new report on the state of the environment in Slovenia? And so I ask the guardian to do something in this area, to get a report in Slovenia as soon as possible and to actually figure out the differences between 1996 and today. At least once a week, concerned individuals and citizens do not call and ask me how they can help solve certain environmental problems. I am aware that environmental problems do not solve with one report that this is a persistent daily work of everyone on awareness, education, information, learning, changing mental patterns and values. I'm aware that few of us can do anything to stop oil tankers with millions of oil barrels from floating on unmarked seas, and we can all do a lot of things together to need fewer tankers and fewer oil. None of us can reduce the hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica, but we can all make this hole smaller. Therefore, I ask the Ombudsman to do more in this area, especially in the field of environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not repeat and list the individuality of the chapters in the Ombudsman's report, but I would point to a few points that would be worth touching or at least thinking about when we are talking about the report. First the report, at least what is also in some version, is nicely tied, beautiful printing, pleasant and also apparently getting thicker. Of course, I wonder: this means that more and more violations of rights have become more acute or the guardian's eye has become more acute. I hope that other statement is true if I'm interrupting, and then we're going in the wrong direction. Infringement of rights, in particular where there is a conscious, free, willing, intentional, non-implementation of the law, in particular by the public authorities or at the top of the policy; this is particularly worrying. Just an example, it can be a return on property or something that has been violently taken away. The one who is calling, or the state authority that is delaying this on purpose, is even more problematic. I do not want to reduce the problem of other infringements, which are due to negligence, misconduct, or lack of people, or lack of will to make more money available to save, say, judicial backlogs, but such cases, where intention is, are particularly criminal and are not right. That is why the future US Ambassador has also pointed out this as a criterion for joining the European Union. Not just by accident, not by content, but by intent to hide behind. The next thing to be warned is the distinction or injustices that are consequences that somehow flow through legality. We have laws that mean legality. And these laws in some way establish criminal states because they are not consistent with the law. A specific case that I had in my office: the elderly lady asked me if she could apply for compensation because she was a child and then as a refugee. I said, "Sure, now is the time to invest until the end of December." What happened? She said, "They killed all my parents, and I'm the only one left. But I knew that this could be realized, as one of my acquaintances had already done." I said, "Who is the cause, and how is this proved?" "Yes, I was killed by a family of revolutionary powers or partisans." I said, "Then you have no rights. For if the army of Germany, Italy or Hungary had caused this to you, they would have had this right." There is only one case where by law we want to correct injustices, we cause additional injustices. And here we have to be particularly acute in spirit and think that we are not doing this. I'm sorry to go back in time, but it's also full of other cases from the present. Military pensions, too. Those who fought on the side of the Slovenian army have a smaller pension than those who did not join the Slovenian army. This is a warning, not only to the Ombudsman, but also to us, parliamentarians, the National Assembly and the Government and others. The third point I wanted to discover in this regard is: Of course, the guardian can go into the political ring. I don't blame him. Of course, the consequences - for his actions he will have to answer for himself. [[Sign for the end of the replica.]] However, when it enters the political ring - because I will conclude this thought - it is by no means permissible for it to descend into the ring, and it violates certain conventions. Specifically, I will not surround the current Ombudsman with his active role in the referendum when this referendum was contrary to the Convention on the Granting of Children's Rights, in particular to the Father. That's when it's gonna be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I apologize, but now this is no longer a final thought, but a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	I'm done with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, I apologize, but now this is no longer a final thought, but a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	I'm done with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr Hanžek, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman's report is good because it sums up the actual state of human rights protection in Slovenia. However, allow me to draw attention to another issue in the report, which I have already pointed out in the work of the parental committee. I believe, however, that it requires the attention of such a assembly, the Ombudsman and, in particular, representatives of the government. I am thinking of the role of public institutions, in particular institutions for the protection of natural and cultural heritage, which, in exercising their powers and public powers in administrative procedures, both in their work area and in the field of space management and interventions, often violate their public powers and powers. Practice has shown that their work is not in accordance with the law. This is because, in deciding on the administrative rights of individuals and legal persons, they often go beyond public authority, do not move within the limits of their powers and abuse their professions many times to disability. Their work and their conduct often result in the extension and delay of administrative procedures and also in wrong, even illegal decisions. For such a claim, a number of evidence can be submitted to the Government. More should therefore be done in this area in the future, and the measures proposed are also covered in the fifth decision of the report of the parent committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. As the panellists are no longer present, I conclude the general debate. Mother's work body Do you want, Mr. Keeper, one last word? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Let this not be the last word on this issue, but still. I would like to thank you, in particular, for all the encouragement, praise, the same or perhaps even more for the critics. Criticisms, for I am happy to accept, are even more likely than praise, for they give me new thought. All these things, proposals and everything else we've written down, we'll think about it, now it's impossible to answer everything right now. I just want to answer, if you'll excuse me, two minutes for a few specific questions. I would like to thank Mr Bernick for some suggestions, suggestions and also questions on accessibility. It was also a question and price of the report. This paper is one of the cheapest papers. But it's thicker this year just because it's a little cheaper than last year's paper and fatter pages, the number of pages is the same, and then it's that. They're available for free to all people, these reports. The report is online - I realize it's not popular enough. And this is the work that we will begin to do now: to inform people about human rights what they can do. We are starting next week in the week of children's rights because we are already preparing some little paper for children to know where to turn, etc. We've already joined the Youth Friends Federation, etc., to cooperate. I am aware of this, that this is one of the very important things, the knowledge of violations, and in particular the knowledge that man - sometimes there are violations because people do not even know that they are violating others, this ignorance, but not in this sense, as the Slovenian means. That's why we also have practitioners coming from college: from high school for social work, from law school. I keep working with most NGOs, I visit and visit different marginalised groups - let it not be negative, let me know: on the one hand, to help them, on the other hand, and to learn a lot of information from them. Most of this information that I got through these informal channels - only after you get the information can you introduce formal channels of investigation. This is what we have started or continued or as it is. I won't talk about it again. The graves. Let this not be an excuse - I accept your criticism, and only as information. When they found out there, I wanted to go, and I was going to make a statement there. It came - I have two, three groups; I simply had to cancel immediately in the first days of the visit to Slovenska Bistrica and then it moved away. Now I said, "I'd rather wait for more information to come out." So I know. Of course, I could say to your answer that we wrote about this in the 1999 report, but I don't want to. I am aware that one of the human rights is also dignity after death. I'd end up here. I am aware that some of my developments are political. The Institute of Human Rights is a political thing, I've been aware of it all along. I try not to tie myself to a party, try not to tie myself to a particular ideology, I believe I will never succeed. I would very much agree that with every wrong public word, I would protest, believe me, then I would write all day long only protests, no one would see anything. So I just took this discretionary right to decide for myself when I'm going to - I've also made up my mind many times already, I haven't had the time, I haven't been able to write it properly enough, I'd rather not have done it. I am also aware that sometimes it may be uneven, but here, of course, I will gladly listen to all these criticisms and I will think about it and correct as much as I will not be even in everything. If the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister makes such a statement, in my opinion, an impatient word or anyone else, I will say the same. Dimitri Rupl and I have been friends for over 30 years, and that was no argument not to tell him what I meant. And maybe I even wanted to demonstrate that there will be no discount on my friends, acquaintances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The mother's working body proposes to the assembly to adopt the following conclusions. If you don't mind, I'd like to draw on an additional report. Here are the proposed conclusions, 18, an additional report of 25.9.2001. Mr Janez Podobnik, on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, also proposes a proposal for an additional decision, in addition to the eighteenths, with the following text: "The National Assembly calls upon the competent authorities to do whatever is necessary to mark the graves decently after the massacres, for their symbolic burial, for the establishment of lists of these persons, for the five-year treatment of the remains found and for the access of relatives to all data on their fate." I am opening a debate on the conclusions contained in the supplementary report from number 1 to 18 and on the additional draft decision of the SLD + SKD Group. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Do you have any objection, Mr. Anderlich? Excuse me! Mr. Janez Sponik gave in writing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	I suggest we get it in writing because it was long and complicated, but I couldn't help but say whether I could support it or not. But I feel like I could support him if I saw him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	If you insist, Mr Anderlich, we will wait for this to reproduce and then we will make a decision on the conclusions. Mr Anderlič, we will vote on the conclusions of the working body and on the additional proposal for a decision in the package. You want us to vote separately? Okay. An additional proposal for a decision may also be put to the vote, but we will go to the vote on the proposals for a decision proposed by the home labour body. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed conclusions of the parent working body are fully adopted. We will also make a decision on an additional proposal for a decision that you want to explain? [[...]] Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues for this awkwardness that I have made an additional decision very late. However, I fully followed the contents of the Ombudsman's report on page 49 of 1999.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Most already have on the table a written copy of the proposed additional decision submitted by the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party and explained by Mr Janez Podobnik. The debate on this additional decision is open. Who wants to discuss the proposal for an additional decision? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote on the proposal for an additional decision, which has been presented and is now in writing before you. I'm calling off the vote. You want to explain your voice, Dr. Bernick?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The text is fine, but it is more voracious, I would say, encouraging the government, rather than the government committing itself to do whatever it takes to make it happen, and reporting in half a year what it intends to do. Otherwise, next year we will have the same problem, because encouraging resolutions are never particularly successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Yasha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Unfortunately, I must say that I cannot vote in favour of the text, which, with all the goodwill of my colleague Sponika, has come about quickly and, in my opinion, has a flaw in the fact that they are exposed only after the war-killed persons. It's also about people who were killed during the war. It's not just those people who were killed as partisan victims, it's also those who were killed after the war, but they had no connection with the NOB or the NOB. And secondly, it's also language, let's say the creation of lists of these people. This is totally insurmountable because the establishment is in itself a harsh word, meaning that you put one matter back in its original state. It seems to me that such a serious matter requires a text that will also be semantic and stylish at one decent level, but that we get it here in writing and in substance incomplete, under pressure that will not do so, is a person who advocates postwar killings. I don't think this is the moment, if we can wait so many years, we can wait another part or two days to make one serious proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	In addition, I think that certain committees could tell their own story as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	Respectable. Now I can only explain my vote through the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I will support the proposal for this additional decision. None of his purposes were to pressure anyone into anything, but according to some other conclusions proposed by the working body, which touched the individual areas of the Ombudsman's report, this decision was also written. Look, buddy, I'm not gonna argue because I can't. On the basis of the 1999 report of the Ombudsman on page 49, paragraph 4, it is after the war-torn victims and their relatives. So it touches on a specific area in the Ombudsman's report, and it is also Samantha's sixth paragraph. I therefore propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we support the additional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-28-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving to a vote on the proposal for an additional decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Please allow further notice. I apologize very much to thank the Ombudsman for his cooperation and his co-workers. Thank you very much. Thank you to the government, too. In addition, the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be immediately in room 212, so I kindly request the members of the Committee to attend. An extraordinary meeting is scheduled to take place at 2:15 p.m., but if the meeting of the committee is not closed then the members of the group will be informed of the exact start of the extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
