ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Majda Potrata, Jaša Zlobec Lukič, Victory Jelinčič, Branko Kelemina, Roman Jakič from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Jelko Kacin, only Bevk from 15.30 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. I find there are 50 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Representatives of the government are invited to attend today's meeting and I welcome them very much. In order to continue the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, we were left with 2nd item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a State aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms in agriculture for 2001 and 3rd item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. That way we can move on to break 2. It's a day's work. The amendments were tabled. We have remained at the beginning of the general debate on the bill as a whole. No one has been reported for the debate, so I am moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to remind you that we have two pieces. One on a few sides, the other on one side. These are the amendments. This is a material that has the title of the Amendment to the proposal for a State aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms in agriculture for 2001, a rapid procedure and a third treatment. We're going straight to the amendments. We begin with Article 3. We have three amendments under Article 3. I am putting to the debate all three amendments to Article 3. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I've already explained Friday's amendments, but maybe just for a little while, for those of you who weren't here on Friday. Thus, with regard to the first amendment to Article 3, in the Coalition of Slovenia, which once again tabled this amendment, we are convinced that we cannot deliberately owe the budget reserves for 2002. If we are adopting an intervention law that provides funds for the effect of winding up droughts, colds and storms with the point to be paid to the victims in 2002, then these funds must also be foreseen in the budget for this purpose, not to do so further, at the expense of the budget reserve, because it is no longer a reserve. I personally understand the budgetary reserve only for purposes which arise during the year and which are not predictable in advance. I don't know, maybe I am, I'm wrong, but I am deeply convinced that the purpose of the budget reserve is in this respect, not that we are burdening the budget reserve this year. And it seems to me that such a budget, especially now that we are talking about a two-year budget, cannot survive under such laws. And amendment number two. We feel determined and far too little to devote this year to eliminating the consequences of all these three disasters by just 8 percent. So we propose that the affected be guaranteed at least 50 per cent this year. This is justified by the fact that it is already another catastrophic drought in a series of two years, and if we do not help farmers immediately and significantly, then the damage caused by such laws as this, surely we will not be able to eliminate. I say now that if there are 8% left in the marriage, our parliamentary group will not support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Anyone else want a word? No one else. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 3 and move on to a vote on individual amendments. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 17 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 22 voted against by 27 Members and Members. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 27.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the third amendment to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 22, 22 voted against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 22.]] That's what you're saying. The amendment is not accepted. We're moving on to Article 6. We have four amendments to Article 6. Someone would like to discuss the amendments tabled to Article 6. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Thanks again for saying that. Given that the voting relationship is being corrected from vote to vote, I think it makes sense to continue to discuss it. If this sample is followed, an amendment may also be accepted. So much for "intermezzo." So, I'd like to explain the amendment under number two. We propose in this amendment a more realistic and simpler option than was adopted at the second stage of the consideration of this law. In line with the guidelines of the European Union, the minimum damage by which the beneficiary is entitled to State aid may be, not 30%, but 20%, in the case of demographically underdeveloped areas. Since the areas affected by this year's drought and cold are largely demographically threatened, this means that they are underdeveloped, it would make sense to support not 30% but 20%. Also, if we want to enforce a principle of selectivity through this government law, it seems more appropriate for this 1 ha to be reduced to 30 acres, not as proposed now and as the amendment of the parent labour body has been adopted to convert this 1 ha into different hectares of agricultural culture. For this will require additional administration and additional evidence by the beneficiaries. So this formulation would be much simpler for beneficiaries. And the amendment under order number four. This formula, which is written here, is summarised after what the Commission for Agriculture in the State Council has also proposed. After this formula, the beneficiaries would get something more than what the government is proposing, but this formula is much simpler and for, I would say, farmers are much more understanding than the formula in the basic text of the law. Therefore, please also support the amendment under number 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Dear Mr. Vice President! There's been some kind of embarrassment to me. I voted wrong when I voted on the third amendment to Article 3. I think I have the right, that's what you're going to tell me, to request a re-voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u7	This is the third amendment to the previous article. We are in the debate on the next article. I would like to point out to Members and Members that it is difficult to accept subsequent arguments regarding the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u8	That's what he's holding. Mr Vice President, I believe that you have led so closely that you have not seen the hand that I held up during the vote. So please, I still don't think anything will change if you put it to the vote again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u9	I would ask Mr Jakič and all others who have certain opinions on this, not to discuss it because there is no open debate on this subject, if possible. I apologize if I have not seen this, but we will certainly conclude the debate on the article we are now talking about. Since we're in the middle of this debate, we're not going to stop this point right now. Please, who wants another word at this point? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled in Article 6. Given that we had an objection or warning from Mr Sušnik in the third amendment to Article 3, and that I probably missed his warning at the time of the vote, I would like to resolve this complication in such a way as to ask you whether we should repeat the vote on the third amendment to Article 3. So, are we voting on whether we can accommodate Mr. Sušnik's intervention? This was my procedural proposal and I am putting it to the vote, and there is no debate on this. So, please, my procedural proposal was whether you would like us to agree, given my possible error, of course, on Mr Sušnik's proposal and repeat the vote on the third amendment to Article 3. We are voting on this procedural proposal. Please, let's vote! Of the 56 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. We will therefore re-vote the third amendment to Article 3. Ladies and gentlemen, please, if we vote on the third amendment to Article 3. Of the 64 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 6. As we said, the four amendments are here, and we begin by voting on the first amendment to Article 6. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 6. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 votes in favour, 22 were against, 37 were in favour and 37 were in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment to Article 6. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 21 voted against by 38 Members and Members. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And here's the fourth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 21, 41 were against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're at Article 8. There's only one amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 8 and move on to the vote. Let's vote, please. Amendment to Article 8. Of the 62 votes in favour, 21, 39 were against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The amendment to Article 11 is in turn. Here are the candidates of the DeSUS, LDS, Consolidated Lists and SLS+SKD Group. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! With this amendment, we have completely cleared up and clearly written down how to account and who pays the contributions for all the damages, farmers and their members of the economies. Therefore, I ask you to vote in the interest of the injured in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Just so fast, we got the material on the table. In the second reading, we have amended the text of Article 11 to read, and now it says that paragraph 1 is deleted. So this article, which we have adopted in second reading, does not have the first paragraph. So, does your amendment delete the whole article or how do we understand that? I'll do it again. In the second reading, we have amended the entire text of Article 11. And you say in your amendment, the first paragraph is deleted, and then the second paragraph changes by saying it. This Article 11 has been amended in its entirety and does not contain paragraphs 1 and 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u13	Mr. Sok, thank you for your warning. I'd like to ask your attention for a few moments, and I'd like to ask the proposer for an answer if he has it in his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u14	In order to delete the first paragraph, it is therefore necessary to amend this amendment in order to enable the injured to receive the first-ever pensionable period and to have health insurance and that this cost will be transferred to the State budget. I think the matter is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u15	So the complication doesn't seem to be that difficult. In the second reading, on page 7, you may have this material with you, the text has been deleted so that in fact there is only one paragraph. This sentence is written here, as proposed by the proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Just an explanation of the situation in which the assembly is located. In the second reading, an amendment was tabled at Article 11, after which the whole text is amended. However, an amendment has been tabled to this amendment in order to introduce a new second paragraph. That is to say that Article 11 in the third reading has two paragraphs. In such a way that the third reading amendment is carried out correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u17	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Thank you. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 11. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. Seven was against it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have another amendment to Article 15. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 15. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 23 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the law. [[It's not.]] Therefore, we can move on to a full decision on the law. So we are voting on the whole law. Let's vote, please. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Sok wanted to explain his voice. And then Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u18	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. I would like to explain the position of the New Slovenia Group on this law. As we have already said in the debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u19	Mr. Sok, I'm sorry. You can only explain your voice to yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Then I'll explain my vote to this marriage. The law is unclear as proposed by the government. The obligations under this law are not clear and will be known only after the Minister of Environment and Space has produced some kind of methodology, some geographically rounded area, based on meteorological and pedicological data. Since this is not clear at this time and is not clear, of course, even at this time it is not possible to know what this law actually entails as an obligation to the state budget. The government also refers to European guidelines in this law. Once again, I stress that the principle of Slovenian agriculture under the national programme is eco-social agriculture, and that this law should therefore also bear a mandatory component of socialism, which is not the law, since this law excludes, according to our assessment, about one third of the beneficiaries, according to the criteria of selectivity. We are not against the fact that clean farmers get more help, but we are against the fact that, in the way this law brings, many people who pay through the cadastral income in the state budget are excluded from many of those who have modest savings, invest in agriculture and who have been affected by catastrophic drought and cold. We also do not think that the government is making a contribution in this year to the affected areas of all 8% of the resources envisaged, but that everything else is carried forward in 2002 as a payment from the budget reserve. We are confident that farmers who have suffered damage would need funds immediately if they wanted to preserve their livestock stock. The agricultural situation is not pink. I have to say, because I come from the agricultural area, that the number of those who show an interest in farming is decreasing from year to year; this is also shown by the data of all those who have submitted applications for direct payments to the agricultural market agency; these are lower year to year. I would like to point out that young people leave the countryside, that old farmers remain in the countryside, and that many agricultural land remains unprocessed and that, according to the data of the forest establishment, up to 1% of agricultural areas grow annually in some areas. Such a situation certainly cannot contribute to the preservation of rural areas; in fact, it is one of the key functions of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, one of the key functions in the effort to preserve cultural identity, the population of the province and, of course, the preservation of the Slovenian language. We are not surprised that such a vague law is passed by the ruling coalition of liberal democracy and the unified list. In fact, these two parties never showed true obedience to the issue of agriculture. It is surprising, however, that the Slovenian People's Party, the SLS+SKD, has also joined in this way, and in fact we regret that it has not been more actively involved in the debate when we adopt this government proposal, which, once again, is bad, blurry and we do not know what it actually brings, either as an obligation or as the right of all those who are entitled to state aid. For this reason, our parliamentary group will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. In my opinion, this law is somehow incomplete. The problems of drought and the consequences of other natural disasters do not solve fully enough, so, together with New Slovenia, we have prepared several amendments and only if we somehow adopted these amendments would the law be enforceable, effective and achieve its purpose. The law divides the owners of agricultural land into large and small farmers; the law systematically incorporates inequality and inequality among owners of agricultural land. Very sharp exclusion criteria have been put in place, since the law excludes all those whose estimated damage or damage to payment will not exceed 30 thousand tolars. And that's about the height of a farmer's pension, or the height of half the worker's salary. We all agree that drought is worse than it was last year, that injury is worse than it was last year, but state aid will be significantly lower. For at least 20,000 beneficiaries will be less remunerated and it is estimated that the result for the state budget will be about 5 billion less than it would have been if a similar law was passed last year. The country will also avoid all obligations this year by adopting this law, as only the biggest owners, the largest farmers, will receive a few percent of the aid, and only those who have the most affected cultures. That's what they say, over 50%. The law is therefore unadapted to the state and situation of the countryside, and it is more than obvious that the drought will strike again this year, even for another time. And this second blow of the drought will be severe and the shock of the affected will be very great. I therefore believe that the law is not comprehensive, that it does not solve drought problems comprehensively and sufficiently, and also in our Group of Members, we feel that we do not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u23	Mr Jerovšek wants to explain his voice. Then there's Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. This law, which is intended to ensure that the consequences of catastrophic drought are in some way remedied, so that it does not have catastrophic consequences mainly for Slovenian livestock and other types of agriculture, is in fact impractical, unclear, haze as has already been stated. I think that the Ministry of Environment and Space has produced much better technology in this law to avoid the enforcement of this law, so that it will not be necessary to say directly to the screen that we will not enforce this law. However, because I fear that the state agitprop will declare all those who vote against it as opponents of the implementation of this law and of the recovery of damage, I am also in an extraordinary dilemma about how to vote. For the sake of avoiding this, even though I don't believe the law will be passed, I will support the law, because something small is better. But I am strongly opposed to what the Ministry has done in this case and what the government has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposal of the law by ourselves and also by the parliamentary group. Although perhaps some solutions are not very good. Above all, I would point out that the new component in the law is probably a so-called selectivity, which also contains a social component. The fact is that, whether we want to or not, we must recognise that state aid is particularly beneficial and must be directed towards those people who are exclusively engaged in agricultural production. And that's what this law brings. That's the news. We must also acknowledge that the law in 2000 did not recognise the damage to those who suffered up to 30% of the estimated damage, so that in fact the law only follows some balanced, fair criteria. And that's why we're going to uphold the law. However, we expect that the law will also be implemented within the time limit provided for in the bill. In doing so, I would also point out that it is imperative to consider becoming this separate budget item in the draft budget for 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the votes before the full vote on the law itself. We can go to the vote. We're voting on the whole law, please! Of the 62 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games of Fortune, Quick Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're moving to first reading. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Tolar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main reason for amending and supplementing the gambling law is the complementary strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia, adopted this year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The vision of this strategy is a gaming activity as an integral part of Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer, which operates in a well-defined legal and development-oriented social environment. The gaming activity is intended to be effectively managed, transparently managed and professionally controlled. The first law governing gambling in Slovenia was adopted in the former country in 1965 and was in force until 1980 when it was replaced by the new law on gambling. In the independent Republic of Slovenia, gambling was regulated by the law, which was passed in 1995, a law that is still in force. This law has defined companies more precisely than the previous two, which can arrange classical and special gambling, and in particular control over them by the newly established Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Gambling. The ban on visiting and playing casinos for residents was also lifted. At the time of the entry into force of the law, all companies that were then authorised to arrange gambling in the Republic of Slovenia were socially owned. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted two laws in which the property transformation of these companies has been carried out, thus fulfilling the conditions for the award of concessions for the adaptation of classical and special gambling. In the Republic of Slovenia, two companies currently have a concession to permanently organize classical gambling and five companies to arrange special gambling in casinos. Despite a relatively short period since the entry into force of the gambling law, the changes and additions we are proposing to you today are necessary for two reasons. Firstly, due to some vague formulations of individual provisions. In particular, these shortcomings have proved to be in the field of tailoring special gambling in outdoor gaming machines and in the field of control, which has often been under unnecessary pressure. Secondly, due to the adopted strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia, which foresees some changes in this area, we mention in particular the elimination of the possibility of tailoring special gambling on out-of-concession gaming machines. Furthermore, the obligation to certify gaming devices and to introduce licences to work in gaming activities. The existing progressive taxation regime with concession tax is not development-oriented, as the level of taxation is also relatively increasing when better business results are achieved, and therefore one of the reasons for changing the system law is also the regulation of this area in a way that encourages the further development of Slovenian gaming and its effective adaptation to rapidly changing conditions in the casino market. It is necessary to know that, above all, one of our neighbouring border countries intends to liberalise gambling legislation slightly in the near future, which could lead to the opening of new casinos near the border with our country. Assuming the existing taxation of concessionaires, which does not sufficiently allow the modernisation of the gambling offer, this would mean a further reduction in the revenues from the casino industry and, consequently, the duties set out in this Title. All these reasons constitute a sufficient basis for amending the system law which will allow the gaming activity to be created in an integrated, harmonious and modern manner and its positive financial effects will affect the development of the entire tourist offer, both at regional and national level. The main solutions contained in the bill are in particular the following: 1. The setting up of gambling via the Internet or other telecommunications means will only be allowed to companies that obtain a concession for the permanent adaptation of classic gambling or concession for the adaptation of specific gambling in casinos. 2. In the future, gambling will only be possible with a gaming device that complies with the prescribed technical and other requirements and will be determined in accordance with the prescribed procedure. With this provision, Slovenia is also introducing appropriateness certificates following the example of the casino developed European countries, thereby increasing the player's confidence in the gambling process and reducing the possibility of manipulation in this title. 3. The amendment is also envisaged for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the concessionaire by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the regulation so far, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has appointed its member in the event of non-participating, and the Government will appoint one member of the Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the Minister responsible for Finance. The proposed regulation seems appropriate to us, as the Ministry of Finance, as the Ministry of Finance, through which most of the decisions relating to gambling are taken, is responsible for this area and therefore also requires adequate leverage to achieve these objectives. 4. The amendment is also envisaged in the field of concessionaire taxation. Only realisation from gaming machines will be taxed on the progressive scale. All other games at a uniform rate of 5%. The proposed change will reduce the existing concession burden, while the increased accumulation capacity of concessionaires will have positive effects, both on the further development of Slovenian gaming and on the level of budgetary revenues a little later. 5. Companies that can arrange special gambling will have to establish a specific supervisory information system for gaming devices that will be linked to the supervisory information system of the supervisory authority and will provide direct control to the supervisory authority. "On line" business control has already been established in the casino developed European countries, and in Slovenia we also have this kind of control, or have it, including existing special gambling operators on gaming machines that have permission to increase the stake in the game to 3,000 tolars. According to the proposal for a new regime, this control system will be mandatory for all companies that will obtain concessions to arrange special gambling. 6. The managers of casinos, troupes, game managers, persons who exercise intensive control in the casino and the main and auxiliary cashiers will have to have a special licence to work in the development of specific gambling activities to be issued by a special commission composed of three members. The two members will be appointed by the Minister responsible for Finance and the third will be appointed by the Committee responsible for Playing at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The condition for obtaining a licence will also prove that a person has not been legally sentenced to imprisonment for a crime against life and body, human health, property, economy, legal traffic, official duty or public order or peace. Seven. According to the bill, the possibility of organizing special gambling on outdoor gaming machines will be eliminated, but under certain conditions it will be possible to arrange in gaming salons where there will be a minimum of 50 to a maximum of 200 slot machines. 8. According to the bill, the limitation of the concessionaire's management shares will be lifted up to 20%, thus allowing for consolidation of ownership in the field of Slovenian gaming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Isn't there a reporter? Looks like he's not around. At this time, I would like to ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. [[He doesn't want a word.]] In such a case, we will not waste time - so I hope that the report has been sent to all Members and Members, so that we have it on the tables. However, it would be appropriate to maintain the practice that we have created. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I already have two applications here, first Mr Bozič on behalf of the SLS + SKD Group, then Mr Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Secretary of the Government, Service of the National Assembly, Madam Secretary! But there is not much of us in the hall - it seems that gambling is not all interesting - even from our parliamentary group, indeed not. But this is what a person would think when dealing with marriage that people should be present or Members of Parliament. However, colleagues and colleagues, still welcome! I have to say the following about this marriage. A little history. Playing in Slovenia began almost forty years ago. We got our first marriage in 1965, then in 1980, 1995 and 1997. That's how gambling developed. Since I come from the western part of Slovenia, I must also say that gambling actually started in Piran and then in Novi Gorica and then spread throughout Slovenia. As new things began to spread, so did the appetites of the state and anyone else. And today, when we have more than 2,000 players, it is difficult to understand that this is something new, but it is something that is normal in other countries. We were looking at the casino with the wrong looks. And when I prepared on Friday to say a few words about gambling, I wanted to, and I will also use the words of our Prime Minister today when he explained the budget: "When we adopted the legislation in the field of gambling, we were not moderate and not healthy, because we have adopted legislation that has almost destroyed gambling in the last five years." Consequences: The players have run out, because if something doesn't happen, if there's nothing new, new people don't come, there's a deficit area. And that's what the president was talking about when he was representing the budget. Therefore, it is important to watch when we adopt legislation to adopt one that is suitable for each sector and for a certain area to develop normally. Playing has not developed in the last five years. At that time we also received a strategy for the development of gaming, which is nice and right, but it is necessary to know that on the other hand, the country where the most players come from, Italy, is thinking about why our people carry money to Slovenia instead of playing home. Well, we've completely forgotten about the competition. The Constitutional Court was also not satisfied with certain articles of the law, in particular on gaming machines. Therefore, we welcome the adoption of this law today and the correction of what we have had and have done wrong in the last five years. We want gambling to have that place in Slovenia, in our country that belongs to it. Not to glorify it, not to oppress it. Therefore, the Members of our party will support this law, the amendments that have been tabled, in particular those tabled by DeSUS, the combined list, LDS and SLS+SKD, and I hope that this new year law will really enter into force, because, in addition to the bad relations that we had at the Western border on the sale of fuel, free-caring shops and now at the casinos, we must not afford every time as great as we had with the gambling and concessions law that we had no development for five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Gračner has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I will present the position on the law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. The area of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the law on gambling, which was adopted in 1995 and represents the legal framework for the adaptation of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, in December 1997, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia based on a strategy for the development of tourism in Slovenia. Some systemic solutions have proven inadequate or inadequate since its implementation, particularly in the field of the adaptation of special gambling in gaming machines outside casinos and in the progressive taxation of casinos. One of the global strategic definitions is the elimination of all existing slot machines outside the casinos, whose use is currently permitted under Articles 92 and 102 of the gambling law for the promotion of guest activities, legal persons or entrepreneurs. The strategy sets out the following reasons for the total ban on slot machines outside the casinos. Gambling machines represent special gambling, with all the consequences typical of other types of special gambling. Nowhere in Western Europe is this type of gambling allowed in the form it is currently in Slovenia. Installation of slot machines outside casinos is insufficiently controlled and unsupervised. The owners or co-owners of the organizers are also foreign natural and legal persons, contrary to the law on gambling. Compared to operators of special gambling in casinos, special gambling operators are lower taxed on gaming machines outside casinos. The existing regime does not allow for adequate tax control of gaming machines and also for the uncontrolled diversion of profits abroad. Unregulatedness of this area puts the whole activity of organizing special gambling in Slovenia, both domestically and internationally, in an uncertain light. This area represents unfair competition for casinos with concessions, and offers out-of-the-field slot machines confuses guests, as providers of such offers most often use the term "casino". The basis for amending the gambling law is taken from the 1997 strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia, which sets out guidelines for the further development of this activity and provides for the adoption of a new comprehensive and more modern system legislation that will enable the players to further develop in terms of the comprehensive tourism offer of Slovenia. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other competent institutions, has joined in comprehensive amendments to the existing law on gambling. The draft amendments and the amendment of the gambling law in accordance with the guidelines of the strategy were prepared in 1999 and submitted for coalition coordination and sent to the public at the same time - we think mainly to the gambling committee at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia - in comments or proposals. Due to the duration of the mandate of the previous government coalition, the work in preparing amendments and supplementing the law for a certain period of time has been suspended. Despite these complications, the Ministry of Finance has led the draft amendments to the gambling law to the extent that it will only be re-ordered, the area of the development of special gambling in slot machines outside the casinos, and to a change in the system of taxation of companies that arrange special gambling. By the time the Republic of Slovenia enters the European Community, new system legislation will be fully completed, which will take over the legal solutions of the first phase and will be fully in line with the strategy. In order to protect the process of playing games, most European countries that allow gambling to be organised have legally defined procedures for checking the compliance of gaming machines with domestic legal requirements. The verification procedure shall be carried out by the authorised institutions which issue a certificate of suitability before the use of the slot. There is no such body in Slovenia so far, and only two staff members of the standardisation and metrology office perform part of that function. Despite existing staffing restrictions, the time limit for ensuring compliance of the player’s gaming machines is only exceptionally longer than one month, on average not to reach 30 days. The former Ministry of Science and Technology, whose body was composed of the Office of Standardisation, had already highlighted an opinion before that time following the early termination of the tasks imposed by the existing Regulation. The task of shortening and simplifying procedures relating to the certification of gaming devices will undoubtedly be solved by the envisaged amendment of the gambling law and imposed on the Ministry of Finance or the Agency for the Control of Gambling. The clearly defined provisions will also allow for adequate staffing, which is a prerequisite for quick and professional resolution of the problem under consideration. By reducing the fees introduced by the law, the gaming offer will also receive an additional impetus for investing and developing a multi-layered gaming - entertainment offer with the support of top technology. Competitiveness can only be maintained when constantly investing in technical and programme development and promotion. In summary. In LDS, the priority of the proposed legal changes is seen in the more transparent control of all gambling processes, the mandatory introduction of the "on line" control system of gaming devices in casinos or gaming salons, and the introduction of certification of gaming devices and the introduction of licenses to perform certain tasks and tasks in the development of specific gambling activities, thereby protecting the interests of the state and players and ensuring a real tax base. The bill further introduces concessions for gaming salons, which will ensure proper regulation of this area and allow their development in relation to existing casinos. In this regard, we support the Government's amendment to the law on gambling, with amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, with the exception of Articles 8, 16 and 40, where we support the amendments of the LDS, SLS+SKD, the United List and DeSUS. These amendments will be tabled for second reading in order to ensure the consistency of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows, fellows, gathered in the hall! I will begin with the words of my esteemed colleague, Mr Bozič, so let the playing field develop, let it flourish and, above all, I will stress that it should be regulated. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we certainly support the statement. But still. From here on out, things are starting to evolve inversely. I've had contact with representatives or with the operators of this activity. I'll put it in concrete terms with three. None of these three together, i.e. one, the other and the third, have been coordinated or coordinated. The other way around! Each individual had some suggestions which were contradicted by a proposal from another or a proposal from another. 2. The opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling, I am talking about this concrete proposal, the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, and it has clearly written. Under a: According to the first mentioned reason. Therefore, this reason is that it is intended to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision, it should be noted that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the cases of the harmonisation of the law with the Constitutional Court’s decision provide for a shorter and non-fast procedure. And a second time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the reason for the urgent reaction to the change in actual circumstances is that this law should be regulated. And the secretariat says: "In view of the above, given its tasks, the secretariat is obliged to point out that the proposed amendment radically interferes with the concept of the operation of gambling, which would suggest a comprehensive, legal and additional examination, which does not allow for a rapid legislative procedure." Two additional reasons why I will not say that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group does not support the new law on gambling, but that we are in doubt, if we are not already sure that the procedure we are in the process of now is not appropriate for two of the reasons already mentioned. And the third reason: among the gambling that is taking place across Europe - I believe that this law should also be in line with European legislation in this area - are, for example, horse racing; I do not know, these in this proposal are not the words of the law. Whether they belong to this law or not, others will probably answer me. However, if they do, there are likely to be new developments, and we will, in the shortest possible time, re-adopt the bill amending the bill and so on and so forth. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we do not oppose the law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, but we want to see that, if it is already regulated, it is normal for it to be coordinated with all operators who will, of course, be amended after this proposal, if it is adopted, and that - so I will make a procedural proposal, which allows me to interpret the rules of procedure after the first reading, after the completion of the first reading - the rapid procedure after the first hearing will be terminated and continued on a regular basis. I will make this procedural proposal in accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure as soon as the general debate is concluded. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Bernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the existing gambling law require three documents: a strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia [[it has been amended since 4 December 1997 and was amended this year, 13 September, in the sixth paragraph of point 4.]] ; then it is also necessary to see the existing regulation of 1998 on the use of slot machines, which was corrected during the time of the Finance Minister, Mr Ivanušič, this is last year. This rule deals with machines, slot machines outside casinos. This year, the Constitutional Court annulled several sentences from several paragraphs of this Regulation because the Regulation required that the new gambling operators have a maximum of three slot machines, up from thirty to one hundred. Now that a person is looking at these three documents, he also wonders where another one is, and this is a tourism offer strategy in Slovenia, because gambling or gambling is supposed to be an integral part of the tourism strategy in Slovenia. A rapid procedure was proposed to be based on three arguments. Firstly, a decision by the Constitutional Court finding that a sub-legislative act on the operation of special gambling is in conflict with the Constitution on gaming machines outside the casinos. The Constitutional Court has set a three-month deadline for the abolition of non-constitutional provisions. This deadline expired on 29 September, recently. It is commendable that the leadership of the national assembly or government decided that this law should be rectified as soon as possible, but now we have missed it. Another reason would be to increase the effectiveness of gambling control, which should or should also help if games on slots are stopped outside the casinos and new establishment of gaming salons. While the applicant generally mentions the lack and difficulty of control, various infringements, non-direction of profits into tourist infrastructure, this seems to be directed only against the owners of gaming machines in catering facilities. On this basis, we would be particularly interested in why this is the case. And it's been a couple of years. Who is responsible for this situation? But we do have a gambling office and who should be responsible for it now. The explanation should indicate where control has been jammed, why and why it has not been corrected in recent years. There's no mention of that. The third reason is the decline in the competitiveness of Slovenian gaming. This is not well-founded either. When reading the proposed amendments to this law, one wonders what is the consistency between this law, the present and proposed one, with the strategy for the development of gambling and the tourism strategy in Slovenia. As I understand it, gambling - as I said - is part of our country's comprehensive tourist offer. However, the government does not talk about this in the proposed amendments, nor about where gambling belongs in this comprehensive offer, how much it contributes, what problems it causes and so on. Nor does it tell who or at what level coordinates tourism and gambling, how much it contributes to all tourism along with gambling. It is obvious that someone changed his mind and gave up the concepts of a gambling strategy almost four years ago. As I mentioned earlier, this was to some extent corrected by the amendment on 13 September, but the rest of the material or content remains unchanged. Now I'd like to go back to why the speedy procedure. I'd like someone to explain to me who and why there is a rapid procedure here, where the emergency situation is for our country. I don't see them personally. However, if the government had already wanted a swift procedure, it would have felt that there should be a precise explanation for the financial and other consequences of the adoption of this law. In addition, I think the dictates of the proposals are extremely volatile and I think that they should be thoroughly corrected. I must mention that the secretariat, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, drew attention to some inconsistencies in the text of the proposals. I hope that these warnings will be taken seriously. By the way, let me say that this opinion of the secretariat was at least a pleasant surprise to me, because it did not come together here and there, it said things directly and clearly, as an independent lawyer would have done. In this case, a lawyer. Although my experience in the National Assembly is relatively short, I must say that there has been more heated discussion and confusion at the time of this proposal than ever before in any working committee. I think that the poorly prepared text of the amendments also contributed to this. As I said before, the government should put before us a financial analysis of the current state of casinos in Slovenia and all financial implications for the state and taxpayers. This time, however, it can also be observed that our ministries and governments are unhealthyly allergic to our demands for such data. I have to say, only nice words without numbers don't convince you if, of course, someone is used to thinking businessly. There's something else about the financial effects I see. They're negative in the short run. In the first year following the entry into force of this law, some 500 million dollars will fall out of the budget compared to 2001, as this will be a reduction in concession fees. The additional burden on the budget will be 450 million SIT, as this money will be needed to offset some local communities financially. The proposer of this change is, of course, optimistic. By 2011, income is expected to increase by 10% per year, compared to the current annual growth of 0.8% after the current system. Optimism, which comes from the finance ministry, we already know: the future is increasingly sunny and promising than the present. One must ask what weather prophets the government has to justify this optimism. Finally, the proposal for amendments seems to be generous to owners; this is said to the owners of now-allowed gambling outside casinos. It gives them one year in which they either close their catering sector or apply for a license or concession for a casino. Therefore, in the first case, the State takes, if not requested, real rights without compensation, as it does not grant them any modest compensation or relief, perhaps some limited tax relief, in the event that the current owner is unable to decide or will not be financially able to apply for the licence necessary for the playroom. Finally, let me say that I have the impression that the text of this proposal, or the purpose of this amendment, is a kind of lucky play by our government. I wish her good luck, but I can say that, in the light of all that is in this law or in the proposed amendments, our Group of Members will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Diaci will speak on behalf of the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the changes and additions to the gambling law based on the updated strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia. If we remember correctly, the importance and perspective of this activity in Slovenia was indicated by the famous Slovenian economist Dr. Kovac years ago. We therefore support the controlled promotion of the development of this activity and its effective adaptation to market conditions. Undoubtedly, it is properly trained staff and supervision of this activity of utmost importance for the credibility of this sector in Slovenia, for the competitiveness of Slovenian gaming and, last but not least, for the creation of an additional tourist offer. It is also of paramount importance for institutions and activities financed by concession fees under this law. We therefore believe that it would be prudent to consider and redefine the key to the allocation of funds under Article 74 of the Gambling Act, in particular in favour of financing the activities of sports organisations and disabled and humanitarian organisations, given that, according to the financial projections in the coming periods, a positive impact on the revenue from concession fees is foreseen. In the SMS, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak will speak on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party, we are relatively concerned about statistics, both financially and economically, which we have recently recorded. We are witnessing significantly lower economic growth in Slovenia, as announced at the beginning of this year. Also significantly lower income from value added tax and excise duty, both witnessed in the first half of the year and based on statistics for September 2001, is quite alarming. In this country, it appears that we do not meet the planned revenue side, we do not meet the forecast, and we are well above the expenditure. In fact, this introduction is very surprising to us the government's proposal to cancel the work of revenue and to place this fiscal balance in a relatively darker light. In fact, directly and indirectly, by reducing concession fees, the country is canceling out good billion tolars per year to the organisers of gambling. In fact, we are very concerned and surprised by the ease of the Ministry of Finance, and in particular by Minister Anton Rope, that it is so easy to recognise the reduction of duties of some activity, some economic activity, while not considering similar measures in the field of other economic activities. This is said to be one species, I would say a sympathy for this gambling activity, even at the expense of such poverty of the state treasury. We also do not know where the Minister of Finance will cover these shortfalls, or these revenues, which, as I see them in my fellow Members' groups, will no longer be, and what this means for our public finances in the future. I am also surprised that we have here or you have quite a uniform service for this economic industry, but you do not have the hearing to lower taxes on Slovenian books or books in general in the field of beauty or in the field of science, art, for example, for firefighters, for children. When we proposed lowering certain tax rates, this was unacceptable, impossible, intransparency from public finances, and here we are going to a substantial reduction in duties of a specific activity which, in our view, is not in such a bad situation as was presented here today. We are interested in and we have data on the state and profits of these most, the largest companies in the field of gambling, where they show a 5-percent profit. We are interested in when these accounts or their balance sheets were last audited or reviewed or controlled by the competent tax authorities. We are also very concerned about the argument that, let's lower the concession fee at the expense of investments so that it can be invested and, on the other hand, we are forecasting investments in the relatively exotic countries of the former Yugoslav State, namely, Montenegro, Macedonia and elsewhere, where tax regulation is very questionable and, of course, also on this account of the balance sheet of the new companies. In short, we believe that the proposed amendment to the gambling law is a rather successful project of the gambling lobby, which managed to cut itself off on this novel at the expense of public finances good and good cake. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we are not opposed to solutions that speak of transparent control, certification of gaming machines, the introduction of the "on line" control system and other instruments that make this transparency somewhat clearer. We do not, of course, object to licensing for persons or licences for persons performing gambling because transparent, technical and professional implementation of gambling is in the interest of both the State and the users of these gambling. Of course, we cannot agree with the proposed solutions, which talk about reducing public revenues at the expense of a rather hazy picture of this branch's investments, these economic branches in the future. I am surprised that, in the debate on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years, we are able to reduce concession fees easily and thus revenue into the state budget. I am also interested in whether similar strategies in other sectors of the economy in Slovenia, in particular as regards the development of a small economy, the development of some other perspectives of the economy, or whether the government or the minister of finance here is also considering similar measures to stimulate investment start-up in this sphere of the economy, or whether this is just - it is said, gambling and the gaming sphere - merely an exception to this positive approach to investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Kebric has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Gambling is a very broad concept. Let me remind you a little bit. We are already bringing children to games of happiness, because this is the simplest and most common game Man doesn't get angry and play of luck, then a variety of raffles and everything else. However, a man who serves bread in the way of his face, with blisters, even bloodstains, has no money and is not foolish to spend it in casinos with gambling. Maybe once a week you can afford a sports bet or anything instead of a pack of cigarettes to be visited at least once or at least once by luck. Unlike luck, of course, it's an accident. In our parliamentary group, we will support this proposal for a law on gambling, for a simple reason, because the world is developing in its economy, economy and other activities, and this also leads us mainly to offer through casinos, offers tourism activities, tourist benefits, as also those players who come to the casino only for an hour, two, at least some spend, drink, and so on. We believe that the basic text has received some additions from the amendments and we anticipate a certain improvement in the basic text. That is why I conclude and say once again that we will support this bill in our parliamentary group, which will regulate and, on the other hand, make it impossible for different - to immediately say under instructions - "privatists" who, with various machinations, manipulations serve fine money at the expense of naivety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. We have two written statements, Mr Kelemina and Mr Petan. Mr. Kelemina first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! With this bill, the government wants to quickly, without a large pump, put under the roof a bad proposal, which, in my opinion, is very flawed and unexamined. If I only remember - briefly, a little - hearing on the working body, it is justifiable to say at this point that, as long as the government thinks to continue to send to the National Assembly such bad bills that then all those changes in the rules of procedure and all those vehement and high words that you are talking about in relation to the Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure will never help us. They never helped, for such a procedure as we did the last time or had a presence on this working body is, in fact, under all the normal criticism of this national assembly. The second point I would make here is that they want to get a bad marriage under the roof without any pump, and that the rapporteur of the working body does not present a proposal at all, does not even present what the working body has been discussing or how decisions have been made. I am most surprised, however, that the secretariat is simply silent in today's National Assembly in its consideration of this proposal. Although he gave, in my opinion, a very good comment or very good consideration of the matter, the proposal of this law, and pointed out a number of shortcomings. But! Look at the thieves, no one tripped or tried to follow them in the process! No one: no government, no LDS. Nobody! Now they just praise how great this is in all the elements and how the country will in this way, in some distant future, acquire some insurmountable financial means or some insurmountable financial effects. This is unacceptable, if only, of course, some things have already been said, I just remember. A reduced procedure in such a bill is questionable. There's no legal basis for that. It's basically about non-conformity, and that saying from the Constitutional Court is totally unacceptable by the government, and then it repeats the working body, and they repeat each other like parrots. Unacceptable! The non-compliance of a sub-law has nothing to do with changes to the law and so on. And there are other indications that this law needs to be amended, in fact, they do not. Of course, it will also cause, as has already been pointed out, a legal void during this period. And, of course, I ask the secretariat, I also want to have his opinion on what the consequences of this legal void will be. I also ask the Government whether the consequences of this legal void are now in effect no longer applicable - that is, those decisions of the Constitutional Court which have been repealed - are no longer in force under the rules and the law has not been amended as such or by law, and the law as such will not be amended as soon as possible, even soon, it may enter into force as long as there are other complications. So, explain to me the technical implications of such a legal void. So, is that even acceptable? It is certainly also important that the Secretariat states that there is a significant change in this area, that the management conditions of this activity are substantially changed and that the question of the appropriate proportionality of the proposed arrangement and the emancipated state and also the reality of the transitional period in which the applicant can operate under specific conditions should be included. Look, you set a one-month, one-year deadline under which the others who have now owned three slot machines can operate with these machines. You have set a one-year transitional period. Yeah, somewhere - now, someone might have gotten three machines, recently got some consent, and well, six months ago - where would they put those appliances then? Where do you want them? Get him to dump them in the trash. Are they paid or not paid, do you have these analyses? You don't have these tests! What were the revenues, the amount of income from this area? You didn't give that information. This law is extremely flawed, as far as certain particulars are concerned, you are also mentioning a strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia - there at the outset; you have not presented it to us Members to actually see what it says in this strategy. We have to look for it ourselves. Alone! You shall not specify in this document the number of the constitutional decision. Don't tell her I'm looking for this constitutional decision myself, I don't know where! How do you imagine that you put such flawed documents into the National Assembly? That's unacceptable. And then you want the Rules of Procedure to be effective and national assembly and so on! This is unacceptable, and I don't know when you're going to fix these things. So I ask you, where do you think these people are going to give these machines after one year? Explain carefully whether you will buy them off, under what conditions you will buy them, and so on. The next thing the secretariat has also pointed out, and I think it is very reasonable and weighty, where in fact certain powers are given to the Minister to lay down certain rules with certain sub-legislative acts. The secretariat nicely warns - I hope you have read the sieve, and this thoroughly, from the letter to the letter - nicely warns that such things as are proposed in the bill and are supposed to be regulated by sub-laws are not in accordance with the constitution and can happen again that someone will challenge this bill. And it's not going to work again because you haven't studied things exactly enough. I would also ask the opinion of the secretariat and the opinion of the Government, what this means and why you did not take these provisions into account when adopting the law or the warnings that the secretariat has put in place; why you did not take them into account. Please explain from the secretariat at this point and from the government: will this law, when adopted, be constitutionally disputed or not disputed? If again someone can challenge this, then nothing is actually done and a new change will be needed. The next thing that was also warned by the secretariat, because I will not repeat myself, but in fact, why do you now want to ensure some special control? Of course, you will now - the government, the government will be good-hearted, given the comments of gambling in Slovenia, in order to be able to make some new investments and so on, to write down a certain part of the taxes in order to create more accumulation, the rest of the income, and to be able to make some investments. And, of course, that the road government would then apologize and have even more control over all these procedures, even on these investments, on investment, would now even require that its representative, who will even have the power to veto certain decisions of the concessionaire. However, we on the Committee have accidentally adopted in Article 8 that this Article should be deleted in order to delete Article 8. The Minister himself said there that this was one of the key articles, and if this article is not adopted, he would in fact not let the bill go into further consideration. So, what does that mean today? That you have done well there and that, of course, you will not do so as the working body has accepted, but that you will let this 8th Article be valid and that the government will have this superior supervision of the insurance companies, where the secretariat specifically points out that the current controls already provide hundreds of percent of the control over the current business of the casinos, in accordance with existing legislation. This lack of government control, which you describe as grounds for the adoption of the law, is unacceptable and you simply confirm that you have not actually been able to properly resolve it in the current framework of the law. Of course, the question here is how many organised reviews have been made and how many have been made and what these findings have been. These would be very important data, these analyses certainly, probably not. One of the following elements, which is very important and simple, despite the Secretariat's warning, even though my warning at the meeting is ignored by the government, is how the LDS ignores it. This is a proposal for the introduction of a licence. We have found that there can be a kind of authorization or a certificate that allows those groups or what they're called - I just don't get to know these things - that they have some certificates of competence and so on; but not under the license. The secretarial department told us exactly what the license meant. And in such a case, when you have now decided on this license, there will be some inflation of this concept: no commission is prescribed, no prescribed amount of knowledge, no verification. Nothing is finalized in this proposal. What's this license gonna be? It'll only be on the basis of some kind of agreement issued - it's unacceptable! I would ask the secretariat to say once again whether it agrees that the concept of a licence in this law is thus regulated or not. And the government, why it doesn't take that into account. And the LDS doesn't even say why they don't take that into account. If he thinks it's acceptable and everyone's gonna have a license and they're gonna be there - I don't know how many of those representatives are, 100 or 200 or 300 or 500, I don't know the number, they're all going to have licenses now. And this will be more licenses than doctors now have, and some other professions! Two, three professions or how many of these licenses are in the country. And these are the last ones that will have these licenses. I'm asking you here for an explanation. Then it's the next thing. Of course, there is a question about just these gaming salons and so on, now that they have to have at least 50 slot machines, not more than 200. Okay. All right, all right! But, according to our assessment and my personal assessment, I firmly believe that a certain part of the deal will definitely move into these private salons and that in these private salons there will be some mass of available resources, which will then, of course, be used to own casinos in the future. This is probably one of the strategies of this bill. But the second thing is about reducing revenue from state and municipal budgets - I hope you've got it and you've all looked at it. Here they sent us documents, where they described nicely, a little better, of course, than the government in its proposal for a law, what are the actual income losses in full and what are the income losses for local communities. I do not know if Members are aware that, under this law, the local communities will now be deprived of certain resources and that additional resources will have to be provided for financial compensation on the basis of this from the State budget. I do not know if Members are aware of this if the congregations have also given their consent. It is right, and somewhere in our legislation we have written down that in certain cases where matters concerning local communities are being dealt with, to question the local community for an opinion and so on; I do not know if you have this opinion - I doubt that you have it. And the last thing I'm gonna judge. I also estimate that these casinos do not generate as low profits as they speak. I believe that new investments, which, according to certain data, have already been made, after the previous Yugoslavia, as well as somewhere abroad, would have already been re-established - of course, the question is when, in what way will Slovenia benefit from this; we know that these things cannot be tolerated just like that - profits and other things. And the question is, what good will that do? But it is important - personally I think: if someone has an interest in this country, if he has capital, if he has an interest, if the profits are high enough, he will certainly find a way to invest his resources in an activity that will be repaid to him in some future period. That's a fact. If there is no such account, if there is no such calculation of the return on capital invested, then the potential investor will certainly not invest. Why do we have to lower our taxes now? In order for some accumulation to be created in this account and then someone will invest and thus make it possible in some distant future in this way - it is my opinion that, with the state money or the money of the state budget, they will make some investments that will bring some better results in the future. If someone has capital and they're making you high enough, I'm sure they'd be interested in investing in these industries. There's got to be something else back here; what exactly is, I can't say right now, I don't know. But surely, I am firmly convinced that other ways in this area could be invested, including by attracting foreign investors, domestic investors. The capital on our market is certainly enough, but, obviously, the interests of acquisition, other purchases of shares and other companies and so on and so on and is probably not for - where, of course, the profits are probably significantly greater - but here is the lack of money for investments in gambling, where I do not think they are that small. That could be basically anything. I would ask if I could have the answers to the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So when a person reads this law, especially what is written before the law, about the goals and assessment of the situation, why this marriage was needed, he has a rather strange feeling, sometimes he gets a little confused. In fact, it is written that the basis for the adoption of this law is the complementary strategy for the development of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the government. This raises the question of what is the complement to this strategy for the development of gambling adopted by the government. Is there anything written down that we do not know in Parliament that others do not know? On this basis, Parliament must adopt a law. In particular, it stabs in the eyes the part that talks about reducing concession fees. In fact, we must take into account the terrible budget gap that is in the state budget, in all this mess in public finances, in the absence of taxes - of course, different types of taxes; in the state treasury, money is running low at all ends and places, and the country is selling its assets or concessions, for example, for the next generation of mobile telephony, it is selling what state-owned enterprises are carrying "gold eggs" for the country, even for the budget, and with this money from the sold assets it covers nothing but liquid budgetary spending or the full budget hole. While this is at odds with every logic of a healthy economy, certain duties are hereby waived, which are not small. If they were small, then there would be no need to adopt a law and there probably would not be so much commotion about this law. This - and this is precisely what this is about - is that at the same time, excise duties on petrol are being increased so that the country fills its budget hole. I think this is the third or fourth time this year, after all, it doesn't matter; mainly every time we have cheap oil on the world market, instead of having cheaper oil and, of course, it would also have an incentive effect on the economy, because this bill states that it will be an incentive tax system with concession tax. That's okay. The term is good, the purpose is good; but if the final effect is that, then it is something else. And for the higher costs of gasoline, it is not a stimulating way for the economy, but the only purpose is to fill the budget hole, which will, of course, become even bigger here with this law. On the other hand, to fill this budget gap is foreseen - and this is also what the Minister made clear when presenting the budget for the next two years - an increase in value added tax. This means an average increase in all prices so that we can fill the state treasury. Here we give up this money, which is significantly easier to earn, because in the casinos money is converted daily, there is a daily deposit, there is no need to wait for the salary and when the customer pays us the goods, so that we can pay all the taxes. Of course, it's not like that, because you have to pay them forward, whether the buyer pays you or not. And at the same time, for casinos, of course, smaller benefits. Less than a billion. On the other hand - and this will be in the eyes - but when we had a reduction in the levies for books when it comes to small amounts, it is a matter of goodwill, it was not possible at that time, because it would undermine the VAT system and public finances. When we had a VAT reduction law for humanitarian activity, specifically with firefighters, it was not possible because it would undermine the VAT concept because it would undermine public finances. We'd have holes and stuff. This time, however, the government itself is proposing a reduction of money for the state budget. I guess there's something special about casinos. The government representative said that such a way of reducing concession fees would have a positive impact on the budget's effects a little later. I think, in principle, that kind of thinking is good. But why just the casinos? Why not somewhere else? And of course, I'm clearly asking the question of what this strategy is then. Is there anything hidden that all these rules apply to gambling and others are not applicable? And respectable! Allow me to remind you about a time about a year ago, maybe a little more when we had each other's government and then, because of the tax system and of course, the pricing of oil derivatives, it happened because the price of oil went down, and the prices of oil derivatives went down. And then everyone in universal Slovenia, who was from the second sex, shouted how stupid Bajuk's government was to give up money to meet the state budget and lower the price of oil, and convinced how good it would be for citizens to encourage cut oil. Here the government has not reduced anything, no charges, only taken into account the pricing system. Here, one government is lowering its own contributions to the state treasury. I'm not sure that this is such a good solution for public finances. I am also convinced that this solution is not good for the local community. Now the abolition of these individual slot machines, which are now scattered practically across Slovenia, is in every restaurant. Later this will not be possible and will only be concentrated in certain places. And, of course, those local communities where it will not be, will be deprived, despite all the lack of control that governs this area. Practical control is a problem in any way in all segments of our society, nowhere does it play well, even in the casinos. But the local communities will be further affected. I mean, those real local communities that aren't some big city where these gaming machines aren't going to be. Surely, however, the circle of those who receive these casino cakes will shrink. This means less for local communities and more for those who will be concentrated somewhere in larger centres. After all, and given that the government is looking at this a little bit more stimulatingly over the longer term, I expect the government to look so stimulatingly at other segments of the economy as well. It is likely that those exporters, 100 % or most exporters, expect some incentive mode of taxation to survive more easily in order to be more competitive on the world market, not just in casinos. Probably - I don't know, even in the tourist economy - they expect to be able to receive some incentive measure in the area of tax liabilities. Likely, those small entrepreneurs expect some kind of stimulating tax intervention; and probably firefighters expect some kind of stimulating intervention in getting their equipment, because after all, you are at risk for your own life, and you have to pay all the taxes. Someone who works in the casino - I don't mean individuals, but the whole segment of it - will be given special incentive measures. Of course, the one who goes into some kind of intervention with his life does not. I also expect the government to be so stimulating when it comes to providing incentives for books. I am sure that even if the book is more accessible to our citizens for a longer period of time, because we will probably learn something from the books, from that content, it will probably go back to the state treasury for a longer time. If this is not the case, if this is only the case for gambling, then I will not be sure that the government is watching this in the long term, but that it is only one measure aimed at a certain lobby from one segment of the economy that will not bring the country what it could, because on the other hand we will all have to pay higher oil, higher VAT and higher taxes; only one part of the economy, Slovenian companies, will be privileged. That is why I really expect the government, and very soon it will also introduce incentive measures for other segments of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debates of Members who have applied in writing for the debate. I therefore limit the debates of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. And I have two applications for such a debate, first Mr Drobnič and then Mr Terchon. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Let me also say a few words from my side. When we consider this law, and how we deal with it, I would agree with Mr Kebrich's statement that gambling is a very broad concept, which is applicable to this law, which we can, by our will, stretch, regardless of the business arrangements, regardless of the needs of the budget and regardless of the other circumstances involved. The gaming activity is certainly related to tourist activity, but there is no news. The claim that this activity is defined by countries as allowing activity. This is not the one that would be the engine of economic development with some good positive charge. That's something that countries still allow. That is why we can also look at restrictiveity in the creation of casinos. If this were an activity that everyone would widely support, we would leave free development. However, as we know what is going on with it and in it, countries are adopting a restrictive policy towards the development of gambling. In fact, it's often connected, often with mob connections, money laundering, prostitution, and more. And that's why it's so much more necessary to really control this activity. So, indisputable glorification of casinos. Similarly, there was a dispute in the previous casino system. As we know, the State Security Service, which carried out illegal acts in our country and abroad, was financed through the budget. State terrorism. I do not understand why the country did not approach on the basis of a serious analysis, which would also show here how it is with competitive conditions in neighbouring countries compared to ours. And why suddenly more than 50 percent reduction in concession fees. This will certainly mean what my colleagues have said: a reduction in budgetary revenues and a reduction in the activity of sports and disabled activities. In view of this action by the government and carried out by the government coalition, I expect similar behaviour, for example, for textile and wood activities in Slovenia, not just for books. For there is a great number of people employed there, jobs, indeed, with very low wages, which cannot be compared with casinos, but out of these live a vast number of people with hard work. Regarding casinos, it would also be worth reading the book Sanja on the Red Cloud Sanja Rozman. To understand what gambling is and what it means on a personal level. Two more things I'd like to touch two points of Article 2. The Minister shall determine the ways, conditions, types of games, the scope of the game arrangement and other issues. The Minister is therefore taking on the role of legislator. I understand you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that you wish to do so past Parliament. But it's an unworthy act. The Supervisory Board, that the Minister was involved in the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board, is certainly not intended to monitor this. Political surveillance is an extremely important, extremely rich activity. And what my colleagues have already mentioned before me, the comments of the secretariat have not been taken into account. Just to finish the thought. I therefore wonder whether it is necessary then to have a secretariat for legislation or why the ruling coalition has it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The previous panellists have raised quite a few concerns. I agree that the government could equip this bill with more information and better explanation and material. However, I would also like to give my own vision and answer some of the concerns raised. The question of the transitional period for slot machines when it comes to gaming machines as a complementary activity of catering activities, and whether this is constitutionally or not constitutionally controversial. The constitutional dispute at the end of the day shall be judged and judged by the Constitutional Court. Until he says so, it's hard to continue to say whether it's constitutional or not constitutionally controversial. The deadline is, in my opinion, given that it's three slot machines, reasonably long one year. However, I would like to point out that I agree with this concept when we stop this type of gaming machines or gaming activities. This is also due to the fact that in gaming salons and casinos, where it will continue to be possible with a concession of gaming activity or special gambling, it is strong over 95% of game guests of foreigners. In these cases, when it comes to 3 slot machines, up to 3 slot machines, the percentage of domestic guests is significantly higher. This should also be seen in front of the eyes when it was now being explained what gambling means at a personal level. However, the biggest concerns were precisely about what the government is giving up on budget revenues. See, these changes in the law are the result of the knowledge that gambling is breathtaking and that we need to do something if we want to do this our advantage, when we have the opportunity to set up gambling and also receive relatively high income from this activity, to keep. Let me just say one example for which data is available to me that the biggest gambling manager in Slovenia pays 1% of the state tax budget. Please show me a company in Slovenia that pays so much tax! At the same time, this organizer was reduced by 300,000 visitors annually in the last four years. That's the change of law. So the conclusion that if we continue like this, the gambling will dry up. Of course, then we also wonder what happens to those 10 billion or 13 billion that the organizer pays in the budget. Where are they going? They are also likely to cover some problems in activities where workers work hard, but the market situation does not allow them to forge such incomes. There's nothing given to the casinos. They've had too much of it so far. This change is therefore necessary. In the short term, the state budget and the budgets of local communities, especially in the following year, will indeed have lower revenues from this title. However, I did not see when I spoke with the mayors of the local communities to oppose these changes because they are aware that, for the first time, they will have profit and for the second time that if we do not do so, this activity and the revenue of the state and local budgets will dry up in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle. Is this a debate or a replica? The debate, please. Excuse me, is it, Mr. Kelemina, a replica? Then please give me this chance to know it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Instead of the government, Mr Terchoon probably explained a specific strategy. I hope the government will tell them. But, Mr. Tercheon, isn't there any potential investor in this country who would be willing to invest some money in the casino? Isn't there really any yield here in this area? Is everything totally on the dog, or what's actually here now? You're saying that it really needs to be good, I'm not going to say that in Europe, or especially here, in the vicinity, probably these gambling taxes are slightly smaller, in other parts. [[...]] They were relatively tall with us. Nevertheless, I wonder whether anyone in this country is ready, whether a foreign investor or anyone, to invest in the development of gambling in Slovenia. That this must happen by reducing this country's taxes. Tose seems to me that something is actually very wrong, whether there is no examination or not, or not, of what kind they bring. Something must be wrong. But it's very important what Comrade Petan used to say. Other areas are also certain if we, in the area of entrepreneurship, are to regulate certain matters that are extremely critical today. Just follow these matters a little bit through certain documents, magazines and so on. Go to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce. Let us also give them some opportunities to invest in the future. I firmly believe that the effects will be even greater. Let us lower our obligations to him! Why don't we do it? Will insurance now fill 5% or 10% of the budget? It will not, it will not; if we stay at one percent, as you say, it will likely be a success, or, I don't know, tell us what percentage we will then be in the next period if this is such a huge investment. Of course, it is now expected that, in fact, there will be a reduction in taxes when profit or income is increased, or some profit, that depreciation can be charged at a higher rate or how, I don't know, at what rate they are charging, that they will then invest in new buildings and then pay off the anuities from this tax reduction. This is now some kind of philosophy, how to get to some new objects, some new potential for the development of gaming. It's a basic philosophy, but I doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u53	Replica, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u54	Since Mr Kelemina has just touched on the investment, I would say that empirically proven exactly in the gaming activity, that where he invests, income is also increasing; at least that's what the representatives of the casino claim. The last such fine example is Kranjska Gora. This is why they also propose to be able to get a breath of investment because it is a specific activity that requires new investments in a specific cycle of two, three, four years. As for foreign investors, Mr Kelemina, it is important to know that we have casinos other than gaming salons in the majority state ownership. 60% of the shares are from the country, they're all management shares. The country collects a concession fee, plus municipalities plus humanitarian and sports organisations, the country collects a special tax in the form of 18, and the country collects VAT for investments. So, he collects the tax three times. Besides, the state owns it, it says, has a profit as a result. I don't see any reason why we should give it to some foreign investors to collect profits. As a result, this would mean less revenue in the budget, and that would certainly not make any sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u55	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. So, anyway, I'm replicating Mr. Tarchoon, but in another sphere, as he might expect. I agree with him when he said that as long as investments are made, income or profits increase. That's true, but it's not just about gambling, it's true for all segments of the economy. Those who do not follow global trends in the economy, which do not adapt their technologies to global trends, can simply write off the global market. This is said - and now let us go back to what I have discussed myself - if other segments of the economy were to be given a stimulating form of taxation, we would probably be much more successful and in the long run we would also get more in the budget, as the government's representative also spoke of gambling. So, the conclusion from this is what I have also indicated in my debate, let us also be so stimulating in other segments of the economy, not just in gambling. Why are we so discriminating towards the rest of the economy, except for gambling? Let us consider if perhaps now we are not at one turning point when we have indicated and acknowledged something that if tax policy is stimulating, that we can reach the final stage more for the country, for the budget. Why would this only apply to gambling, why is it not applicable to all segments of the economy? That's what I was talking about, which I wanted to point out. I agree with my colleagues who are in favour of this law in this case, but we also have to look a little longer in the long run. If I return to my colleague, Mr Tarchoon, again, he said why this segment of the economy - gambling would be given to foreigners, but if we can arrange it at home ourselves and have profit ourselves. Finally, I agree, and in relation to what is also the subject of this law, because of the new investments, we will reduce these benefits. Whether it is information that there are at least foreign investments in Slovenia or very few in relation to other European countries and candidates for the European Union, it is not exactly a signal and a conclusion that if we had the right tax policy, there would also be more foreign investments. Gentlemen, let's also think about this, and I think that's why this discussion is healthy, good, welcome, that it might just open our eyes. But, Your Honor, what applies to the gaming segment also applies to other segments of the economy. Let's get this spread out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u57	Mr. Kebrich has a replica of Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Petan! We have on the wallpaper, on the agenda, a proposal for a gambling law. It's hard to mix everything up with everything else now. I would like to point out who has deepened, not just into marriage, but a little into the casino and knows him, he needs to know that through casinos, salons, as we call them, mainly works on infrastructure. There can't be a casino doing itself as such if it doesn't have infrastructure, if it doesn't have hotel facilities, if it doesn't have a restaurant, if there's no tennis courts, if there's no pool, if there's no sauna, if there's nothing else where tourism is "uplifting". The basis of this is who has seen how the casino is also abroad, the basis of all that the local community is first interested in the widest possible gambling activity, because through this all other infrastructure objects, not just sidewalks, not just alleys, also asphalt roads to attract this, and from the fast roads, must be taken from the highways to get to the casino as quickly as possible. Let us have Members of this before our eyes, and then we shall resolve or adopt this law as soon as possible, with appropriate additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u59	Mr. Petan, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u60	Thank you. It's gonna be the last replica, because I think we've practically told each other everything we wanted. I just want to make up for that thought. I'm basically replicating a respected colleague who spoke before me. But again, I must admit that, of course, I am deeply in agreement with him. But why are we being so kind? All of a sudden, all we know is gambling. Infrastructure is also important for the economy. No one will come to Roglo unless we have a road. But not just for the casino. We need a lot of time for something else. On the other hand, of course, the local community is interested in infrastructure, but under this law there will be local communities, the number of local communities that will receive money will be limited. I also wanted to point out this because it will no longer be in all these centers where these machines, one, two, three, as many as there were, because this will now be concentrated, will also be concentrated on that number of local communities. That's what they say. Local communities will get less. And we have already pointed out this problem six months ago in changing VAT for purely specific needs, such as firefighters. And here I give you, Mr. Kebrich, fine. But let's give now that we've figured it out and we're all united that tax policy, if it's real, means a lot of other things, let's remember that. And when we consider any other law that we will then think the same and then vote the same. That's all I wanted to say, but I don't think it's necessary anymore, because now we're practically all united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u61	Now Mr. Kebrich wants a replica of Mr. Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u62	Short. We agree, it looks like everything. But don't let us tell you that the inn, I'll just say, has two, three machines, running some infrastructure, some tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u63	It's a replica. Mr. Onion. I'm sorry, I didn't say.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Replica to Mr. Kebrich. See, Mr Kebrič, you mentioned gambling as regulated in the European Community or in European countries. I have to tell you, you don't know much about gambling. Given that this amendment of the law limits local communities with machines that have now operated in the field of local communities. The leader of the parliamentary group said that with regard to transparency, with regard to the control of the machines themselves, we agree. But I completely disagree with that. Look, I've been to Ireland recently, and let me tell you, it's in every restaurant, not just a guest shop, but also in the shop-species. However, they do lead from the country itself to complete control. And of this one part has a local community, a region and, of course, a country. Of course, in order to keep the funds in local communities. With this law we go to the concentration of one lobby, which is clearly easier to implement and under control, but this also takes a certain proportion of the local communities where these machines were now. This is a limit or a quota of 50 and more automats, which in certain local communities at this time is unlikely to be available to any of those involved in this activity. And here you are greatly mistaken. In principle, I also object, given that the Ministry of Finance and the Office of Bets could also go in the direction of the law that certain European countries have. Then additional income can be sought, both for the state budget and for local communities, and possibly also for regions that are likely to be in our parliament or in the country of Slovenia, in order to be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u66	And this claim, Mr. Kebrich, is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has a debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I have to say a few words about the logic of emergencies first. Whoever read the material could see when the law was adopted, when the strategy was adopted, when a special addition to the strategy was adopted. This then knows that if the number of stakeholders or visitors in our casinos fell for about 300,000 years, then he knows that this need did not arise in September of this year. I do not believe that, in the absence of transparency in public finances, this government would be able to come with complete transparency in this particular area, which is obviously very profitable. Today I have had the privilege of meeting some of the high representatives of this industry and have learned about motives or interests and projections and so on. I have no objection to the fact that casino management represents some interest and tries to enforce it. I am surprised, however, that the casino owner does not do this or is lagging behind because if the owner knew what had happened, he would not force us into the logic of emergency situations. So I'm protesting that this is also being sold as an emergency because I don't think he deserves it. It is also probably not appropriate, it can be tactical, but I do not know if this can be sold as a strategy to count on the potential adoption of a law in Italy that is not yet - so do not say that it is already - and then take some measures here. In this regard, I would also say that in the present presentations and discussions, I do not have any assurance, nor do I have any transparency as to what will actually pass through these tables, which, as some forecast, have come to the parliamentary groups, what is really going to happen. How should we, as opposition Members, in particular in view of the fact that several times in this House, the majority of us have voted in favour of a decision or a proposal for a decision to get a glimpse of the house? For example, the first such beautiful thing was the TAM rehabilitation programme, when most voted that we should not see Members. But we voted for billions in TAM. I am interested in how much of this money can go beyond our gaming needs in Gorica or Portorož or elsewhere in investments outside the country, some are started, some are functioning, and some are still supposed to be. I was told that no, but of course I have a right and almost a duty to doubt that this reduced concession could be passed on to some place, and that I have no influence as a Member, even though it goes on after all - we know from what money. Another time. I am strongly opposed to the same logic of concentration of power that the ruling position is increasingly asserting in the financial, political and also wants in the administrative field. So what some fellow Members have already mentioned, this blow after a private initiative, dispersed, of course, is obviously even less controlled, although all control mechanisms are available to the State to introduce them, obviously not, so why is it necessary when the management claims that due to the changed strategy or the new state of the border something needs to be relaxed and invested and then more obtained, which is, by the way, contrary to what the government says. However, the government has informed us that the main basis for change is a complementary strategy. So at the very beginning, I have two different motives for why we're going into this matter. And I would advise you to end this schizophrenia. Why is it necessary to put into the same basket the question of slot machines for which the owners paid the concession fee and paid even hundreds of thousands more for some kind of control, which apparently, as it says here, does not work and is often under unnecessary pressure in the area of control [[This last paragraph, I'd say it's hard to understand.]] . I'm against this concentration logic. If there is a lack of control, which is not due to the opposition, but those who have been in control of it for years now have a strategy, they are tactful, then the state should exercise proper control, not abolish the dispersed possibility of profit, which is then known at local level. This goes along with the desire to limit the development of local self-government along the constitutional path. Me and our Group of Members will oppose this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I would then expect government representatives to answer the questions raised in the debate. In particular, as President, I would like answers to the views of our secretariat, where it has been explicitly stated [[This is the position you have.]] , there were some very serious findings and comments, but in their opening remarks, at least to most, you did not respond. Now it would be good if we received comprehensive information or answers to these questions before concluding our first hearing. Please, will you, Mr. Tolar, will Mr. Ivankovic be possible? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to speak a few words on all the comments that have been made here. Perhaps it is bad that some of you are not familiar with the 1997 strategy for the development of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia, even though under government law and positive legislation everyone who wants to see it has access to this strategy. In most cases, all these reasons leading up to the adoption of the new legislation are listed there and are found in the professions, the casinos themselves, the unions, the Chamber of Commerce and all entities which decide in any way on gambling. In recent discussions, there have been growing comments on the amount of the concession fee that it should not be reduced due to the needs of the budget and so on. Maybe he'd start here, and then he'd explain something else. The concessional duty by its nature is, if we understand it in a legal sense, something out of the ordinary, I could say a systemic tax which is not known by the other legislation which provides for the taxation of legal persons. Therefore, if we have a medium-to-average profitable activity that cannot be taxed by the corresponding taxes existing in the country, a concessional duty shall be fixed, which shall be additionally taxed on the basis of the profitability of an activity. That's the way it is in the casino. Playing is a medium-to-average activity which was not able to be properly taxed by ordinary taxes and therefore the State has prescribed a concession tax here. The worldwide concession fee depends on what the state of play wants to achieve. Whether gambling wants to develop whether it wants the revenues that are derived from this gambling by concession, to be placed in social, tourist, humanitarian or any other programmes, and thus somehow balances the development of gambling in its country. There have also been speeches about the European Union and if this is harmonised. I must say here that the White Paper on accession to the European Union does not concern the field of gambling and also in the European Union, gambling is left to the individual country to regulate it in its own way. This is precisely because in all European countries, as well as in the world, the levy on gambling is strictly directed towards certain projects or certain activities. As a result, they are not under any pressure to influence this segment in each country, for they should immediately give up in their own countries. An additional argument is why the State of Slovenia, in the field of concession fees, wants to reduce concession fees slightly with this legislation, which we now propose. In fact, he wants to encourage the development of gambling. But the reason for that is simple, gentlemen. Visits to Slovenian casinos, which average over 300 million German brands per year, are based on 97% of visitors. In this case, this development of gambling activities in no way undermines any social relationship in Slovenia in the sense that it would impoverish the population or that it would harm the Slovenian economy. In this context, Slovenia can think about gambling in a progressive way, can think with open cards and can balance with it through a concessional benefit, whether it develops it or does not develop it. In this context, this proposal for a duty is also directed in such a way as to encourage this activity. This taxation did not occur overnight or just in mind, but they did various studies on this matter for a long time. Finally, the Centre for International Competitiveness carried out a study of the average of visits to Slovenian casinos a few years ago, a few years later, what is happening to global trends, and came to an analysis that additional investments in gambling could encourage the development of this activity and consequently, with relatively reduced concession tax in the long term, bring even more to the state budget. There are studies in this, and this has undoubtedly been proved. In an illustration of what I've just said, I'd only say a few things. Playing in Slovenia began in Portorož in the 1960s and was negligible in terms of profitability against other economic sectors. Its expansion took place in the 1980s, when casinos in Goriška began to open and when this first development trend was, in fact, detected in Slovenia. At that time we record in Slovenia, and this year in 1985 200 thousand visitors in casinos. In its greatest bloom, in 1996, we record 2.5 million visitors. Do you have any idea what a leap this activity has been made by its development? This is followed by benefits from this activity, which in 1994 amount to 5 billion for the state budget, and in 2000 the state budget collects 12.4 billion from the casinos, either through a concession fee or through gambling taxes or through a profit tax. When we're talking about reducing the gambling fees, I'd only ask for an understanding of that. This is not a tax relief that could be compared to a relief for other industries, as no tax in the casino is decreasing, only a concession tax, which is in any case in nature an additional levy imposed on the casino itself. And it's going down. This needs to be stressed in order to understand this concept. Secondly, what I might add here is why the area of gaming machines is now regulated by this law and in this way. I must say that the existing regulation in the 1995 gambling law, which was - hand-to-heart - adopted quite restrictively because of the events of 1990 and so on, which were negative for gambling, has introduced some restriction in this area. The Act on the Prohibition of Property Transformation and Investment and the Expansion of this Activity since 1994 has somehow prevented gambling. During this time, this segment has grown unusually due to the possibility of gambling on gaming machines and has taken over a developmental place that should take over the gaming industry. The existing regulation in the gambling law is such that an organiser who wants to operate slot machines outside the casinos can perform it as an additional activity in catering activities. So he doesn't need any authority to do that. Just imagine the number of slot machines he wants, put them in his own place and report it to the tax authority and start doing it. If we want any restrictions or controlled growth of this activity to continue through the law, we should amend this law. And that's exactly what this law introduces. It does not limit this activity in any way. We currently have in Slovenia - do not hold this data that has recently appeared in anonymities, which you have also received, that we have 1500 machines and 2,000, but I do not know how many machines outside the casinos - currently there are between 800 and 900 slot machines in Slovenia that are registered in the field of additional guest activities. The current regulation in law allows only controlled growth of this activity, so that to these same organisers, of course, those who want and have developmental potentials and developmental desires to develop this activity even to the maximum number of slot machines, that is 4 thousand. This is said to be a possibility in law, a 4-fold increase in this activity, of course through controlled, concessional burdens, the same as in gambling and so on. These are the elements given in this law. I would only add that the law before you has also been compared with all European legislation in the field of gambling and also globally, and that it is a very advanced law allowing the development of this activity, while introducing at the same time all the elements of control that are known in any way in the world in this segment. It was also a question of why the Ministry of Finance was left to further regulate this area by means of sub-legislative acts. Gentlemen, simply, with advice from all the gambling countries around the world, this is a trend that is on the rise. The sophisticated way in which casino activities are carried out is in constant development. The use of leisure time in gambling, entertainment and so on is a trend in the world that is on the rise. Today in the world you have an unusual development of gaming machines, entertainment devices and so on, which are increasingly electronic, increasingly accessible than the Internet, games via mobile phones and so on. These are incomprehensible dimensions. This activity, in the supervisory sense, should only be monitored by law, which is very strict and is its adoption process and therefore relatively long, is probably significantly better if it is allowed to regulate it with some of the under-laws which are relatively faster. Of course, not in the sense that this would be unconstitutional or whatever, so there are all the institutions in the country that supervise it. Under-laws cannot go through the law, they cannot allow anything that is not in the law, but they can define certain matters in more detail and help to essentially law enforcement. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u71	Mr. Peterle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u72	Thank you so much for the replica. I expected the representative of the government to devote more attention now, however, to the answers in the direction of the opinion given by the secretariat for the legislation, because matters are very precisely recorded, as regards the rapid or reduced procedure, as regards the enforcement of public interest, and also as regards the amendment of the concept of law itself, and in the 5th point of the principle of views on the deletion of the transitional provisions of the law itself. That means, I would say, and I repeat this criticism once again, that kisses continue to matter what the commissions, committees, Members, in short, some go on. It smells like an anti-birocratic program to me. The government official says, and the materials also say that the law needs to be supplemented. Look, I was in politics myself when this law was passed. Even then we had the best profession, I think the same profession five years ago than five years later, and we had to believe and it was the ugly one who thought otherwise. The Anti-Birocratic Program is the same: so far, the same team has been building bureaucracy, and now it will be undermined by the Anti-Birocratic Program. It's not serious stuff. It was said that it was necessary to do this in order to allow -- I wrote a quote -- some new catch. What if that doesn't happen? We're going to go even lower, or if, I don't know, this money goes somewhere, we don't have much control. Then one thing was right, I'd say, upset me. Mr Ivankovic said that these slot machines scattered across Slovenia, that the number, if I heard correctly, had become unreasonable. What is unreasonable about the market economy, ladies and gentlemen? Why is that unreasonable? Why, though, would it not be unreasonable to concentrate matters and whether this golden geese is carrying only if there are 50 appliances together, or if there is little profit even if there are few appliances in a restaurant, because of course the owner does not have enough money to get them 50, and there is no such need. I am absolutely against this concentration logic and with this particular control. I am sure that the profitability of gambling also works in a dispersive way, and I think it's very impolite for us as a country talking about a market economy to cut some segment that someone doesn't like. I don't think it's going to hurt this great gambling, but it does, although I'm against it in principle, some possibility for those who don't want to go to Gorica or Portorož. I would just like a government representative to respond to the very clear positions of the secretariat for legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I also ask the government representative to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have also taken a lot of these comments into consideration and eliminated them in the Committee on Finance. It is not about not taking these comments into account. Some of the principled comments that have been put forward, and we have made quite clear in the additional discussions and explanations that we have presented at the time of the hearing on the home committee. I think we have been able to take the utmost account of the Secretariat's comments on legislation. Certain things in the casinos, gentlemen, are unified and are known around the world. We cannot here from individual terms and thus continue to use some notions and use some of our own hot water in the field of gaming if world trends are going in this direction. We've just made modern legislation. With regard to Mr Peterlet's recent comments, I must say the following. Concentrating the number of slot machines in the salons is exactly what he asked. Exactly this new law allows for concentration. It allows those who will invest more money in this, including an inappropriately larger purchase from this title, greater profits, greater potential for further development and greater potential for prosperity through presentness. The activity of slot machines outside the casinos, based on two or three slot machines, was virtually impossible to control from the state level. This activity was too scattered. Gambling as such, gentlemen, is only for adults everywhere, it is strictly forbidden to participate in minors, it is strictly forbidden to build such places near schools, kindergartens and other facilities, which society values in its own way by moral or other principles, so we believe that through such a way of regulating this area, through the concession type we would allow further development of this activity. Thus, it is not possible to take into account the findings of these organisers that the state wants to destroy their activities. On the contrary, this activity is increasing, as we have seen, from the existing 800 to 900 vending machines to the option of 4,000 vending machines - it is said that this is increasing - of course, with appropriate supervision and controlled activity. Mr Peterlet's next question was who was to guarantee that these investments would really happen and that the revenue from this would eventually increase. See, through all the elements of effective control that have been rewritten in this law, there is no doubt that the process in these activities will be monitored by the most modern technology in the world. At the same time, the investment potential of these companies, which will have to invest in the extension of this activity, will also be monitored through influence in the supervisory boards, and the expansion of this activity will mean a new value created and a new concession fee and their amount for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u75	I would like to point out two things: that, from the point of view of the functioning of the National Assembly in the plenary, it is unacceptable that representatives of the Government, who, at the express request of Members, to answer the question, have already said so elsewhere. I ask you to respect the rules of the game and behave with dignity in this room and to respond explicitly to at least two questions which are procedurally very important, whether you are or how this is now regulated, when it comes to the comment of our secretariat, which appears to you in your proposal for a law, that you wish to regulate by means of a sub-law the substances which should be detained by law under Article 87 of the Constitution. So, the explicit question was raised by the three Members. You didn't answer that question. I also ask you to answer the question of what is the impermissible deletion of the transitional provisions of the law, as our secretariat says. These two, please, must be said because this is important in the context of the general debate, so that, since Mr Barovic's procedural proposal has already been announced, it is easier for Members to decide on these matters. As President, I do not go into substantive questions, I am only talking about the procedural aspect of this debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have already said that most of the comments made by the secretariat for legislation have been taken into account. In particular, on this question that you have asked, whether we have complied with the provision that the transitional provisions of the law are not deleted, we have taken it into account. In the amendments you have to propose this law, these provisions are taken into account. With regard to the issue of sub-legislative acts laid down by the Minister of Finance, no sub-legislative act is brought here in order to be able to say that it is wrong or unconstitutional or in any way. Certain articles referring to extremely difficult issues such as "on line" control or other areas that are regulated and considered in these articles by means of sub-legislative acts are so extensive that they do not simply fall within the law. I must say that instructions on the implementation of "on line" control already exist in Slovenia because some organisers had to have this system; there are 15 to 20 densely typed pages, which are precise computer expressions, because it is a control through the computer system and so on. We believe that if such matter, with all these provisions, were put into law, this would be disproportionate. At the same time, this matter is rapidly changing and monitoring it in the sense that it is helping the organizers to use new technology to enable them to use new machines, so that control can also follow this, it seems to us that it is much faster regulated through sub-legislative acts. Of course, it is impossible to predict, in advance, that these illegal acts would be contrary to the law or that they would be unconstitutional. I say they won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick. They're replicas. Dr. Bernick, then Dr. Companion, Kelemina. We have three replicas now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, Mr Ivankovic, there is no doubt that he is an expert in this section. But I'm a little surprised we didn't get the answer to the questions. First of all, why there's been a lack of control so far. You just said that from now on we will have very complete control and so on. But since you've been in this function, I think we should explain. Secondly, you've given us some interesting information that we might be able to provide earlier to shorten this debate. I am surprised that when the government proposes such laws, it does not at all send enough data, financial and other information on the basis of which to decide. This was the case with this proposal for a border. Nor should the Members have received the geographical charts. There was also a proposal for a contract for a cracking power plant. There were no financial analyses, but in fact there was one annex which should contain this. It seems strange to me why we don't have that. In your case, I'd like you to explain to us whether it's a secret or not. Look, I believe HIT submitted today or yesterday to some Members an extremely professionally designed analysis of what this law will mean for them. Like all these things that are inflated, there's a lot of things that a person doesn't believe, but a person can still pull some kind of core. Thirdly, has there ever been an analysis of the perspectives of gambling in Europe. After all, in the long run, we should anticipate what will happen and what will happen so that our gambling can adapt to it. I think what we're doing right now is relatively short-term. I'm so sorry to have to say this. Fourthly, the last time on the committee we talked about this - because we tabled three amendments - that there should also be a Slovenian language in the labels in the casinos. You said it wasn't necessary. I think that if the gambling strategy is part of the tourism strategy, I think that the promotion of Slovenia would not be bad here too. There seems to be no consistency between the tourism strategy and the gambling strategy. I don't know who's coordinating this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to address this issue in the replica, which relates to the attitude of the secretariat and then the Government's position. Mr. Vice President! You surprised me when you strongly urged government officials to behave with dignity. I would say with full responsibility that Mr Ivankovic is a worthy representative of the government. I have been following his work for many years, and if all the departments were as good and professional as Mr Pavo Ivankovic, then the National Assembly would adopt better laws than it does. I would also like to echo briefly to my esteemed colleague, Dr Bernik, when you have opened the issue of control and how this law will now improve control, while Mr Ivankovic has previously performed some important functions in the field of gambling. That's exactly what this is about. The field of gambling is that dynamic area that is constantly evolving. And I know and know the climate of gambling from eight, seven years ago, when the matter was much more politically sensitive. There were affairs and so on. Everything since then, Mr Ivankovic, has been growing professionally in this area and is truly an expert and also a moral authority. I trust him. If he comes along, I believe in the solutions proposed by the government. I am also a little more familiar with some issues relating to the issue of control and development. The country must, by means of legal solutions, allow this highly sensitive activity to develop. However, with legal and other norms, it must be strictly monitored and controlled. And that's what Mr. Ivankovic always talks about. And the solutions proposed go this way. I am sure, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we will find out together, and these are the experiences of countries that have much more, decades and much more experience in the field of gambling, that this is one of those activities where, unfortunately, the elements of the market offer do not fully play, my fellow Peterle. There is such an activity here that it is the duty of the State to enter with responsibility its own regulation. And that's what this law makes possible. I also believe that it is not an obligation, but I am not opening a controversy here, it is not an obligation for a government representative to respond to every opinion written down by the secretariat on the spot. If he does, he's fine. If he does it on the working body, it's even better. However, if this is taken into account in the proposed solutions, it is even better. I would like Mr Ivankovic to continue to work successfully as Director of the Office for Monitoring of Gambling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Podobnik, I did not talk about Mr Ivankovic's work, not before, not now. But I have talked about the fact that government representatives do not answer the specifically asked questions, and I have considered this to be an unworthy fact. So much for an explanation. Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Personally, I would not like it to appear in any way that I do not agree, or perhaps that I think that Mr Ivankovic would be unprofessional or anything. I'm sure I never meant to say that, and I never meant to. But the fact is, because Mr Podobnik has now praised him a little - personally, of course, I don't know all his work - but the fact is, whoever wrote this bill is flawed, there are certain shortcomings. As I said before, for example, the strategies did not deliver us, you did not give us the number of the constitutional decision, say. I have to look for all this for myself. That's the kind of thing you have to say. In addition, certain solutions have not been made as expected. While you are now saying that you have answered all the questions - it is true that we have left those final provisions that the secretariat has warned about, with the amendment and so on. That's right. You've taken these things into account. There are some things you haven't taken into account. I'm not going to say that this is now I don't know how far contrary to the Constitution or any legislation, but there are things that aren't set up that we haven't cleared up, you know, that's what this is about. A number of things are not cleared, and a law will now be passed, where we do not really know how it will endure, even in the light of the secretariat's comments, a constitutional assessment. On this occasion - I don't know if the secretariat has spoken or not - asked for the opinion of the secretariat, or whether it believes that now, with these proposed amendments, which will also be adopted, all the dilemmas it has put forward are resolved. I don't know if the secretariat's checked in, but I personally don't think so. But if you say otherwise, it's your business. However, the fact that, of course, the government is not obliged to answer Members' questions, if it does not want to answer, it does not want to answer, nor does it want to respond to the Secretariat's reactions. This is a fact; the government can propose it, insists on its decisions, and the ruling majority will bless these matters as usual. But if possible, I would nevertheless ask for an answer to Mr Ivankovic's implementation if the secretariat could give its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u83	Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't think it would be necessary to come forward, but I can see that it is necessary, because I did not get an answer to my own question, which was not specifically asked, but I asked the government to tell them what it was like to do with these burdens in neighbouring countries for this activity. You have generally replied that the European Union does not specifically regulate this. I was not interested in the regulation of the European Union. I was wondering how our gaming position was compared to gambling, for example, and in northern Italy, Austria. That's what I was wondering. And why, whether it really took more than 50% to drop concession fees in order to become competitive. In fact, the indications are that casinos invest their cumulation into other countries. This is also, in fact, what we can say is that government officials are acting indecently; it is not about what they have done in their lives before, but about what is required or expected of the National Assembly. If I keep going. So you mentioned that the government has already changed something. Now I don't know what she changed because the marriage is in the first reading. All we can say now is whether the government has prepared amendments to this law to correct what the secretariat has pointed out. That is why the question now applies to the Secretariat, or in view of what has now been tabled, we can delete any comment from the opinion of the Secretariat that the text has been so improved. Logically, things have to go this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Squirrel, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u86	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I am confident that the government representative will answer these questions. And I also agree with you, Mr President, that in your performance you have not valued Mr Ivankovic's work as the director of the office. I had previously forgotten in my reply to say that Mr Ivankovic, in his first speech, had explicitly answered the question about the acts of law. I heard him, so at the first stage he answered the question why they decided to make such a solution so that the Minister of Finance could issue more detailed rules on ways, conditions, type of games, scale of adjustment and so on. He said, in short, that these are the experiences of other countries in this area. Here it is necessary to give a broad mandate to the Minister to respond to very current and dynamic developments in the field of gambling. Mr Ivankovic gave this answer and then repeated it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Beatenchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. On the part of the secretariat, however, I think it is necessary to resolve the misunderstanding that touches on our first principled comments, namely the sub-legislative acts. There is no dispute that many issues need to be resolved by means of sub-legislative acts on various issues, in particular practical ones, as well as adaptations. However, within the framework of our Constitution, we have a provision for the administration to operate within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. This is said to mean that laws should actually allow this administration to adhere to them. This is said to be the case that there cannot be some kind of blanc clause in the powers for sub-legislative acts, but that the sub-laws must be based on the criteria laid down in the law. We simply point out that, in Article 2, Article 3b and Article 16, which contains a new Article 99, we have the power to say something like this: that the Minister responsible for finance may prescribe certain matters both as well as other matters relating to the management of this activity. We point out that it is already in force, which has now been supplemented by the repeal by the Constitutional Court, that is to say that the already in force regulation has actually experienced repeals because of the fact that its provisions were not sufficiently clear, that they were not based on the framework laid down by the law and that therefore the constitutional hierarchy of legal acts was not ensured. Repeals were made on the basis of Articles 2, 120 and 153 of the Constitution. We simply point out that the envisaged solutions also do not fully guarantee a legitimate principle. If the Minister can prescribe sub-legislative acts on other matters, we do not know about which, and thus do not indirectly determine all obligations and rights, as should be the case in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitution, we also point out this because many times the Constitutional Court, due to an unfulfilled legal principle, repeals the law. As regards some of the other comments that we have also made in the framework of the principled comments, however, they are of a legal nature. We are of the view that it is possible to review the institutions used, such as the licence, and to determine whether their use is yet in line with the system as it is in force in this country, and whether, in fact, it would not be possible to achieve the same objective with someone else, by any other arrangement that would not have introduced ambiguity into the legal system of licences. As far as the exercise of licensing and the position of the Commission and the standards are concerned, the minimum standards to be taken into account in this regard do not, in fact, have any provisions. That is said, we do not object to any further regulation under the law, we do not object to any aggravation or more precise determination of control. However, this must, of course, be within the framework of the conditions laid down by the Constitution and within or at least in some way in agreement with the legal system, which, of course, we have in certain areas in the country. However, certain comments, as the Government representative has already said, have been taken into account, we cannot withdraw our comments now, we never do, our comments are of an advisory nature and are taken into account by the National Assembly in its decision-making, but sometimes not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? We're at first reading. No one else. Since no one wants more - but yes, we have to finish this part first. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. And since a procedural proposal was announced by Mr Barovic - I think - has been announced - I ask Mr Barovic to present this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u90	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr. Vice President. The possibility of a procedural proposal gives me the rules in force, namely the interpretation of XXX, an interpretation of Rule 203 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I have decided to submit to the National Assembly the following procedural proposal that, or that, the second hearing does not move forward with this moment and that the second and third hearings continue at the next or one of the future meetings following a regular procedure. Such a procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u91	Just so we're clear, please don't insult me because I'm trying to follow you again. So, Mr Barovic proposes that the second and third examination of the bill be carried out on a regular basis. Is that right? Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? The debate is possible under the rules of procedure. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then there's no debate. Since there are no debaters, we are moving on to a decision on Mr Barovic's proposal. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 Members present, 21 to 40 voted in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that Mr Barovic's proposal is not accepted. I am moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on this proposal, please. Let's vote! Of the 62 votes in favour of 46 Members and Members, 12 were against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 4.10.2001. We've all received this material. We're just starting with the first Sorry. [[...]] Procedural? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u92	Mr. Chairman! Members of Parliament have received a new review of the amendments on the table with today's date. I hope that this has been delivered to you, as Chairman, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u93	I'm sorry. They gave me a review of the amendments of 4.10. And we'll see what's going on right now. Thank you very much, Mr. Tarchoon. Now I have this material that you reminded me of. Thank you for your warning. Now I hope that we can start by discussing the amendments and, of course, also making decisions. Can I? Good. Article 5(5) We have one amendment at the time of Article 5. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 5. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This is essentially Article 5.b and therefore there is no need for a full vote. Article 7 We have an amendment here. The proposal is to delete the article as you can see. Who wants to talk about it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the article is deleted because the amendment has been adopted. At Article 8, we have two amendments. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 8. Who wants a word? Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I will support the second amendment and oppose the amendment of the Finance Committee. The amendment is also ready for debate on the committee itself, and at that time we have found that some form of influence in the supervisory council the government must still maintain, given that this company is majority state-owned. We have therefore also drawn up an amendment following this debate on the Committee. And I call on you to support, that is, the fellow Members and Members, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u95	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 8. If the amendment under order number 1 is adopted, then the amendment under order number 2 is immaterial. Procedurally, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, I request a half break for consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. This vacation would have somehow ended just before 6:00. I'm taking 30 minutes off. We'll pick it up at 5:51. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u98	Please insert the cards. We'll be there in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen. 17.52. We're detecting a presence. Please, if you can press the "quorum" button. There are 47 Members and Members present, so we are in agreement. As you know, we have stopped to vote on the first amendment to Article 8. NSI representatives requested a half break. Please, Mr. Peterle, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! After the consultation, I shall communicate the following position to New Slovenia. Our party has not been and is not opposed to addressing the legitimate interests of the gaming industry in changed circumstances, but it cannot distinguish this issue from the question of how the proposer or the executive branch wants to do so. Because we are here, in this House, the legislative authority, in particular, by or on what has been expertly identified by the secretariat for legislation which has been set up and which some of the key observations of the constitutional or legal nature of the proposal are not ready to be taken into account; therefore, we have warned on our part on these matters, put some questions into question, and therefore we thank, for some of them, and we regret this, but, above all, we note that even after we have supported the proposal of our fellow Member, Barovic, in a different procedure, we can only argue that we are doing so in accordance with the rules of obstruction. So, New Slovenia will then no longer participate in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Is there no more discussion? Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Social Democratic Party, on the basis of a consultation within the parliamentary group, we have also drawn up a position that we have not been given answers to the fundamental questions of constitutionality and legality or the conformity of this law. The secretariat has drawn attention to serious concerns. We have not received any answers from the government, and we believe that these concerns are still open and that the adoption of such a law would not be in the name of a national assembly, and therefore we do not intend to participate. Moreover, we have also observed an unusual event today - this is that, despite a very in-depth debate on the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of this Committee has not submitted a report and has not cooperated at all, nor has he authorized anyone to do so on his behalf, which raises an additional issue also with regard to the content itself, not only to the legal application of this proposal of the new law. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we feel that it would not be good to support such a law. Moreover, we believe that we do not want to participate in any further procedure leading up to such a decision, so we are also predicting obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u102	Thank you. Following the procedure, we now have a vote on the amendment. We're replacing leadership.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. As has already been said, we have first amendment to Article 8. If this amendment is adopted, the second amendment will be irrelevant. We're voting on the first amendment. Present 47, one for, up to 43. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on the second amendment. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 for, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus Article has been completely amended. We must now move on to Article 40, given that this is linked to Article 40. Please take a look at the material, page 10 under 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on amendment number two. Please. 49 Members and Members present. 46 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We're going back to page 3, for a new paragraph 9a, one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote, please. 48 present. 46 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted and Article 9a was adopted. According to the hour, we need to be procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u104	Mr Vice-President, given the hour and the fact that we are in a rapid process and still have a few amendments to vote, I propose that we do this today to the end. So let's keep going until we're done.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u105	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in favour of a proposal to conclude today's session? 49 present. 42 for, against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] The proposal was adopted. The meeting shall continue until the conclusion of this item. Thank you very much. We have a new Article 12a under consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 51 present. 49 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 13, one of the amendments of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. We're voting, please. 50 Members and Members present. 48 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Attending 49. 47 for, versus 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] The Article was fully adopted. We are moving on to the new Article 14a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote in favour of Article 14. Let's vote, please. 49 Members and Members present, 46 for, against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the new Article 14a has been adopted. We move on to Article 16 with five amendments. First - Barovic Bogdan, second parliamentary group, third - Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, fourth - Nova Slovenija and fifth also Nova Slovenija. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. Just because there is no explanation in the review, let me say that the proposal is an amendment to Article 16 to delete Article 92. The explanation in the original amendment is as follows. The determination that a concessionaire for a gaming salon can rent a gaming device only from the manufacturer is discriminatory and is contrary to the Constitution, in my opinion, because it gives priority to those manufacturers that finance the purchase of gaming machines on the market. Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I inform you that, as long as this amendment is adopted, the second and third amendments are irrelevant. Let's vote, please! 47 Members and Members present. 11 for, versus 29. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Unfortunately, attendance is only 45. I'm asking you to concentrate. We're voting again. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members present, 44 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In this way it has become an amendment under the number 3 immaterial. We still vote on the fourth amendment. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, 5 for, 46 for. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted; in this way it has become an amendment under Article 5 irrelevant, and an amendment to Article 27. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 20 under consideration. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present for 47, one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 50, against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. As you have seen, this amendment of the committee is also linked to some other amendments to different articles. We're moving on to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amendment, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 for, one for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're going to Article 24 right now, because we're going back. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 24? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members, 47, against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 29, which is also connected. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting, please. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 44, against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Article 30 is also related. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members present. For 45, against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 30 has been adopted. The amendment to Article 31 is also linked. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please! 52 Members and Members present. For 49, against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going back to Article 21. Two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm concluding. We vote on the first amendment to Article 21. Let's vote, please! 50 Members and Members present. 47 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members present. Forty-six, two against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 21st full. Let's vote, please! I'm asking you to concentrate. There's more of us in the hall. Let's vote again. 48 Members and Members present. 46 for, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 21 has been adopted. Since we have voted on the amendment before, we are only voting on Article 22 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote, please! 50 Members and Members present. 46 for, versus 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. The same is true of Article 24. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on Article 24 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 48, against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 24 has been adopted. The amendment to Article 27 is irrelevant. We have an amendment to Article 29. We have already voted on the amendment, so we are voting on the article as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 for, against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 29 has been adopted. Article 30 is the same. We vote, please, on Article 30 as a whole. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 for, against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 30 has been fully adopted. We're moving on to the 31st. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 for, one for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 31 has been adopted. We're looking at paragraph 34. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 34. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 12 for, 35 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to Article 35. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 48 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment was adopted and the article is lined up. I apologize, we have not yet voted on Article 34 in full. We vote, please, on Article 34 in full. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 46, for 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] Article 34 was adopted. We're moving on to Article 38. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate, we vote on the amendment to Article 38. Let's vote, please. 51 Members and Members present. Forty-seven, versus two. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. The article is exactly the same. We're moving on to Article 39. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote, please. Let's vote. 47 Members and Members present. 44 for, against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted and the article lined up. We move on to Article 40, to the first amendment. We've already accepted the other amendment because it was connected. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] One moment, please. The first amendment is irrelevant and therefore we will not vote on it. Since the article has been completely amended by the second amendment, we will not vote entirely on the Article. We move on to the amendment to Article 43. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 51 Members and Members present. 46 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 43 as a whole. Let's vote, please. 51 Members and Members present. 47 for, against 3. [[For vote 47.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was adopted or the article was adopted. We're moving on to Article 47. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 50 Members and Members present, 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. It's also an article. We move on to the amendment for the new 47.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please. 50 Members and Members present, 48 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted and the article was adopted at the same time. Can I have a moment, please? By article 16, we noticed that we did not vote on the amendment under number 5. Please. This is the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote, please! 50 Members and Members present, 13 for, against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. But we've already accepted the article. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Please. Target, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u108	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. I only have one question. We also did not define ourselves until the 27th Article, which I believe is related to Article 16. I now ask the secretariat whether it is necessary to determine whether it is irrelevant. Given the non-admission of the 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u109	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. If I may explain. In fact, the amendment is linked and because of the lack of acceptance of the basic amendment, the criminal provision is therefore irrelevant. Thus, the conclusion was correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote, please! 47 Members and Members present. For 44, against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand the other articles have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, please, please, please, please, Please, please, please, please, please, [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's vote on the title of the law. Let's vote, please! 49 Members and Members present, 47 for, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading, amendments were adopted to a greater number of Articles 5b, 7, 8, 9a, 12a, 13, 14a, 16, 20, 21, 24, 29, 30, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40, 43, 47 and 47a. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. I'm calling off the vote. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Most of the reasons why we proposed a change of procedure, I said in my first reading on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, so I will not repeat. Since I am sure that such a rush does not lead to quality or usefulness, which we will probably all be able to see together a little later, and because I am so much more, I will say, not sad, but a little disappointed, because at Article 16, the 5th point that was the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members could certainly be accepted; for if, in addition to foreign inscriptions, there is still some kind of casino, Slovenia is certainly no harm. It is a shame, however, if they are not, what you have voted against here, and by doing so you have merely resisted a group of Members, but that is your problem. The Slovenian national party will therefore not support this bill in this vote, and we also say that we will not take the blame and consequences that will result from the urgency and poor treatment of the content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-16-SDZ3-Izredna-10.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 46, for 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We have two additional conclusions. The first additional decision was tabled by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy [[is on page 12]] . Anyone want to discuss an additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the first additional decision. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 42, against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the first additional decision has been adopted. We are voting on another additional decision [[on page 13]] . We also vote on the second additional decision on page 13. We're discussing, I'm sorry, proposalant Davorin Terchon. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote on another additional decision. Let's vote, please. May I have your attention, please? 45 present. Let's vote again. Please. 48 Members and Members present. 41 for, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The second additional decision was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and today's session.
