ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Colleagues and fellow Members, good morning and good day to all! Please take your seats in the hall. Colleagues and colleagues who are not yet in the hall are kindly invited to join us. I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues: Bogomir Vnučec, Dr. Andrej Bajuk and colleague Yuri Malovrev for the afternoon part of the session. Please, by inserting the cards into the voting devices, establish the conclusion. We're picking up the locks in the hall! I find there are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I invited the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, candidate for the Ombudsman of Mr Matjaž Hanžk, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everything between us, and I want a successful day for all of us. Today's continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 2nd item of the agenda, namely the re-decision on the law on the conversion of free-duty shops at road border crossings with the Member States of the European Communities operating within the European Union, to border stores and on specific control measures for these shops. The assembly will then proceed to the consideration of item 2.a, this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect the Ombudsman and then to proceed in an agreed order. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law on the conversion of free customs sales in road border crossings with the Member States of the European Communities operating within the framework of the European Union, in the field of sales and on specific measures for the supervision of such sales. At its 60th meeting on 7 February this year, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to decide again on the law on the conversion of free customs shops at road border crossings with the Member States of the European Communities operating within the European Union into border stores and on specific control measures for these shops. Does the representative of the Council of State want to explain the request of the world? Mr. Mag. Dušan Semolič, a member of the state council. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear Members, good morning, good afternoon! Thank you also for the invitation and the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Council of State two in favour of the decision adopted in the Council of State by which the Council of State requests you to reconsider the reasons before the final adoption of this law. It is undeniable that the European Union is not only a political, economic, but also a social model, which is very demanding and, therefore, the countries that want to join the European Union, we are looking at the protection of the political, economic and social interests, of course. That is why entry into the European Union cannot only be a problem of our diplomacy, politicians, economists, but in one part also the problem of civil society, including trade unions, workers and workers, whether employees or unemployed. We don't argue that the pot is heavy. Nor is it possible to overlook that so far Slovenian diplomacy has done much on this path. The National Assembly, by adopting some very important laws, has certainly contributed to our being closer to a goal, such as our common destiny. But this path is certainly also an interesting conflict, because the interests of each other often cross and it is difficult to find compromises on this path. But many countries, first in the European Union when they decided to do so, followed this path. Let me just remind you that when countries in the European Union have abolished free-customs stores in this form, as we have it today, they have taken eight years to take these decisions into account. All these economies, which are inadequately stronger than Slovenia, were aware of problems related to the abolition of "duty free shops". However, our neighbours are very attentive to their interests and protect them despite some of the European Union's actions. Let me just remind you, what honourable Members and Members are sure to know, the behaviour of Austria on our border - this is this famous tobacco law - the conduct of Italy and who else could count on the fact that the country must in the end reasonably protect its own interests. In addition, when the European Union requires us to respect the four freedoms of the foundations of the European Union, that is to say free movement of goods, free movement of capital, free movement of services and work, it has basically double criteria. Slovenia is very fast - because there was no choice - recognised these three freedoms. We have opened borders, opened trades for goods that come from the West, which is quality, certainly also competitive. At the same time, many of our factories have collapsed because economic space has expanded with its legitimacy. But in the free movement of people, when there is our interest, Europe, the European Union is closing down. But it's just part of a broader story. To move on to what is the subject of today, not the debate, but the decision-making. We were aware that with Slovenia's entry into the European Union "acquis communautaire" demands, the European legal order requires the abolition of "deuty free shops". It's understandable. Borders are falling and the function of these shops is certainly changing. It was not possible to expect the behaviour of the owners of these shops, as well as of the workers, in order that, on the basis of the discussions that had already taken place before, on the basis of the discussions, they would, on the basis of expectations, be able to identify redundant workers and to throw workers on the road when they were still profitable. They hired about a thousand people, directly, directly. And because of this, it was normal to wait for marriage and to have the law put in place some hands, which, of course, by law then require certain conduct and conduct of all who are involved. It's for some normal country, some kind of axiom. And in this part, it's just that critical point. We don't dispute the law as a law, because the law is necessary to make things right. But the critical point is this deadline, June 1st to reshape these stores. The argument that, as Slovenia, we will lose credibility, credibility, in our firm conviction, is not true. The European Union certainly, with the exception of some of our neighbours who are directly interested in closing themselves yesterday, but not tomorrow, to really adopt proposals in this law, so that by the end of the year these 'deuty free shops' will act as they do. However, the law was adopted and sent to Brussels, only instead of this unfortunate date on June 1st would be written on December 31st or December 1st, a matter of some reasonable agreement. But these warnings go in this direction, that this deadline is too short, because some other laws governing labour relations, the labour relations law, collective agreements, which are legal documents requiring a six-month period for some work, for the right to appeal, for the preparation of programmes of redundant workers. And with this deadline on June 1st, this thing can't really be realized. Infringement occurs, and of course most importantly, workers feel overwhelmed by it. And that the burden of problems should not have been borne by employees at all times, this is a warning to those who have prevailed in the state world. However, in order to reconsider the arguments for and against this well-respected assembly, it is in its own conscience that it should consider again. We are aware that Slovenia's entry into the European Union will soon bring about the problems of some other groups. They're customs officers, freight forwards and someone else. We would simply like to point out that when our politicians promise, they accept certain things in Brussels, as an integral part of a policy that is here in Europe, they pay particular attention to this social component. That when something is concluded, however, taken into account, is dialogue, it talks to people who will be directly affected. The Council of State, in view of what I have said, and the arguments that you have received in the proposal of the Council of State, asks this honourable assembly to reconsider the arguments, of course, but also against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much, mag. Dušan Semolič, a member of the state council. He wants to explain the government's position as competent minister, Minister Bavcar. Please, you have the floor. However, I would like to ask my fellow Members not to disturb the speaker. Short pursuits are often inevitable, but long chats disturb. Please, Minister Bavčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representative of the Council of State, Mr Semolič! The government opposes the veto and proposes to the National Assembly to confirm the law. There are two reasons for that. The first was repeatedly mentioned in the debate on this law, which is a blockage of negotiations. At this point, this issue or the non-admission of this law is blocking us from two key negotiations. Negotiations on Chapters 10 and 25, which would mean that Slovenia will be stopped in its ambition to try to conclude negotiations by the end of this year. The second reason is completely internal. If you want a reason for balancing businesses, free competition, not least the positive budgetary effects of such a proposed and I hope that today's legislation will be adopted. This law does not concern the issue of labour law in any way. And given that we have been talking about this law for six years and we have been talking about this issue for six years, we have finally decided when we adopt the excise law, which has reached a hearing in this respected assembly, in which it was important to spend one of the main products sold in these shops, namely, cigarettes, tobacco products, reduced precisely to the expense of preparing for the restructuring of these shops, so that, in my opinion, it can be expected that, on 1 June, when this law is applied and after it, it will be sufficient time for the competent administrations to sell, together with the country, in the manner provided for in this law, they will resolve possible issues, including on the part of or possibly affected employees. As you know, our analysis shows that we can maintain the activity of these shops. The law is highly favoured in its technical part of this transformation in a way that would minimise the future activity of these shops and allow them to maintain and maintain the majority of jobs, with new services, of course in the context of trade, in the way they do in other European countries. I am convinced that costs cannot be reduced only at the expense of employees. This is the responsibility of the owners of these shops. Let me say that, of course, what was said here by Mr Semilic, that Slovenia's entry into the European Union brings new challenges, including problems. While noting the problem of certain activities exposed to new competitive pressures, let me mention the undeniable fact that the success of the Slovenian economy, which exports 70% to the European market, depends to a large extent on our future commitment to this economic, economic, political and security space. From this point of view, the best answer - I am sure of this - to the challenges of the future is our early placement in this space at the formal level, which means Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We are confident that by voting on this law, the way to this goal will be opened as quickly as possible, and in this way it is also possible to close the chapters in important parts of our negotiations as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Minister Bavcar. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is the parent labour body responsible for this law. Does the rapporteur or the president want a word? Please. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The request of the Council of State for re-decision on this law was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and, following a short discussion, decided to propose to the National Assembly that the law should be adopted in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in favour of the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote. Excuse me! You want to explain your voice? [[Yeah.]] I'm calling off the vote. I pressed the attendance key too fast. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'd like to explain my voice. I will vote in favour of the law. In the whole process of adopting this law, I have advocated that the deadline for the conversion of free-duty shops would be longer and for certain measures of active employment policy, but unfortunately not in the law, which I regret now. However, in the event that the veto succeeds and the law is not passed, I think Slovenia would find itself in a really big mess. If we look at the chronology and length of the adoption of this law, we can safely say that in the event of a veto, marriage would not be a good time. This could pose a serious obstacle to Slovenia's integration into the European Union. That's why I'm going to uphold the law myself. I would point out, however, that only a few days after the adoption of this law in this National Assembly, the European Union has allowed 37 exceptions to the Member States, including the beneficiary price of petrol in three Italian provinces along the border with Slovenia. This measure is, in my view, very harmful to both non-European and Slovenia, as it is estimated that only direct damage is more than $100 million per year; and this represents an inappropriately higher loss of profits than profit from free-of-customs shops. I therefore expect that the government will, as soon as possible, prepare measures to mitigate the effects of this non-European measure. I will also engage myself in this direction, and I am already preparing some legislative initiatives to ease this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. They would like to explain their vote to the National Assembly of Comrade Jelinčič and later to colleague Janš. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this law alone, and I will vote for the marriage to fall. The law will probably not fall, but the fact is that under this law Slovenia guarantees itself a place among the slave countries that are ready to do exactly what some commissioners want them to do. The fact is, the Italians have been assured that they can sell gasoline at lower prices for another six years. The fact is that Austrian conservators can do what they want and that the decree restricting the transfer of tobacco products to Austria still applies. Both decisions are against the basic will and basic direction of the European Union, if we can trust it at all. It appears that Europe is doing everything and only for its own interests, but some Slovenian fools are squeezing it and are ready to take off their pants for anything just to be European. The Czech Republic has shown a significant increase in pride and has extended the duration of its duty-free shops for three years. Europe itself has taken eight years within Europe to adapt. Greece, which is in the European Union, still has duty-free shops. At all airports in Europe, duty-free shops still change only the title: the word "duty free" has been added to the foreground to the word "travel value", which is the only difference. Prices, terms of purchase or sale, everything else is the same. Once again, Slovenians will pay a tax to some of the urgent statements made by certain former ministers who were ready to be written about them in some European reports, or who were willing to be treated by someone on their shoulders, willing to agree to everything. That's why I was hoping that the National Assembly would be able to do so much pride and would reject this law. Once again, I personally, as well as our party, do not agree with such pressure from European logos, and we feel that this is another major mistake of the Slovenian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. In line, colleague Janš, Peca and Barovic. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law, as will all my fellow Members. What mistakes have been made, but the State Assembly is in a position to adopt this law, we discussed when the law was adopted for the first time. Let this be a lesson for the government in future negotiations when it comes to accepting the conditions for entry into the European Union. However, the promise has been made and no matter what government gives it, it binds this country. If we are to be credible, this must be accepted, regardless of the fact that this will also have some negative consequences for the national economy. In doing so, however, it is necessary to weigh the negative consequences if this law is not adopted. This would certainly cause significantly more damage, both for the national economy and for the political and international credibility of the country. This is probably what this National Assembly must be aware of when we vote, as well as every individual Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. I give my word to my colleague, Mr Pečet, after him, my colleague Barovic. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	Ministers are talking about the positive financial effects of closing free-carrying shops. The minister was talking about fiscal, tax evasion. But the minister wasn't talking about those unemployed people who were going to do it. Apparently, the Minister's job is not close to his family. He doesn't care about those who lose their jobs. Well, as a member of the Slovenian National Party and my colleagues, it doesn't matter. Therefore, we will not support the law, as Mr Victory Jelinčič has already announced. Nevertheless, it would be useful to reconsider the words spoken by all the debaters that we have ever discussed on free-of-carry shops before making a decision. It would also make sense to listen to the State Council, which has drawn up one position this time, on one side of the employer, employees and all those who are interested. It would make sense to listen to the Chamber of Commerce, to listen to the public, to the general public, to the general public and to the lay public. In their essence, everyone said that Slovenia was ahead of schedule. If we are closing down free-of-customs stores, let's shut them down at the moment we enter European integration or integration. Not before. A related country with about the same status, the Czech Republic, has shown that it is generally necessary to take care of its own country and not just to bow down. But no, Slovenia will also act in this area - once again, I stress or repeat - of the servants. But in this case, this law, let's say the law with the PCP code, is not just about PCPs. It is one of those introductory laws that will lead to further behaviour, and let's say, next time we will meet Brussels's request for the so-called debt of the Ljubljana Bank, the Austrian demand for the abolition of the awnings and the like. No, today we will show a plan on how Slovenia will, say, respond to similar requirements from abroad. Whether these requirements are justified or not, we will not listen. We will not, we 90 will not listen to us, nor will the expertise, but those who support this will look blindly at a study that this same minister, who is telling us today about the positive financial effects - perhaps part of the budget, but certainly not those who live on this budget and local communities that have a positive impact on the existence of free-of-tax shops. There'd be a lot to talk about. This National Assembly has also spoken a lot. Some have changed their minds today to tomorrow. Of course, it's their legitimate right, depending on how you recruit. But to cut back, because I think everyone has already made up their mind or they've told him how to act and how to press. I will vote against the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much, buddy. The last one on my list is my colleague Barovich. You have the floor. I'm asking everyone else not to disturb the debaters. Each of our colleagues performing has the right to obey his word with respect. Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Every time we talked about this marriage, I answered, and this is how I'm going to do it this time. I have read the law so that I can only understand what is good for Slovenia and what is good for it and bring it to the European Union. But I'm sorry, you really believe me, not for one thing or another, except for two articles, these are the 4th and 10th articles that talk about control, but these two are probably related to other acts that many of us don't know about or think about, what might have happened. I've been thinking about what the European Union is trying to do, what's positive, what's good about it. I did not find any positive effect, except that maybe some Austrian neighbours or Italian neighbors or, I don't know, Hungarians will not come to a duty-free shop and they will leave that money at home in their country, which is probably nothing against everything else, change in Austria, Italy, Hungary, anywhere else. But I have learned why the European Union sets and insists on such requirements. These are not the European Union's requirements for Slovenia to join the European Union as soon as possible, but I have learned that these are the "a priori" requirements of the European Union of Slovenia to keep Slovenia as far away from entry as possible. This was proved to me by the following requirement that Slovenia regulate bilateral relations with one country, even though these relations are a completely internal matter of these two countries, but the European Union has made a new request. Once we have met that requirement, as we have done so far, the European Union will put in place a new and new one. And the 2003 anniversary, which everyone wants, will move to 2005, for 2007, to the detriment of everything that we have done today or that we will do and accept today. Once again, I do not know what the European Union will gain, but I know from experience what Slovenia will lose. Pride, which is the most, of course, is a few hundred jobs, which I am sure this composition of the National Assembly will speak in a year or two. That is why I will vote against my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I give my word to my colleague Kelemina, his colleague Peterlet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I will vote in favour of this law because the Group of Members has decided to do so and because I believe that it is necessary to respect the word which means something in the European sense, more than we do in Slovenia. However, I cannot help but point out that this Minister, Mr Bavcar, who is in charge of this area, does not know what he is saying or is misleading the National Assembly and also the Slovenian public. He said, among other things, at the previous meeting of the National Assembly: The study has shown exactly the opposite, that it is in our economic interest to abolish this tax privilege. Furthermore, the net financial impact on the state budget is positive when we abolish this financial and tax privilege and pay back this money and do not take it out of the pockets of taxpayers. It was a quote from the previous meeting, a quote from the minister. So it is a financial privilege that we will end and which will have a positive impact on the state budget. On the other hand, we leave these free-of-carry shops in certain areas, as at the border with Croatia and so on, the Hungarian border and continue to allow financial privileges, and we also do so, following this assessment by Mr Bavčar, to the detriment of this country and the state budget, because there will be no financial impact that will actually be with the closure of these free-tax shops. Now, of course, this is about two things. Either the Minister does not know what he is saying or he is deceiving the National Assembly and the Slovenian public. Nevertheless, I will vote in favour, because it is necessary to respect the word and decisions that someone needlessly has made, according to my assessment, even after an unnecessary offer somewhere, and thereby cause great damage to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemini. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Members and Members of the New Slovenia do not need to be called on to be state-of-the-art. It is amazing, however, that these same people today talk about the need to respect commitments, the people who have taken care of it and bear all the responsibility for the fact that Slovenia's credibility before the European Union has fallen heavily due to the double unfulfilled deadlines. It is well known that there were two hands. The latter was on 31 December, and it is not true what some claimed to have caused any change in power. Prime Minister Bajuk was very clear, he said, "If there is room for manoeuvre, we will take advantage of it, if we find out that Ghana will be there, we will present a final solution." This was also done, but the majority in the National Assembly, or even in college, decided not to give the law a day in the autumn when it could still be decided and the deadline followed. In December, the new coalition decided to postpone the matter to the following year. This is not about the opposition. Now we're full of state-of-the-art. I followed this matter at home and through Brussels sources and found that Brussels was no longer dealing with this issue. They were just waiting for it to happen or not and it wasn't happening again. I think that Slovenia has suffered a great deal of damage, not only on the negotiating side, but it is not just about blocking things. Brussels is talking about "lack of commission". I think we all understand that word. It is extremely important for every candidate country, and I would not like it, I would not like a similar story to happen to us again. Now it doesn't matter whether Thaler wrote it or not, the one who promised. The Slovenian government has promised to do so and has ordered itself to carry out the matter, and has not carried out the two deadlines. So when credibility fell heavily, I'm sorry it happened like that. Of course, I will uphold the law because of the credibility of this country and also the fear that it would not happen again in the coalition to be one for and one against. Here we save this time of the country, not some industry that has, of course, had years to prepare for this change, and of course separate between those who lead the matter and those who work in this matter. So I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Once again, I ask for peace in the hall! Anyone who talks has the right to be heard. If there's a need for dedication, there's room enough in the lobby for that, I don't think it's fair to bother our colleagues. I respectfully ask the MPs not to disturb. However, to all others who come to the National Assembly, I forbid them to speak during the time of their appearance. My friend Bernick has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I have all the sympathy for the people who work in these free-customs stores. But I have no sympathy for those who own them. Why? They simply had a long time to prepare for this moment, but again and again they want to prove that it is impossible. Every businessman knows if he's threatened by some kind of disaster at the end of the tunnel, he'll be well prepared for it. I didn't hear any argument, really, that would apply here, that that's not possible. The same goes for unions. If we really cared for these people, we would have long since begun procedures in which these people could be employed or given a different direction. That wasn't there. So, these are crocodiles of tears. But let's get back to the beginning. The beginning was when the Slovenian government, through its current Minister for Foreign Affairs, agreed to do so. I wonder, and I don't really know, but I wonder if anyone was protesting at the time. Did anyone then bring this thing to the day that it's waiting for us? Well, now we are before the fact that "acta sunt servanda" and despite the fact that the European Union has double standards here, we have said that we will do it and we are already delaying it for a while, now we are before that "acta sunt servanda". What can we learn from this? We can learn that we were not mature for international relations at the time and how some things need to be set up as a Slovenian requirement not to do so after the deadline that was agreed. I wonder if we're ready for this now. I guess not. But I need to know that we have to do this, and if we do this, we will learn something for the future. I hope that this will be a good lesson for all of us, but especially for the government and negotiators, who also have a lot of work ahead of them, and if they really have Slovenian interests and the interests of a small person in mind, then such mistakes will no longer be made. I'm going to vote somehow in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick. I ask, does one of the Members want to explain his voice or one of the Members? Please, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We voted against this law at the previous meeting. We have also mentioned the reasons which, in our view, are largely too short a time to reshape, and in our view, this also means the closure of these shops. At the same time, we think or support the State Council's arguments because of the socio-economic problems that will arise, and because public revenues are not likely to be positive, because there will be too little time for restructuring and for defining new business policies in these shops. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Before we go to the vote that there will be no need to interrupt again, I ask, does anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to point out that the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, must be for the adoption of that law by the majority of the members of the national assembly, that is to say 46 or more. We're voting. There are 81 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 67 voted in favour of the law, 10 opposed it. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda - Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Ombudsman of Human Rights. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed by letter of 20 February this year to the National Assembly that Mr Matjaž Hanžk be elected as the Ombudsman. I'm asking the representative of the office, does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal by the President of the Republic was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't either.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. He asked his colleague Janez Podobnik to present the views of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. However, I welcome the candidates to the National Assembly Hall. Mr. Squirrel, you have the floor. Mr Janša is behind you on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable candidate, Mr. Hanzek. Colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Today, the National Assembly decides for the third time on the proposal of the President of the State for the Ombudsman. Despite the fact that there was no debate on the working body less than an hour ago, allow me, my distinguished colleague and colleague, to take advantage of the business opportunity and act as the leader of the parliamentary group. In my presentation, I would like to explain whether I may also comment on some statements, opinions or media information that were particularly present in the Slovenian public yesterday and also touch on the positions and positions of our parliamentary group. If I could take them, I would take them in the following: Only the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party does not support the candidate and stubbornly insists on their own and all other members support them. Why don't you support him? I'd like to say the following in this place. At the time that yesterday around 2 p.m., the President of the country proposed a candidate for the Ombudsman, he is the only candidate in the procedure. Of course, the SLS + SKD Group does not have its candidates and the procedure is clear - we must identify ourselves with the candidate proposed by the President of the country. However, I also explained to my colleagues, to others, in the National Assembly when they asked me, as well as to the public that they would nevertheless like to meet the candidate, because his presentation, which was presented on the call, was a very short presentation, only in a few sentences. Only today, or yesterday, when the President made a proposal, there are references to the proposal. So some articles and other professional engagements of the Ombudsman candidate. I said, let me, however, define ourselves in the Group of Members until the proposal of the President of the State. In particular, I would like to explain the record or part of the record that is in the proposal of the President of the State, which reads: "I have found that in political parties, there is a great deal of difficulty in exercising those views on the Ombudsman, who sees in him a distinctly supra-partisan institution, which, within the rule of law, is completely autonomously concerned with the protection of human rights when other state institutions, because of misapplication or non-compliance with laws and other regulations, overlook this in concrete procedures." And since later, when the President of the State wrote down which parliamentary groups support his proposal and not just ours, it could therefore have been that my position was with the President of the State that I did not strongly support the superscientist institution regarding the Ombudsman's institution. At least two should be said. A month ago, the president of the country proposed a very party man for this city, and in principle this is nothing wrong. I told the President of the State at the interview that I do not agree to discredit people who have a party "pedigre". In Slovenia there is parliamentary democracy, being a member of the political party is something positive. A parliamentary or non-parliamentary party is a political medium through which various political interests are established. And my position was with the President of the State that in no way should it create the impression that someone who is not party-bound is automatically more valuable. Maybe even the other way around. Sometimes the retreat to superstition can even be a retreat from responsibility and clear definitions. That is why I also reject the last thought in the letter from the President of the country that we will respond to public expectations and once again demonstrate our willingness to subordinate our clientele to national interests. All my achievements, our parliamentary groups, or even the performances of the President of the country were in no way contrary to national interest when we identified ourselves as individual candidates. Being a member of a party is not contrary to national interest. And we expect something else when we may, perhaps in a month, get a candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who will even be our fellow Member. What, then, will it say, is customer affiliation bad or good? So we expect consistency of views. We don't think phoning non-partyism is the right way. Mag. Matevž Krivic wrote today in Dnevnik, "as yet exposed by a representative of civil society at the moment when he became an ombudsman, he becomes a high, international compared even a highly paid public official. Part of the state apparatus in a broader sense." And then it's his personal assessment: "It's a shame for every good president of a civil society organization to be sacrificed to the state, so that, without much chance of success, it can help to remedy her mistakes." I am also obliged to say that our assessment that the current Ombudsman, Ivo Bizjak, has done his job very well and, despite the fact that a member of the political party, his client relationship has led in an corrective manner and has not in any way tarnished the role of the Ombudsman. The report prepared by the mother labour force today, as well as the proposal by the President of the country, where the fact that the candidate is not party-bound, does not indicate the position of a respected candidate. According to our information, candidate Matjaž Hanžek is a government official who works properly and convincingly in one of the official government offices. Why isn't that written anywhere? This would also be part of a full presentation of the candidate. So I'm politicising against the principle of subterraneanism, not against the candidate. The distinguished Matjaž Hanžek did not wish to meet the Members of our Group. This is neither necessary nor necessary. But we received a proposal from the President of the State yesterday around 2 p.m. and we were already informed by telephone about the proposal in the morning. We would very much like to meet with Mr Hanzko and perhaps discuss some of his views and visions of the future of the Ombudsman's institution. For six months, the state is looking for the Ombudsman, and then everything has to happen in battle for half a day. The only information that Mr Hanžek has on this institution was in today's Del record, where Mr Hanžek uses his own intuition with him also a more "concerned" term. It is only here that we can see his view of the future of this very important institution. Dear colleagues, you will understand that our position was correct. We would like to meet with the candidate, talk to him - when he signed up, he wrote only four or five sentences, because there is no need anymore, about the vision of this institution he spoke little or nothing. We respect his engagement in Kosovo, Azem Vlasi is mentioned twice or three times; it is only part of the vision of this institution. Here and now we live in Slovenia and we would also be interested in this vision of how the protection of human rights in Slovenia will be guaranteed by the Institute of the Ombudsman. Personally, I only know from the expert articles on the candidate's involvement in social exclusion and poverty; here, I think, as a sociologist, he is a great expert. I also know some of his other views, which are even contrary to my personal position, for example, regarding family policy, but I respect his views. However, I would like to ask him how these views will be exercised as the Ombudsman. Therefore, I do not think that dialogue and silence in this case were a good solution. We would be very happy to listen to the candidate if he wanted to, and if the President of the National Assembly would give him his word, and then, on the basis of his performance, we would also decide on the vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you, colleague Podobnik, head of the SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party. I will give the candidate, if he so wishes, the floor to address the national assembly after the end of the debate. Comrade Janez Janša, leader of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, behind him colleague Potrč, leader of the United List of Social Democrats. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are more than 80 of us present and every one of us is in the way of a speaker. Comrade Janš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Candidate, colleagues and colleagues! We will vote in favour of the proposal, for Mr Hanžk, or for the Ombudsman, for two reasons. The first reason that wasn't important at first, and of course it is now - we would have closed our eyes to the truth if we didn't admit it - is that the institution of the Ombudsman has recently gone into a crisis because of all these developments, even because of the clumsy moves made in proposing the first two candidates, which has led to a crisis that has led to the reputation of the Ombudsman, who, hand in hand, even during the first term, has not been very great, yet has been reduced. And a country that takes human rights seriously cannot afford it. Thus, the first reason why we will vote in favour of the President's proposal is that the end of this crisis and this wavering and the controversy about what candidate would be most appropriate to meet all possible and possible political criteria. In all these discussions, it was forgotten that Slovenia has since the late 1980s and early 1990s. For years, the tradition of fighting for human rights, which extends to civil society, and that they are the people who participated in it at the time. The second reason that relates to what I have already said for support is that among the candidates who applied for this institution - I think that there were 23 more besides Mr Hanžk - with the exception of Mrs Virantov here we do not find people who would have any human rights to deal with. Even in the first election of the Ombudsman, it was not about these criteria, but it was about the farce that was made out of this criterion, that the former Minister of the Interior was proposed and elected to this place, around which there were many concerns, all the time, and it was not taken into account in the first two proposals for this second term and, on the basis of this, there was an obvious impression that the criteria were completely different from those in a normal country. And there were more and more people who either lost their jobs or thought that you had to have a ministerial career in your biography to become a human rights guardian. A completely different environment has begun to be created, as is normal for some democratic tradition of a civilized country, which in its constitution is originally written down as based on respect for human rights. The images of Mr Hanžk and Mrs Virantova in this last list of candidates were virtually no people who would have had some experience in any way of defending human rights, and not as, I don't know, paid lawyers or civil servants, but as activists in civil society who did so because of their inner conviction and their own inclinations, but not because they would have been paid for it. So our substantive reason for supporting Mr Hanzk is that he has already been involved in the protection of human rights, at a time when it was not so easy when it was necessary to expose himself, so you were not paid anything, but you could even be arrested, persecuted, interrogated or otherwise bullied. And with this work, he proved that he was simply taking human rights as a universal value, not related to race, not to nation, not to political belief. These are arguments of a substantive nature that will lead to our Group of Members supporting this proposal. Of course, this does not put our hands in the fire for the successful work of Mr Hanžk. He will have to prove himself in this place, not only in reaching the level that his predecessor has achieved, but that he will greatly exceed it if he wants to meet the many expectations that are in this country, because human rights are often violated, very large, very large. Not only me, but also many of my colleagues have experience from our sent-in offices, when people come to us who have actually been violated by human rights, some are also very drastic. They bring along a bunch of papers from different courts and also from the Office of the Ombudsman. However, since it has so far been mainly about an administration or correspondence on beautiful letters coming from beautiful offices, from an institution that has been protected even by the police, by security guards and so on. However, most of these letters, which people show, are uncontentual. What has so far been missing from this institution has been just the efficiency of this institution, because it is not just one person, it is a relatively human-powered office, it cannot be achieved by placing the burden on another, just by writing some institution, this one and this one has come to me with this problem and because we think that you are competent, please, if you solve this. This comes into another office there some official takes it into his hands and thinks, but maybe we're not the most competent one and sends it on. And then round it up. The person who has been affected is asked for answers, at least now this is happening mostly, the institutions are responding, but there is no effect. We have not yet seen the Ombudsman appear at a press conference and take the lead in some drastic concrete case. Because it only changes and helps, not only to this particular person who is affected, but it also changes some climate in society so that it becomes more sensitive to similar situations. And this is what we expect from Mr Hanzk, whom we believe will receive sufficient support today, so that this institution can begin to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you, colleague Janša. I'm giving my word to my colleague, Miranda Potsch. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Candidate, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we stress and understand the importance of the Ombudsman for the rule of law, for confidence in law, for the protection of human rights in our country. We are convinced that human rights are never protected enough. Each infringement, if very few, poses the greatest problem for each individual and requires the most careful and most organised and successful solution. Such an approach has also given us in the Group of Members the reason why we decided two years ago to give special attention to the Ombudsman's report and to give his report in the last two years also his views, his views, and, above all, to propose to the National Assembly that some decisions should be taken to stress the responsibility of the Government and the National Assembly to deal with and begin with certain activities on the basis of warnings given by the Ombudsman regarding his work. For this reason, we stress the importance of such a Ombudsman, who will be an autonomous person, with a high moral reputation, who will demonstrate and prove his commitment to human rights in the work so far, by acting within the institutions of civil society. We believe that we need in the guardian country, which will carry out a difficult duty primarily by listening to human rights, but not by listening to it, to simplify it, for the country, by clearly ensuring that it helps, on the one hand, to remedy the specific violations of human rights, but to the same extent, to try to identify, from a large number of violations, where there are also causes and to contribute as much as possible to addressing the causes of human rights violations, whether these are the concrete actions of the responsible individuals in the State authorities that cause them, or also inadequate legislation and the practice of regulating certain issues. Therefore, to give initiatives to the public to give initiatives to the government to give initiatives to the National Assembly, by requiring concrete action, that, like many other institutions, it also directs itself to parliamentary groups and Members and tries to gain the involvement of those responsible who can contribute to the resolution of certain questions about relevant legislation. I think that a guardian is needed to be trusted and, at the same time, to be sufficiently authoritarian of the state authorities most responsible for human rights violations. In the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, we assess that the personal characteristics and the work so far, the concrete commitment to human rights, the professional and publicist activities of the candidate, provide the basis for the likelihood and confidence that Mr Matjaž Hanžek is a suitable candidate for the Ombudsman. Members and Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats support his candidacy and we will vote to become the Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much, colleague Miran Potch. I give the floor to my colleague Zmaj Jelinčič, who will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Is there anyone else who would like to present the views of the parliamentary groups behind your colleague Jelinčič? My friend Peterle. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Slovenia, the Institute of the Ombudsman was somehow strangely pushed aside. We were the only country in the world that we had in this important place the former police minister, the former minister who let the cops get beat up. And in his next term, he took the "sinekura" to protect those men who were beaten before by his officers. It's a complete farce. And yet this happened in Slovenia. We had a proposal for an ombudswoman. Mrs Darjo Lavtijar-Bebler, who I personally think would be very capable in this area and legal knowledge would help her. We now have Mr Hanžk's proposal, which, if elected, with a good salary, will also be able to buy a tie and a dress to show due respect to the National Assembly, because when Members arrive dressed as I am today, we also show our attitude with our clothes on certain matters that we are discussing today. However, this is the privilege of Members. The rest of us are supposed to respect the National Assembly. When Mr Hanžek expressed his attitude towards the National Assembly, he showed it when he received the dinner beans for statements about Members. The Institute of Human Rights gives a heavy responsibility to the one chosen for this function or assumes it. It also gives the responsibility of research into state terrorism when it has been committed by the State. I'm talking about my personal case when the MORIS members planted a bomb under my car and when the then defence minister was protecting them and when they were protected by the then police minister who later became an ombudsman and who is today the minister of justice. This is also the case with the protection of human rights. And state terrorism is the worst form of terrorism. This is the terrorism which, as some say, has led us to leave the former Socialist Federal Yugoslavia association, which has changed the system and led us to parliamentary democracy. The number of cases that the future Ombudsman will have to discuss is increasing. The social distress in the country is growing, with the attacks on human integrity that we have made in the National Assembly today, when we have adopted the law on the closure of free-of-carry shops in a slave country, this tribulation will be even greater. The unemployment rate will increase, and the number of suicides due to irregular conditions in the country is increasing. And I don't think it's just going to be that roughly a million-dollar stimulus to a future ombudsman, I think a month, but that stimulation will also be what's going on in the country. To advocate for those people who were due, I could say the neoliberalism of most Slovenian society and most of Slovenia's political space have been pushed aside and are also increasingly pushed aside. The requests coming to the parliamentary groups, which we are trying to resolve as far as possible within the framework of work and our competences, are likely to rain more heavily on the Ombudsman's address. I hope that the answers will be different from those sent by the former Ombudsman, who asked the question posed to him by the Ministry. When he received a reply from the Ministry, he shortened that reply, changed the opening and closing sentence and sent this as a response to his office, which is not actually that small, and is not so small and is not actually so poorly occupied. I hope that Mr Hanžek will take his job seriously. I hope that it will not be interrupted by political pressure from this side or from that side, that it will be independent, that it will be strict, that it will be consistent, and because we believe that it will be, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. I give my word to my colleague, Lojzet Peterlet, and he will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. He will be followed by a colleague, Jožef Školč, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. Finally, on behalf of the Young Slovenia Party or its parliamentary group, Mr Diaci. Mr. Peterle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members, a respected candidate for this important social function. Our Group of Members took note of the candidate's views. Having not seen any broad choice between the other large number of candidates, he believes that the candidate is suitable, and that it is crucial, which is based on our parliamentary group's opinion or decision, its commitment to more justice in this country, which lacks the sense of justice. We have the impression that the candidate does not want to survive the mandate in the spirit of the mailbox, but that he also wants innovation in this area, is said to have a different way of working, as we know it so far, to influence people's ability to come to justice more easily. From my own multi-mandatory parliamentary experience from sent offices, I can say that most of the sentences of people who come to the office begin "Mr. Member, help me to justice because I have been wronged". My statistics show that more than three-quarters of visits to parliamentary offices are intended not only to help people from injustice to justice, but people want an MP or the Ombudsman to protect them from their own country. Which is unfortunate information for democracy, even though it is young in Slovenia. People talk a lot about how, I mean, they don't even talk about injustice, they talk about bonton, they talk about culture. The mayor of a lower municipality wrote to the Minister of Agriculture. He hasn't received an answer to an official request in three years. He wasn't even, I'd say, an ordinary citizen. But also this ordinary citizen or a small person, as they like to say, has dignity, and not only because of dignity, but because of some basic manners he should be given an answer to his role. But I speak perfectly for the mayor because it was for the needs of the entire congregation. For three years there was just no phone, no fax, no letters, no e-mail, let's just say. So one basic culture, one basic manner, must be established in this country, so that we can talk more easily about implementation or the sense of justice. I was also paying attention to this aspect of the candidate's views when he said, "I will try to get people to at least answer first," then, of course, there is the content of what will be answered. It also seems important to us that the candidate has talked about priorities. We know that the previous guardian worked hard and sent extensive reports here - I think it took two years to get it on the agenda at all, but when you get a few hundred pages, of course you're desperate to read it all. From the new guardian, however he writes, we expect him to be able to set matters straight into some priorities and speak with his moral authority, because others hardly have what he thinks is the key to justice in this country. And these priorities are quite something. As a group of Members, we will support Mr Hanžk as a candidate. I must say that it is nice or, as I would say, promising that his position also works so that he does not feel that there is a prerequisite for the performance of this function of silver Mercedes and national security. Maybe it's better for the guardian to protect people just like that. We also see in this a fact that can bring this function closer to people. Only if it's close to people can we count on success. There's something else I'd like to say at the end. I would not, and it would not be good, and it would not be useful if the Ombudsman were left alone to be elected today and then six times would be ordered, perhaps depending on the will of the majority, to consider the reports. I would like the guardian myself several times in this house, even during the year when he will or would run into a problem that he thinks needs some broader support or at least treatment in a public space whose parliament is an essential part. So, I would like not only to see him active or taken, but also to see Parliament's key issues of justice or injustice with a little more attention in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. I invite my colleague, Jožef Školč, to the speaker's stage, to present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. At the same time, I am taking advantage of my colleague Peterlet's performance as a reason for the information that we may be considering the Ombudsman's regular report at the next meeting. Please, Comrade Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	Dear President, a respected candidate for the Ombudsman! We have found ourselves in a situation which, I will say, is very painful for both the National Assembly and those who expect, let's say, the services of the Ombudsman. Why this occurred is a long and well - known story. If I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, I must say that we would also be willing to support someone else who would be in this Parliament today. This does not mean that today, above all, it is not meaningful to say good words and a desire to travel to you, for a job that is, I will say, very hard. It has great expectations, not just that in the National Assembly, where it is expected that the Ombudsman is saving things that the law does not actually allow him. The guardian is - if I may be allowed, some parable that should not be offensive - is some kind of "dog that barks but doesn't bite". He has virtually no authority to correct those injustices that can be evident, at the same time being "numbered" in various offices in a way that all have clean hands, collars, and Mr Jelinčič would say, also a tie. I believe that the discussion of the Ombudsman at some point is also necessary as a discussion of the law which gives the Ombudsman the opportunity and which restricts them in particular. You will in particular be left with the power of the public word. That seems to me to be the argument for supporting your candidacy. You will find yourself in a situation where you are completely powerless and with skill, we can say, with beans, we can say with other arguments you will be able to draw attention to things that need to be moved. However, I believe that it is the duty of the National Assembly to expect, in fact, from all those who are running for any public office, that they have basic human rights rights. I am among those who believe that in the 1980s they have established a nation, not only in the way of these 1000-year-old dreams about the country, but that the nation as a country has actually established itself through human rights conflicts, but rather to discuss the abolition of Article 133 and to discuss those issues related to Kosovo's issues and human rights violations in Kosovo, not least with the issues of the Quartet in Slovenia, not to mention. This has also resulted later in the fact that we have in the constitution, in fact, as one rare country, summed up all these human rights. From this point of view, I'm going to say, paradoxically, we haven't been able to get to the fact that this office has been fully occupied for six months. I wish you success in your work and, let it not sound unreasonable again, as few requests as possible, because the role, including parliament and others, is that the request at this office is as low as possible. I will personally support you not only for rational reasons but also for sentimental reasons in the late 1980s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague Joseph Scholch. I invite my colleague Diacija to present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. He will be the last to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, colleague Ivan Kebric. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Honorable assembly, distinguished president, distinguished candidate, Mr. Hanžek! We are pleased in the Party of Young Slovenia that a candidate is proposed for the Ombudsman, who is not burdened by politics and at the same time a person for whom there is a great consensus between the parties. I'm very happy about that myself. Mr Hanžek is a representative of civil society, a sociologist who is as important to preventing human rights violations as raising awareness of their rights. As such, it offers an alternative. His non-participating programme is one of the conditions which, according to the Young Slovenia Party, a candidate for the Ombudsman must fulfil. At the same time, this is also evidence of a great consensus in the National Assembly. At the same time, Mr Hanžek fulfils the fundamental condition, and this is also in the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party for understanding and feeling human rights. That is why we thought he was a suitable candidate and we will also support him in the vote. We hope that with convincing, not just the required majority will be elected. At the same time, I must point out that the other names that we have proposed to Mr Kučan meet these criteria, but we believe that Mr Matjaž Hanžek is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Mr Kebrich will present the views of the DeSUS Group. We will also conclude the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. I ask Members and Members of Parliament whether they want a word. Please, Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we believe that it is indeed a time for our country to have a guardian of human rights. We regret that no candidate has been elected in previous votes. However, we welcome the proposal made by the President of the country, who proposes this time to us a non-party candidate, whom we are confident of, in terms of his quality, qualifications and also as a person, to be able to carry out a very responsible, useful and necessary function for all citizens. That is why we have concluded in our Group of Members that we will unitedly support Mr Matjaž Hanžk's candidacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. I have not received written statements from Members and Members, so I am limiting the debate to five minutes. The first one was signed up by a colleague of Partljič. My friend Partich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Dear colleagues, respected writing colleague Matjaž Hanžek! I answered, although on behalf of the Group of Members, my colleague, Školč, said what was necessary. But there's something else I'd like to say here. Although I thought, say, the proposal for Mrs Bebler's, which we did not vote on the last time, was also very thoughtful, and, as you know, I also fought for her because I did not count her in the sphere of politicians who couldn't do anything else. After all, she was not a member of the National Assembly. The current election of Mr President of the State seems very useful to me. I think it's great that someone who's a lot different than us is coming, even if it comes from a sweater or a shirt, I'm not going to replicate, of course, because I have no right to see it coming from someone who was in his shirt alone. But I think this world when we asked in politics who it was. Until I came into the world of politics, I knew Matjaž Hanžk very well. Now among my colleagues, including others in the National Assembly, I suddenly noticed that people were asking me who it was. What seems to me to be familiar with each other seems to us to be one world that seems normal to us, and I think it's really great to have someone coming between us who looks different, who doesn't know him and who comes from another sphere. However, those who were interested in human rights and those who took the stand were able to find Hanžka in the early years, before those mentioned by colleague Školč, and even in the 1980s, when this was very necessary. It is our specialty, of course, that we have appointed the Interior Minister as the Ombudsman of Human Rights. However, it would not seem wrong for me to ever appoint a human rights guardian after the term of office as an internal minister. What we are all stressing today may seem to me to be one of the entire diseases of the Slovenes, and perhaps the guardian could help her to resolve it sometime. The fact that all Slovenians compete with each other, to whom the greater injustice has occurred, as has already been said today. People come to me, too, just by what kind of injustice has happened to them. This is where we pass the laws of guilt. I think that for one nation, it is not healthy for the health of one nation if it is our first priority to show each other what kind of injustice has happened to us. I don't know what kind of power you're going to have, but I expect you, with your public performance, that people won't know that they're going to go to another bureaucrat, but that you'll be with what I know you in life, even once as an avant-garde poet. And I think it's nice for a man like that to appear outside the political scene of Slovenia. That perhaps you will be able to give people satisfaction in some other way, not only by sending them forward, but in fact to help change one spiritual image of the Slovenian people. From that point of view, I thought your candidacy was thoughtful. I think there have been other honourable candidates who have already advocated human rights, but I think it is right that these are not deferred politicians and that they are a fresh face. That's what I'd say when we warn you to be strict with institutions and a little doubt. A man told me, too, that friend of yours you're defending seems a little "weird." It seems to me that more is talking about us who are different people from us who seem strange or strange. I think it's great that one of these people shows up. But when we warn you to be a steel man, a strong man, or as Levstik has already said, I thought that you should be also up to this Parliament, even to this Parliament. Here people in very fine ties and white shirts sometimes do not show dignity to Parliament and to ourselves. In short, I wish you a calm sea and a good wind at your new work, and I will gladly support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Comrade Partich. My friend Kangler wants a word. I caution others not to disturb the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished candidate. I've decided to say a few words. I was personally surprised by the president's proposal to propose Mr Hanžko Matjaž as the Ombudsman. Why? In recent times, we can see that our President of State has often changed the criteria for different functions in this country. If I recall when it came to representatives of the Constitutional Judges. In the previous term, he could not be elected as a Constitutional Judge, a person who was a member of one of the parliamentary parties. After that, something quickly happened, we elected a constitutional judge who was the head of one of the parliamentary parties. Today we can read in the President's proposal and also in the report of the Elections and Appointments Commission, which is why he decided to propose to the Ombudsman, Matjaž Hanžka, as an extremely non-party candidate, as an extremely non-party candidate, who will receive broad political support in this national assembly. At least that's what the representatives of the parliamentary groups have announced. I am asked what the criteria for a candidate for the Ombudsman are. I must admit that I met the distinguished candidate Hanžek Matjaž this year at the Bob-Bob event, which is being hosted by the evening newspaper. I ask you how many of you are here today, sitting in the hall you met earlier. They say, and the President of the country has repeatedly stated that the Ombudsman must have broad support for civil society. I wonder what this support is for Mr Hanžek Matjaž, who has applied for the invitation to tender himself. But which one of the civil society supports him? Don't let anyone blame me, too, my colleague, Mr Mag. Bergauer has decided to run for human rights. Look, he collected this kind of support from civil society, and nothing helped the president. Over 110,000 citizens participating in various civil society companies. I don't have anything on Mr. Hanzko personally. However, it would be worthy of respect for Mr Hanžek to present himself to the Group of Members, so that, on the basis of his presentation to the Group of Members, we can decide whether or not to support him. That is why I have also decided that today I will not support Mr Hanžek Matjaž, especially for the reason that I feel obliged as a Member, and that those who today run for this function, as well as other functions who want the wider support of parliamentary democracy and parliamentary parties, will also present their views, their knowledge and their vision of this institution to us Members. I was very glad that Mr. Hanžek was chosen to be 'bobob of the year [[Bobo bob]] "when he said, 'we have someone rich because he is a member of a political party; on the other hand, people work all day for change'. I will be even happier today if colleague Hanžek is elected and joins this caravan of rich people, which he considers to be a political party, if you're not rich, but you're poor. And I will be very happy that, as a functionary himself, as the fourth branch of power in this country will feel what it is like to work in politics, with politics, and also with some other institutions and segments in this country. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite you to the word Did I miss anyone? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] I invite you to address the National Assembly at the main stage if that's what you want. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, candidate for the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Hello! I salute you all here! I wasn't getting ready because I was told earlier that I didn't have a word here. Now I've got it, so I'd like to explain some misunderstandings or misunderstandings. I will come up with just a few lines that I agree with, or calls that have been made here, that the Ombudsman must be independent of politics or that he must protect people from his own country. That's about my point of view, so I decided to propose for myself. I wanted to demonstrate with all my actions what I wanted to do. This means that I did not get - the least problem would be getting me a lot of signatures, a lot of customers and so on, which would suggest me - I did demonstrate that I was here alone, I am responsible for my candidacy. I only spoke within my family, who will receive it. I didn't offer myself to any of the clients. Every client, two of them invited me, I came and I said. I was hoping some people knew. Now you've talked a lot about beans, and that sentence, which I thought was demagogos, which is why I won, I didn't even compete, but it's a sentence from two pages of a long interview. This phrase is also a bit demagogic for himself, so he also won to understand. I also said a lot about human rights there. This was published last March in the Evening. I had this in addition 14 days ago, in Sunday briefly, the main points of what I mean. I had a controversy at the beginning of the year about human rights, and I had a diary in December, when I was also on one, three, four points. I have written, at least I think that some 50 articles in the last five years, which do not relate directly, speak of human rights, but of areas that the Ombudsman must also protect. That's why I decided, because I felt like I was going to all the customers or not going to any of them, but it was normal to go to no one, maybe I made a mistake. Some customers have taken this as a good thing, with some customers. I'm sorry. Maybe there's only one thing I could say that, since my vision of the guardian that has appeared many times, I can't explain the whole concept right now, at least one thing, I promise to stick to it. When a complaint comes from anyone, a request or anything, the Bureau will take it seriously. I believe there are many people - and those who are most violating the rights - who can't even write a request. I'm afraid such requests seem a little strange, a little crazy and take each other seriously. First of all, I'm gonna start a job to help people who can't write complaints write a complaint to the guardian. And then the guardian will, as in large cases, if he has to continue to give to other state institutions to rescue, he or she will be following to the stage to which this report occurred. When he receives the letter, the Ombudsman, the office, will write down immediately that we have received the letter and will take it seriously. He will accompany him to a final such or otherwise resolution. I'd like to apologize to people in advance. I don't think I'm gonna be able to solve all the things, not even my office. I'd like to apologize in advance to all those who can't be dealt with. I would like to thank all those who have promised me support and those who will give it to me. I promise you will see me very often here, at least in two functions. Once I come to you for help, the second I come to fight you. I can't, I can't promise, because I'd lie about doing this. I'll work. Because from the moment I decided to do so, I decided to do so, and I had my own principled views, because no one would believe them if it were any different. But I would also like to apologize to my friend Victory Jelinčič or explain why I came here. It's not an insult, I've been this way my whole life, and that's what I've been doing, and that's what I've been doing. If you took it as an insult, but I don't believe so, I apologize. One of human rights is also a different lifestyle. I spoke twice in the United Nations in exactly the same dress. Once before a good decade in Geneva. Mr Janša remembers at least roughly those times at the United Nations meeting on human rights violations. Second, about a year and a half ago, there were many such speakers in the United Nations in New York, where Kofi Annan was also present. It's like a joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Hanzek. We appreciate your honesty. I ask if anyone else will appear before the vote. I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate. I put to the vote a motion for a decree on the election of the Ombudsman, which reads: "Elect Matjaž Hanžek as the Ombudsman for a period of six years." I am opening a debate on the proposed decision. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants a word, I'm closing the debate. Before voting, I would like to point out to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman, a candidate for the Ombudsman will be elected if two-thirds of all members of the National Assembly vote for him, i.e. 60 Members and Members or more. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote. There are 82 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 73 colleagues and colleagues voted for the Ombudsman and 3 opposed him. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against three.]] Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, I ask you to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 3. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE OFFICER OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Anton Anderlic. Please, everyone, let us now focus on this point. Does the proposer's representative want a word? My friend Anderlich wants a word. Please, for peace in the hall. Mr Hanžek, the Ombudsman, colleagues and colleagues you wish to congratulate, please do so in the lobby of the Chamber. The third item of the agenda is under consideration here. Please, Mr. Guardian. My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	On behalf of the Group of Members, I give an introductory explanation why we believe that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be amended and supplemented in two parts, which are only part of the amendments. We want to allow for faster adoption of the budget, adoption in a way similar to that in similar countries, with a similar democratic tradition. For we have been in the National Assembly for almost six years and have been preparing a proposal for comprehensive changes to the Rules of Procedure or a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. Since this work is not moving quickly, however, we need to amend the rules of procedure of the National Assembly so that the National Assembly can adopt the budget in a more rapid manner. It is undeniable that, above all, this year the situation is such that the government was formed so much before the end of last year and could not draw up a budget. If we want the state to carry out all the tasks entrusted to it and to provide financial resources to this end, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure so that the deadlines and modalities for adopting the Rules of Procedure are adapted to these needs. In this Rules of Procedure, we would like in particular to strengthen our responsibility to make changes to the budget. Anyone who wants to change -- I'm talking about Members or sent groups -- will have to specify exactly where he is changing from, where he is taking from and where he is taking from and where he is giving it, so that the budget will be balanced or aligned with the starting points as it is prepared for each budget. We believe that some solutions are such that they actually allow for faster treatment. Since the initial proposal, we have prepared some amendments ourselves, and we support some of them, which have been tabled by the government or by other Members. Thus, it is a novelty from that basic proposal that, in our proposal, it will also be possible to invest by the Members of the amendment in the first reading, and then at a later stage, after the consideration of the coordinated budget, of the supplementary budget, only in a larger group, i.e. with a certain quorum or in the home working body. We believe that this responsibility is also necessary by Members so that we do not face, as we have in recent years, thousands of amendments that have changed the basis and the priorities themselves in the budget. But in the end it always happened that only the rare amendments were accepted, because they could not be accepted. Of course, it is difficult for each Member to see the problem in light, as the Government sees it, which is responsible for the implementation of programmes in all areas. That is why we believe that this is a qualitative shift, that it will, however, be if there are changes - and I believe that - through complementing or amendments, that they will be one that can also be incorporated into the updated budget later on. There have also been several discussions in the recent period on how to regulate the issue of supervisors in the Rules of Procedure. We have therefore also supported the proposal to extend these amendments by amending Article 141 of the existing Rules of Procedure. This is envisaged in Article A1 where a third of the members of the supervisory working body should be able to propose, request, expect answers, documents and other matters related to the work of the two supervisory working bodies, namely, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances and, of course, the Commission on Security and Information Services. In the end, I think we have come up with a proposal that could also satisfy those who have tied this up as a condition for participation in these working bodies or the management of some other working bodies. I propose that the Rules of Procedure be amended and supplemented by a rapid procedure. I think that's what the committee thinks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Anderlich, one of the proponents of the proposal. The draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure were discussed by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At its second regular session, the Rules of Procedure Commission considered amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure tabled by Mr Anderlič, Mr Potrč, Mr Podobnik and Mr Kebric, and replaced the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which had already been tabled by the same motioners. In the general debate, most advocated a reduction in the adoption process of the State budget. The opposition to the revision of the Rules of Procedure was explicitly stated only by the representative of the Slovenian national party, Mr Pec. The comments were made mainly by Members and Members on the deadlines, on the debates, on the presentation of the opinions of individual groups of Members and on the proposed right to make amendments by Members. In addition to the changes in the adoption of the budget, the swift procedure has also allowed amendments to be made to the entire Rules of Procedure, according to all the other articles. Thus, an amendment to the 141st article was tabled by the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group of Members. [[the revision of this amendment has now been tabled in the review]] , and two amendments tabled by Mr Borut Pahor. All three amendments govern the possibility that a third of the members may request data and individual documents belonging to the two supervisory bodies of the national assembly. The Commission has supported both the basic amendment of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia as an amendment to this amendment tabled by Mr Anderlič and the right of claim is bound by it to legality. Mr Pahor's amendment, however, left them irrelevant. I would also like to point out that Mr Anderlich's amendment to the amendment has also been corrected and has been tabled as an amendment to the review, an integral part of the review of the amendments tabled. However, Mr Pahor's amendment has, of course, become irrelevant by adopting the amendments mentioned above. The report shall indicate which amendments the Commission supports and which they do not. We propose that the proposal be considered and adopted together with the amendments supported by the Commission, following a rapid procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Commission. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[I don't see anyone.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, a colleague of Saša Peca asked for it. Sašo Peče will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. A colleague of Rudolf Petan will perform on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Your Honor! At last year's elections or elections for the term of the National Assembly, we have, I believe, all of us have declared in our faith that we will be able to carry out our tasks or that we will be able to carry out what we have set out in our programme, as we have said to potential and future voters. Today, for example, the ruling structure, namely liberal democracy, the unified list, DeSUS and the Slovenian People's Party and Slovenian Christian Democrats, are trying to lead us to steal that last communication option, if not another one. Unfortunately, what has been predicted is that this government will not work, let's say, negatively only in the government field, but will transfer its entire operation to this national assembly. Even though it works with such a large majority, it demolishes and walks the government, throughout this country, it wants to pass it on to us in this national assembly. If we look at the changes that the above-mentioned proponents offer, we see that, in essence, they all refer to finding the on-call culprit who is supposed to appear voluntarily for the incompetence of the finance minister, the government, because we are basically talking about the budgetary part of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No, in the Slovenian national party, we are not prepared to be this on-call culprit and to accept the blame for why the budget was late adopted. No, that's the minister's job. Let the Minister do, prepare, coordinate with the mandate-holder in a timely manner, and then do the matter as he pleases. Let them not seek fault in this national assembly, to which, as an opposition Member, I can say, we have not been invited in any stage of preparation, but here you are trying to shorten our hands, on behalf of the fact that this is absolutely necessary. Of course, the proponents are trying to make the rules of procedure, at least in the area of the budget, let's say, complement it - they say to rationalise. Yes, to rationalise in the sense that Members could no longer normally carry out their activities, their activities, such as making amendments, which is one of the fundamental rights, in our view, a Member. Don't cut this out for us. You have the opportunity in this national council to do every single thing in this country, you have the right opportunity to change anything. But don't take this last one away from us, let's say this weapon that we're trying to present our ideas with -- that's speech. And another, for example, is an element or a class of changes made by social democrats about control bodies or information acquisitions. The Slovenian national party has put into consideration in Kwiaz, put to the vote a proposal on how they should work, how they should be composed of both supervisory functions. We feel that control cannot be exercised by someone — or better: no one can control himself. That's bad control. We are convinced that in the supervisory committees on the intelligence security service and on public finances, the opposition should play a leading role and the role of the majority. In short, she could perform her function normally. Given that we do not withdraw from this, we will not agree to their proposals either - that is one third of Members can apply for permission. We don't believe in the good purpose of these amendments. If you have anything to do with this national assembly trying at least in its control function - that is, in these two working bodies - to carry out, i.e. the opposition to carry out its tasks, then support the proposals of the Slovenian National Party, which give us the majority. Given that we do not intend to cooperate with or agree with these amendments to the Rules of Procedure today, that is, the act giving us rights, duties and obligations, we will not participate or agree with them, nor will we participate in any amendment. In the name of the Slovenian National Parties, I predict that we will leave or leave the Chamber at this point, because we think it is just a little funny that, in addition to the power you have, you take our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, Comrade Sašo Peče announced obstruction at this point. My colleague, Rudolf Petan, will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Delak, DeSUS's position and colleague Štemberger, the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. Please, Comrade Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to begin with Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which does not change, which states: "The rules of procedure are governed by the organisation and manner of the work of the National Assembly and the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members." I would stress the rights and duties of Members and Members. What I mean is, I'll explain it a little later. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are a kind of small constitution of the National Assembly and a mirror of democracy. Indeed, in countries with a developed democratic system, the rules of procedure do not change in such a way, not very often, but the relationship between the ruling majority, which is necessary, and the opposition, which is also necessary, is well known. Without the good opposition that must carry out its task, democracy cannot be good, or the development of democracy cannot be as we could have imagined. That's why things are well defined and there's no telling what it is, which side someone belongs to, just like we have this case with us. However, if this rules of procedure - and let's say in, our rules of procedure are well written, the words are beautifully written, also binding is very beautiful, but eventually such a book or such a law must also come into an appropriate environment. If the environment is not appropriate, then this beautiful book and these beautiful words that are written there will in fact remain only with a nice cover, and there is certainly no content. And we're talking about content, maybe less for a cover. The proposal before us deals with two areas, namely the change in the budgetary procedure of the State and, of course, the control over the conduct of the State, that is to say over the consumption of finance and the security and intelligence services. We know that in the developed countries, in fact, there is only control of those who have shown democracy, and this is financial control, military control and, of course, intelligence services. And it is in this proposal that we are facing two of these three areas. And if I start with the budget. The budget is certainly the most important act, not only of every government and parliament, but also of every country. After all, the budget makes it possible for the state to function. The adoption of the budget is not like the adoption of any other act of law, as we know that Parliament is the legislative authority. We need to be aware that when we push the keys to the budget, we need to be aware that the budget amounts to 600,000 tolars per capita of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, every change we accept, every time we press, we must be aware that this influences us somehow with 600,000 tolars on every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this does not mean that we take or give it directly to him, but that is how we must take it. That means, that's the amount of funds. It is therefore important that the budget be thoroughly reconsidered, shaken, checked, reviewed and, of course, made proposals for correction, if necessary. After all, the government does not rule only the majority, but it rules all citizens of one country, in this case the Republic of Slovenia. If we look at how we have adopted the budget so far, we have to admit that there have been many, many, many times, but not exclusively, things that have been irrational, which have been superfluous, which has actually led to the adoption of a budget some day later. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party we support efforts to rationalise the adoption of the State budget, but we must be clear on something: if the budget was late so far, it was not only because the debate in the National Assembly was perhaps too long, but if we had adopted the budget in September and we had it in the State Assembly only in March or April, then it certainly was not the debate in the National Assembly, but it was also the fault elsewhere. Also, the senseless investment of so many amendments is true. However, it must also be acknowledged that, on the obvious, only something has been accepted, this is the thing of the one who has the majority and has only supported what came from the same side, which could otherwise have been arranged differently, but this is not a strong argument against such changes. As I said, the urgency of this revision of the Rules of Procedure is good and we support it, but we think that sometimes the solutions are a little bit, I would say, flawed or a hundred percent missed the purpose. And if you'll allow me, I've prepared a review of what it means after the current rules of procedure, according to the proposal of the proposers and according to the proposal we have prepared in the SDS; that is, what can be strictly defined by day. According to the current rules of procedure, 57 days have passed before the government starts to define itself until the amendments. Following a new proposal, this would be 40 days, following a proposal made by the Social Democratic Party, which would be 45 days. Of course, from here on, Parliament no longer has that role, because as long as the government is defined to the amendments, we will not be able to influence it now. And with the correction we received today on the table, where the 30-day deadline in Article 218 is also deleted, it is said, in Article 5 of this proposal, that will still remain essentially unknown and it is not necessary at all to save. The most obvious thing about this proposal is that this proposal takes a Member as an individual of fundamental rights and duties, which are also defined in Article 1. That is why I also cited Article 1, the exercise of the rights and duties that a Member should have. This is because he is aware of the proposals coming to the National Assembly to discuss them, to have his opinion, to make corrections and to give his consent or, if necessary, to reject them. Indeed, there are weaknesses in this proposal - yes; firstly, there is no general debate, it is said that Members are not well aware of this proposal; Members cannot table amendments, they can invest in the first part of the Group, after the final reading, I will appoint the final draft budget, and not even the members of the Group are those who could propose amendments. I'd rather call it repairs. In addition, the working bodies under this proposal do not have an overall review of the area covered by this proposal. Indeed, when working bodies meet, others can also discuss the budget. And since we know that we have areas covered by individual working bodies, it is said that another working body can prepare an amendment for the field of work, which is something the other working body does not know about. That's what you're saying. He doesn't have a background check. And that is the weakness of this proposal. As I have already said, in the SDS we have prepared a certain correction to go in the direction of rationality, greater transparency, without significantly affecting the extension of the deadline. This is a five-day extension, which would make it essential to improve transparency and, of course, to better inform Members. For we propose that a briefing be made, since the President of the National Assembly has made public or has sent a proposal to the Members not only for five days, but for 10 days; this is for the reason that I have mentioned it. It's such a big deal. And, of course, that we could also call on interested working bodies who could address the budget when the amendments were known. This is said to have an overall review of the finances and, of course, their consumption, which is most important. For this correction, we would really spend 5 days more, instead of 40 45, compared to the current 57 days, but if we are thinking that it is a quarter of a gross national product at the annual level or if you want to compare 600,000 tolls to each citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, then probably even those 5 days would not be so bad to miss, but it could contribute significantly to the quality and content of this work. Our basic idea was to extend these 5 days of consideration in the National Assembly, which would make it clear that working bodies could discuss the full budget and, of course, that they would have time to get to know a little longer. Actually, in five days to get to know such abundant material, it's a little difficult, we have to admit that. And in this respect, we have tabled amendments. With individual amendments, we will also try to give a brief explanation so that the matter will be clearer as we thought it would be. However, we are sure that this would make a significant contribution to the purpose of the applicants. We are sure that the proponents had a good purpose, but the solutions were always not the happiest, so we tried to fix it. The second part of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure speaks of supervision, namely financial supervision and supervision of security and intelligence services. This is a very, I'll say, problematic area, but if it's well arranged, things are the way we all probably want them, and we'd like them. These solutions are somehow within the meaning of the agreements - I will say - most of the parliamentary groups and these solutions are systemic and also regulate the situation where there is no control, no functioning of control, in Parliament so much depends on the results of the elections. And we think that this is a good solution, and that is why, of course, we support it. With regard to the whole change, I would say the following - to conclude; the purpose is certainly good, the great solution is good. We are convinced, however, that the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party would significantly improve this proposal, as well as rationalise it and make it more transparent. But I think that's exactly what we all want and what's the point of our work. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. I give the floor to my colleague Delak, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable National Assembly! In our Group of Members, there is a need to amend the Rules of Procedure in any way. So we need to change the rules of procedure. Indeed, the practice so far shows that the existing rules of procedure do not allow for rational business. We are advocating in some way for - which may seem strange to anyone - some industrial approach: at the end of the day, a meeting of the National Assembly must be a result. Of course, it's not so many pieces of product, I don't know what else, but it's some conclusion, some law, some position. Of course, the current practice shows that this has often not been the case because the rules of procedure allowed some to abuse the principles of the Rules of Procedure. And one more thing. How is this arranged in other countries? I don't suppose anyone will argue that if a Member has not the right to perform ten times and to repeat ten times the same thing, it is nothing new to say that it is a barrier to democracy, that it is not democratic. In other parliaments, it is very clear how these matters are going. Very clear. And that is why we do not agree, of course, with those who say that, as long as a Member is not able to hold an open debate that this is somehow undemocratic. The Member must be able to say in that short time all the things concerning the agenda or the item on the agenda. For the sake of not being a debt, I say here; our Group of Members will support all those amendments aimed at rationalising the work of the National Assembly. However, it will not, of course, support those amendments that do not have this objective; of course, with respect for democratic standards. I reiterate this because someone will attack me, where democracy is now: in compliance with democratic standards. For this reason, in this particular case, we will support all those amendments concerning the short-term adoption of the budget, but we will not support those amendments concerning the rights of 1/3 Members. It seems to us somehow that it is wrong to subject the changes to the rules of procedure to demands or to blackmail, even if you wish, some specific parliamentary group. Because, of course, if we agree to do so, then another parliamentary group will, after a while, demand that something be changed again, because the session will assume that it is not in the best interest. For this reason, I repeat: we will support that part of the budget changes, not of course those other provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Delak. At the same time, I give the floor to my colleague Štemberger to present the views of the parliamentary group in the Party of Youth Slovenia. I ask those who read the daily news to do so discreetly and thus do not show a bad attitude toward the speakers who communicate their views. My friend Stemberger is going to do it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The Constitution grants Parliamentary autonomy to the Parliamentary Assembly on the basis of which the National Assembly itself regulates its work and business, as well as the adoption of the State budget. In the youth party, we agree that the procedures for adopting the budget need to be regulated in a way that will enable the national assembly to work rationally and efficiently and thereby adopt a timely budget that will allow for the smooth financing of the state. However, the budget must be a matter of consideration and the fullest consent of all Members. To note that the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the adoption of the state budget tabled by members of the coalition, limit the constitutional right of Members to not only decide as representatives of all people but also participate in the preparation of proposals. It therefore seems unacceptable for us to lose the possibility of making amendments to the draft budget on behalf of rationality. Such an arrangement, contained in the proposal already mentioned, lowers democratic standards and constitutes a radical intervention in the regulation so far. In our desire to work constructively in the Party of Youth Slovenia, we support the amendments of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party to Article 3 as well as Article 7. The first amendment assures Members that, in their first reading, the Government proposes to the Government its vision of the draft budget; the second allows for direct investment and voting on individual amendments supported by the parliamentary group; as it allows all four opposition parties to make direct amendments. These two amendments are a minimum amendment to the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and will not have a significant impact on the rate of adoption of the budget, which we also want to adopt as soon as possible, as we are aware of the problems arising from temporary funding - for example, in school they do not have funds or paper, the work of kindergarteners in many social and development projects is at risk that we are not even talking about the normal work of the government. At the same time, we take this solution as an extraordinary and temporary and not as a basic starting point for the establishment of procedures in the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I ask whether any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views before the general debate of Members and Members. I find no, and I give my word to the Members and Members. Only colleague Jerovšek will have this opportunity to speak without a time limit, the other discussants will have a limit of five minutes. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said by the representative of our Group of Members, we agree with the rationalisation of the procedures for adopting the budget and also with the articles allowing some control of the authorities in this country. What is accepted by the amendment to Article 141 is not what would be sufficient for this country and for the control of power in that country, but it has proved to be a compromise, a compromise at some very low level to allow control in that country. Therefore, I regret that we have also heard from the speakers that there are some groups being blackmailed in Parliament, and we have even heard a speech yesterday about the ultimatums. Respected colleagues and colleagues, operational and parliamentary supervision, partly effective control of power in this country - this country needs this control more than the Sahara of Water. Indeed, without these minimum instruments, experience shows us that power and the current coalition, I must say an ugly term, a vampir, and without it will exercise its authority in a very brutal way. However, as I have said, this is something minimal and I welcome, but I personally doubt that it will allow this minimum effective control and that there is a sincere desire to do so and that the forces in this House have genuinely united behind this compromise. In fact, yesterday's vote on the amendment of the agenda is actually a silent agreement for confidence in the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor. This non-trust was voted out, and we know why - not because of Mr Pahor's person, but because of his efforts at some minimum level of compromise in this house. This distrust, of course, has serious consequences and suggests that the largest customer will try to play the minimum that has been agreed on with the help of its satellites. If I move on to that part of the Rules of Procedure relating to the adoption of the budget of the State. I agree that the current solution has been too long to sometimes hamper the needs of the country in this area. However, I am disappointed that this sincere will and also, in fact, the consensus of most of the parliamentary groups has already been turned into an abuse of this agreement on the reduction of the budget adoption process. In fact, abuse in the sense of limiting the possibility of Members having an impact on the adoption of the State budget and of influencing the executive power in order to constitute a state-owned statement of State needs, the burdens of people on the ground who express their will through Members. The fact that it is today in 216th article of the proposed law states that only parliamentary groups can propose amendments to the budget by working bodies is, in my opinion, an attack on the Parliamentary Institute. This is actually a reduction of the Member's status to the level of the regime's servant. In the case of a coalition Member, this conversion of a Member to a Member of the regime is complete. In the case of the opposition Member, however, he takes a degree of individuality and I firmly believe that, in this way, the opposition Members have no longer in fact had the opportunity to point out with any "any" amendment the illogicality of the proposed budget document; in this sense, even in the event of the worst illogicality, and in the event that in some area the draft budget is completely conflicted with the interests of the State, of some environment, of some source, that opposition Members might have the tools to point out and succeed in doing so. As this is a limitation of the rights of Members and the Institute of Members, I firmly believe that this is contrary to Article 82 of the Constitution, which states that Members are not bound by any instructions. However, if amendments can only be tabled as a parliamentary group, it is clear that the head of the parliamentary group has the opportunity to reject a Member's opinion, a specific proposal from the Member, because this is being coordinated. And I firmly believe that such a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will hold the Constitutional Court back and that this will not be possible to penetrate. But maybe that's what this year's purpose is. The current government does not need a budget, certainly. Where all the rules fall, there is no need for a budget. For the sake of governance, it may be easier, even if it were a serious interest, to save a little more, and I think there is no real interest in adopting a budget by the end of the year in the country. We've had cases like this before. And I think that the proponents of such changes, which conflict with the solutions in the constitution, should be aware that in such a case this is the opposite. The second purpose of this is that, as we see now, the general debate is closed. I think that, fellow Members and fellow Members, we should be aware of our responsibilities to be - not only entitled, but often defined to the actions and proposals of the executive branch. That's what you're giving up through this rule of procedure. The purpose of the executive power and the obvious coalition is clear through this: as little transparency as possible in the state budget, as little information as possible to the public, as little awareness as possible of where billions of the state budget go. And I assure you that in this way there will be billions of things that are now in Eles in recent years, such as many, in many areas, in education, for example - this will be constantly more. And the goal, in deciding how we will adopt the budget, intransparency of the state treasury, is - I think - to contend with the basic principles of parliamentaryism. The budgetary debate and the adoption of the budget is a central debate everywhere in the democratic world, a central document of Parliament and it is not possible to give it up. It is even worse, of course, that only one quarter of Members can submit amendments to the supplementary draft budget as proposed. It is clear here that the current coalition does not want opposition to exist in this country. In fact, the threshold for putting amendments on the budget above the threshold of the opposition is unheard of, is scandalous and, yes, yesterday Mr Anderlič said in the study that the opposition cannot now. With this - if you look at yourself - you have acknowledged that the opposition in this country is 22 Members and that with the proposal you intended to put it beyond the possible impact on "any" solution. Look. After all, as I said, I support the shortening of procedures. I'm in favour of no more three-part, three-phase procedure. I am aware of this; but not these classical institutions of parliamentaryism! Let us be aware that our democracy has not yet been strengthened by democracy, that corruption in the country is at an extremely high level, that it is growing, and that it does not provide instruments that will allow for self-determination. But, of course, like I said, I'm not surprised. You have a coalition contract and some publicist is -- just this week I read -- lucidly realized that the way you do it, and as you imagine it, it's not a coalition contract, it's a coalition constitution. You have a coalition constitution that is above the Constitution of the State. Of course, if you have been convinced that this is the key document, then - as this publicist finds out - you can gradually phase out all institutions of a democratic state. We know that the following proposal has also been tabled, which further radically reduces the rights and possibilities of democratic reception in Parliament, which will try to silence the total opposition in this House: but you will not end the opposition, you will end democracy. If this is your intention to have only a coalition constitution and this country no longer has a constitution and has a coalition constitution, then please. Once it was said that you were smart enough to be the smartest, it seems that this is the suggestion of that extravagant mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. For the discussion, two speakers were announced, in addition to the replica of Comrade Podobnik, for peace in the Chamber. Would that mean that you could have made a decision before the National Assembly? [[...]] Well, then this option goes away. We'll continue after one hour with the vote. Colleague Podobnik first has a replica and then in the order of colleagues Kerbrich and Kontič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, following the performance of my fellow Member Jerovška. You could say, "That's what the opposition says." Of course, at the same time, I would add, "But not just the average." You have to have arguments, you have to try, even when you're critical, because you have to be critical. You have to have an argument for your performance. And colleague Jerovšek, let me tell you here that in the introduction to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Anderlič has explicitly said that all the applicants support the amendment of your parliamentary group to Article 3, so that Members can also table amendments. That's what my colleague Anderlich said. I went to check when I heard your performance when you were so keen on that point. And even on the basis of the debate on the working body, we have sat down and supported the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups. That's the first one. Second. During the performance, Comrade Jerovšek mentioned the opinion of one of the publicists, who also criticised the coalition contract. Now I don't know which publicist it's supposed to be. [[Elevation from the bench.]] Thank you very much. Well, I was thinking of another record. I think it was in the Week of Mladina, where it said: "It is Miran Potrč who wants to shut the opposition's mouth most directly and gravely, and that he is the chief ideologist of changes to this Rules of Procedure." That's not true. That's not true! See, almost 95% of the amendments to this Rules of Procedure, as well as the comprehensive ones, have been proposed by a group of experts two years ago; and the Members of the four parliamentary parties have summarised them and added some additional provisions to them. We are prepared, in accordance with the procedure, to negotiate with you and find the best solution. And you've already convinced us with the MPs! And that's what we want to do. However, I would like to ask, Comrade Jerovska, because you said that he wanted the coalition or authority to exercise its authority brutally with these provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You've said the word "brutal" so brutally. Can you tell me in what article of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that are now on the agenda do you see this brutality? Where you see her - tell me, we'll sit down and we'll cut her down. If he's anywhere! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek was directly challenged. Will you respond? Please, Comrade Jerovšek. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Comrade John Squirrel! I'm glad that at least one of the parties came across a reflection of my thinking. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	As you can see, you run into a general echo when you speak, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	By the way, that's all I'm gonna do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	In fact, it is necessary to address solutions that are not acceptable. I said at the outset that I agree with the shortening of the procedure, and so I must, unfortunately, repeat the word 'brutal'. [[...]] It's meant to be written down. These are--I mean, I know this word is a little harsh, it's heavy, but it's plastic. It has to be plastic. Indeed, I am also referring to the envisaged further revision of the Rules of Procedure. We know that we have had a strong debate on this and that, for example, shortening the Parliamentary debate to take it to the minimum that it is a reduction of the classical institute. We know that they have different solutions in Europe, but I have already stressed this: through an open debate once held by all parliaments, there has been a solid democracy. And if you're going to close a solid democracy by closing the opposition's mouth, there will be no solid democracy in this country. And it's a brutal attack - so shortening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. It is precisely this dialogue between members of the coalition and the opposition that proves that there is no great brutality. Comrade Podobnik will respond kindly in this dialogue. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Mr President, the length of the debates of Members, which will be one of the important provisions of the comprehensive amendments to the Rules of Procedure, is not an integral part of this Rules of Procedure, which is now on the agenda. I therefore note that I have not received an answer to the specific question: where, in which provision of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure now exudes some brutality. I didn't get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	So, Comrade Jerovšek, we will not get this explanation, you will no longer apply to the word. That's why I give my word to my colleague Kebrich, then to Kontić and Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe, and I speak for myself, that it is necessary to amend the rules of procedure concerning one area, and this is the area of the adoption of the State budget. In doing so, I have a different opinion from my colleague Jerovšek that it would not be right to change what was essentially proposed - now it is an amendment. Why would each individual propose something purely local or according to his view to collect a certain circle, forgetting the constitution and his conscience that we Members are obliged to take care of the whole country and are responsible to all voters, not to a narrow circle. That someone would not think that I would deny the Members any right, because I would like to have it myself, but that Member, who has independently run and has been elected, will have all the right under our Rules of Procedure to represent the Group of Members and will be able to propose everything on his own. On the other hand, if we cannot unify ourselves in the parliamentary group to get at least a majority of the co-thinkers to make an amendment to the budget, then it is likely that, if most already in the parliamentary group say so, it is probably not right that this alone, as has been repeatedly used, is "solating". So much for the budget. The second part of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which is referred to or proposed to amend additional Article 1.a, is as follows. Look, if someone isn't satisfied with the election result, that's their problem, because they probably can't change voters, or replace them, even though they want to. Therefore, to propose amending the rules of procedure or replacing the required number so that you can propose something, but I find it inappropriate. Also perspective: if each policy option proposes changes to the Rules of Procedure as they will at a given time or within its mandate, where will we go? If we look just a little bit across the fence of our garden - that is to say, look a little abroad - and we will see in the neighbouring countries that they are changing, either that a party gets a majority - just as it thinks it is right, whether the opposition counts24 members or 44. It doesn't matter! On the other hand, it is not the weight of the opposition in how numerous it is, but it is the weight of the opposition in good constructive, better proposals than the government has. Who from the government environment - I speak for myself: I will be the first to support any better proposal, any more constructive matter, but I will not simply support and listen to long-term ones, so to speak, repeating replicas, statements, performances, talking about one and the same. That is why I do not think it is right to turn this into a third, since we now have in the Rules of Procedure, if half of the members so require. Believe me, I will always attract those who will have something constructive, and I will condemn and put myself on the side of the justice of those who see or at least suspect a certain irregularity, and if, as such, it will be investigated, and of course also investigated and reasoned, then sanctions must follow. I therefore declare that I do not support this proposal for a change to one-third, because this is purely mere blackmail if certain political options at a given time, such as political cards, do not correspond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. My colleague Kontic has the word and then my colleague Rokavec. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I have already pointed out at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission that in my opinion this method of resolution is controversial - I am thinking of an amendment to Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure. When representatives of the parliamentary groups - or rather, the political parties represented in this House - cannot agree on who is in Parliament and who is the opposition - or as my former fellow Member, Mr Hvalica, who is the opposition under A and who is the opposition under B - in this case, we are going to make changes to the Rules of Procedure. Let us write down that the right of the majority, so far, has been granted to the enity, and let us resolve this puzzling situation that has arisen in the talks. If this is the price - despite all the concerns I have - for the apparent peace in this house, of course it is worth paying this price. But I understand now that this will not be the end of the problem. The performance itself, my colleague, Mr Jerovska assures me of this. I do not think that it is entirely understandable to want a strong opposition to be the goal of a coalition or government party. It will be shown below that the implementation of these provisions of Rule 141, even if this amendment is accepted, will continue to be complicated after this solution. With this solution, we are actually opening up the possibility of returning to the leading positions, both in the working bodies and in the national assembly, those of our colleagues and colleagues who resigned yesterday. However, I am afraid that this will not be enough and that what will soon be required again after the revision of the Rules of Procedure, in such a way as to clarify in the Rules of Procedure who is the position and who is the opposition in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. It's enough time for my buddy Rokavec to play, and after his performance, we'll stop work for the morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. In fact, I would refer more to the provision of the new Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure or to the amendment in 216.a. Also about what happened today. In fact, it has already been said that the parties to the coalition have also agreed that Members will also be able to make an amendment, but in spite of everything, also what Mr Jerovšek has already mentioned and in some way characterized the role of the positional or opposition Member in this case. I think that every Member: either positional or opposition in this case is exactly the same. All on the same page. In some ways, if this provision were not to continue in the Rules of Procedure, it should be reduced in some way to independence, a certain degree of independence in the presentation of an important issue, perhaps its area, which is certainly important for each Member in the State budget as a cover document. And in a way, I think that it is now necessary to welcome this decision so that, in some way, the change of the Rules of Procedure will also allow this opportunity of a Member, in particular from this point of view, that the debate will now take place - which is significantly better, rationally - in the home working body. We do know, however, that all Members cannot attend the debate in a particular parental body. And from this point of view, this provision is certainly quite appropriate. However, I do not think that the time frame for adopting the budget will be offset by this provision. In fact, the proposed revision of the Rules of Procedure in this part will certainly help to substantially simplify and also rationalise the adoption of the budget. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. It's exactly 1:00. Comrade Podobnik has called on his colleagues twice to report this to anyone at the time of recess at 2.30 p.m. if they encounter any brutality. I just want a good one!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Have a nice afternoon. Again, I must remind my fellow Members and colleagues that they have forgotten the cards in the voting facilities, certainly there are not as many Members in the Chamber as the number on the display. That is why I am taking this opportunity, when it is not yet half-third time to invite those who wish to participate in the debate, which will otherwise require a two-thirds majority to decide to come to the Chamber and participate in the debate. Let me point out that there are not many applications for continuation of the debate, so that if there are no new stakeholders, we will decide on this agenda point pretty soon. I have to remind my colleagues and colleagues who are in their offices or elsewhere, certainly not in the hall, and they have a ballot in their voting device that this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to look at the neighbouring tables and to take the card from the voting apparatus for colleagues and colleagues who are not present; I do not think that this would be a violation of their integrity. On the contrary, otherwise we must stop the work of the assembly until they report to the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon session of the National Assembly. We are on the 3rd item of the agenda, this is when considering the draft amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. After the representatives of the parliamentary groups and some Members have spoken to the applicants, I have two more to report for the debate, which is limited to 5 minutes. These are my colleagues Tsukati and Dr. Bernik. First of all, I would like to invite my colleague Tsukati to the floor. You have the floor. But everyone else, I'm asking you to find out if there's a presence in the hall. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present, and the assembly is adjourned. It's up to you. [[There are 48 present.]] Mr. Cuckoo has the floor. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! To A1. The article would only be a replica of some implementations. I wonder why, in the light of a general provision or practice, that the Supervisory Committees are subject to substantive regulation by most members of the opposition, why they are nevertheless very opposed to their views on the third provision, so that a third of the members of this Commission or of the Committee may require documentation from budgetary consumers. I believe that, as far as the government is concerned, and I am sure that other budgetary users are working with state money as they should and are dominated by the opinion of pure accounts and good friends, then these users of public funds have nothing to fear, have nothing to hide, and I do not believe that it is in the interest of the government to hide and deny access to these documents. That is why I am sure that this amendment will also be adopted. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the adoption of the State budget, I think there are two provisions that are at issue, namely the restriction or deletion of the public debate. In view of the fact that the right of Members, as we have heard in Mr Podobnik's replica, is somehow already agreed that each Member will only be able to propose amendments, I am somewhat calmed, because otherwise the constitutional right and the legal duty of the Member to act as an individual and not on behalf of or within their Group of Members would be seriously violated. However, I believe that it is difficult for us to avoid public debate when we consider an important document such as the budget. I am therefore sure that the amendment that holds the public debate will also be adopted. I have had so many comments because I think that in general we Members are only too aware and too masochistic to go to the amputation of our rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	The last one on my list is Dr. Bernick, because that's how it's gonna be. Then we'll move on to the vote soon. Once again, I also warn those colleagues and colleagues who are not in need of 2/3 of the majority to make the decision. You have the floor, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members! After such a good meal, I almost forgot what I was going to say. [[Laugh.]] After a lunch that so many people envy us. But I remembered something that I had left in the stomach of the debate earlier, and that was the word 'extortion' I could hear. I will not repeat other things that I agree with, as regards the mistakes in the proposed amendments or the weaknesses of these amendments. However, I would say that the government is proposing or some groups of Members are proposing as short a process as possible for these changes. I would like to say that we are actually doing the government a great service, despite the fact that the government has screwed up the dates and so on. It seems to me that we must also say that we will not tolerate such delays in the future and that these changes will not be an additional motivation for the government to stall. We hope that the state budget will be adopted soon. However, I would like to go back to the word left in my stomach, that is, blackmail. It was heard with regard to the proposed amendments to Article 141. It is certainly a rationalisation of the functioning of the National Assembly in our common interest, but I would not like this to remain somehow following the idea of a structured democracy, because rationalisation is complete there. And I would like us to be aware that compromise in political life is necessary, and I think we will have to do it on the one hand a lot more than on the other. That's why I find it completely inappropriate to talk about blackmail here. Compromises are part of politics, part of democracy, such as ours and which we want to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Mr. Tarchoon, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a replica of Mr. Bernick. I'd almost "attract" him. I doubt it was in the event of a solution under Article 141 for blackmail. It would also be difficult to attract this, because the power of the opposition, as was once expressed by Praiser, is relatively small, 22 Members. And I don't think it was blackmail. But it was something else similar, at least it sounds similar - it was bartering, it was a more accurate expression, because the story was not only the opposition, but also the position. And it was bartering, I believe, and it was relatively poor bartering, because the product is also relatively poor and is not comparable to European parliaments. Of course, it is in favour of the relatively weak opposition, and I think even the opposition has been well advised. However, I must say that I will not support this alone, precisely because this is not a solution comparable to other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I find that no one else wants to discuss it anymore, and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the amendment proposal and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to this Rules of Procedure will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. That is why, in particular at this vote, I will ask for order and discipline in the Chamber. I would like to draw your attention to the position of the Parliament's business commission that, in the event that the assembly decides with a two-thirds majority of the Members present, only Members who have declared their presence before the vote can - once again - vote. I have highlighted this in particular in order to give a peer-to-peer look at the tables of my colleagues and colleagues who are absent, whether they may not have, by mistake, submitted voting cards in devices. Thank you very much. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal, i.e. on the proposal to vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 61 supported them, no one opposed them and the proposal was adopted. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I would like to remind you that in reviewing the amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, we will take into account that document, which is in your hands, which has the number 3 and below it reads "new, 3rd item, 3rd ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, EPA 41-III". That's it. I think we can leave the amendment to the commander and decide on his suitability. To the new A1. Amendments are tabled in the article, as you also have indicated under the four consecutive points. I propose that we vote in order. First of all, the amendment to the amendment of the New Slovenia and SDS groups, tabled by colleague Tone Anderlič. I suggest that, given that we have a document before us, the amendments should not be read unless at some point someone knew which amendment we were voting on; in this case, they would read its contents. This is an amendment to the new second paragraph of Article 141 to which a new third paragraph should be added, which reads as set out below. The second amendment is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points three and four are irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on the amendment of the investor, colleague Anton Anderlich. We're voting. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. 54 supported them, 7 opposed them. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the second amendment, the candidates of the New Slovenia parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present. 51 supported them, but 9 did not. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] As the proposer of the other two next amendments, I withdraw them because they were put to a meaningful vote in the first two votes. To Article 1, we have an amendment to the government's amendment. The candidates are colleagues of Tone Anderlič, Miran Potrč, Ivan Kebrič, Janez Podobnik. Anybody want a word? Excuse me? And secondly, I'm sorry, yes, the governments of the Republic of Slovenia. Excuse me, we have two proposals, two amendments. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote first on the first group of Members of Anderlič, Potrča, Kebrič and Podobnik. We're voting. 68 colleagues and colleagues are present. 66 voted in favour, two opposed. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. I propose that we decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under order number two. We're voting. Excuse me? We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 50 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] We will now vote on the text of Article 1 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The proposal supported 67 of them, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 1 is adopted. Three amendments are submitted to Article 2. Anybody want a word about them? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and decide on the first. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. It shall apply to the first paragraph of Article 216. We're voting. 69 colleagues and colleagues are present. 68 of them voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes to the second paragraph of Article 216 the amendment on which we vote. Please. There are 69 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 21 adopted them, 42 did not. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under order number three, I also have a proposal from the Socialist Party's Group to Article 216(3). We're voting on him. There are 69 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 18 supported by the proposal and 46 not. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] Thus we have decided on three amendments and we vote on the text of Article 2 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The text of Article 2 is supported by 50 colleagues and 14 opposes it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the text of Article 2 is adopted. Three amendments have been tabled to Article 3. In order of order: First the Social Democratic Party or the parliamentary group, then the candidates, colleagues of Anderlič, Delak, Potrč and at the end of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone want to discuss these three amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll make the decisions in order. First of all, on the first amendment, of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, to add the word "messengers" in the first paragraph of Article 216 for the word relationship. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues were present, 67 voted in favour, and 3 voted against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members has been adopted. Article 216a, paragraph 216a, is to be amended in Article 3. This is suggested by the proposers: colleagues Anderlič, Delak and Potrč. We are voting on this amendment. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 52 supported by this proposal, 9 opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Finally, the third one was left immaterial. Thus, we have adopted two amendments and we must decide on the text of Article 3 in its entirety. We are voting on this. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The text of the article supported them 55, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 3 is adopted. With Article 4, we have three amendments tabled, the Committee on Finance, and the adoption of this amendment is fatal for the second and third parties that become irrelevant in this case. That's why we're gonna make this decision first. Anybody want to talk about this before? Comrade Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed amendments to the Rules of Procedure and proposed amendments to Articles 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10. We're at Article 4 now. In view of the role played by the mother's working body, this role must also be defined more clearly and in this regard we have proposed an amendment, which is now under discussion. According to my information, the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure agree. I suggest you support this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Comrade Pucko. Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd say there might be a little bit of an accident with that word "receive" to make a better "proposal." This awkwardness has been resolved by us with our amendment, so I think it would be better if we reject this first and accept at least the third, because it would be more coordinated. It's also, I'd say, verbally and editorially, if I may say so. Think about it, and maybe you'll agree with us. It'd be better that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Good. Comrade Pucko, would you like? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide first on the amendment under order number one. If accepted, the amendments under points two and three are irrelevant. Otherwise, we will also decide on them. We're voting on the first amendment. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. The proposal was supported by 49 and against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. In this case, the amendments under points two and three are irrelevant. We will now vote on Article 4 as a whole. Excuse me! Since the text of Article 4 has changed completely, we do not need to vote on this now. With Article 5, we have two amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anyone want to discuss these two amendments? Comrade Pucko and colleague Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee's amendment sets out more clearly the supplementary draft budget, which is essentially in accordance with Article 8 of the proposed text of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that, given that the motions for such an amendment agree to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. So I do not think that the first amendment is in the spirit of what the proponents intended to do, namely to shorten the process of adopting the state budget. If these 30 days are deleted, this means that the government has essentially a free hand, when it can even respond - it can answer sooner, of course, but even if it was within 30 days at the latest, that means that there is a 30-day definition; if this deadline is not available, it can mean one year. I mean, I'm exaggerating, I don't think it would be a year, but it could happen, it could happen that this deadline would be exceeded. Given that Mr. Anderlicka tells me against it, I think it's settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Please don't send any messages during the debate. The government would like to define itself to do so. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. On the Committee on Finance, it was clarified that the government had in fact misunderstood this Rule of Rules of Procedure, so we withdraw our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Good. The government has therefore withdrawn the first amendment and we are therefore voting only on the second. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on the amendment to Article 5 under order number 2, the Committee on Finance and monetary policy. We're voting. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The amendment committee's proposal was supported by 59 and 4 colleagues and colleagues opposed it. The amendment was accepted. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. That's what I'm putting to the vote. We're voting. Of the 71 colleagues who voted on the text of Article 5, 65 adopted the proposal, no one opposed it and the text is therefore harmonised. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There are four amendments to Article 7, but we will not vote in this order as you have in the review, but we will vote by voting on the amendment under the current order number 3 first, then on the one under order number 1, then on the one under order number 2 and finally on the fourth. The amendment note under the current order number 2 is irrelevant. We will first vote on the amendment under the current order number three, of course, if no one wants to discuss the content of the amendment. That is the case, and that is why we will vote. To be perfectly clear to all, we are voting on the proposal of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to add the text of "the parliamentary group" in the first paragraph of Article 220 for the word relationship. On this proposal, we are voting on this amendment. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 21 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] He didn't get the necessary majority of this amendment. We will now vote on the amendment tabled by the Group of Members, Anderlič, Potrč, Kebrič, Podobnik, under the current order number one. This is an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 7. We're voting. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The amendment supported 51 and against 9. (For the vote was 51.)(against 9.) The amendment of the proposals of Anderlič, Potrča, Kebrič and Podobnik has been adopted. We are voting on the proposal by the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy, which is now on the list under order number two. In order to add a new second paragraph, which reads: "Amendments are proposed for individual parts of the state budget's complementary proposal." We're voting. And then, "the second paragraph becomes the third paragraph." We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 59 votes in favour and three opposed to the proposal. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. Finally, the amendment under order number four, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to add a new third paragraph, which reads as set out in the text. We're voting. 72 colleagues and colleagues are present. The proposal supported 24, and 41 opposed it. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] He did not receive the necessary two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. We vote on the text of Article 7 in its entirety. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present. The text was supported by 61 and 2 opposed it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The text is consistent. With Article 8, we have three amendments tabled: a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anderlic, a Committee on Finance and again a group of Members with a colleague, first-signed colleague Anderlic. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and we vote. We are voting on amendments under order numbers; first, 1, the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 8, the proposal for a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anderlic. We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 53 supported by the proposal, 4 opposed it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] The proposal was adopted. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to replace the text of the first paragraph of the "Proposal of the State Budget" with the text of the "Supplementary Draft State Budget" in order to amend the second paragraph and the third paragraph. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on this proposal. Between 71 colleagues and colleagues, the amendment of the Committee supported 28, 32 against them. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment of the committee was not adopted. Under order number three, we have an amendment by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Anderlic. We're voting on him. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. The proposal of the Group of Members was supported by 53 and 3 opposed and adopted. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] We can now vote on the text of Article 8 as a whole. We're voting. The text of Article 8 shall be decided by 71 Members and Members. The text was decided to vote 59 and 1 opposed it. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The text is consistent. We have two amendments tabled to Article 9. Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] It's up to us to decide. First, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues voted, 65 supported, 2 opposed. The Government's proposal for an amendment has been adopted. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the amendment of the Finance Committee. We decide who's up for it, who's up for it. 71 colleagues and colleagues are in the hall. The Committee's proposal or amendment was adopted by 62, and no one objected to it, so it was adopted. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can now make a full decision on the text of Article 9. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues decided on the proposal. He was supported by 63 of them, no one opposed him. The text of Article 9 is harmonised. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Finally, we are voting on the amendment to the 10th member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want a word? [[No one wants to.]] We're voting. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues in the hall. The vote was 47 and 13 opposed him. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now finally voting on the text of Article 10 as amended. We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present. The proposal was supported by 49 votes in favour and 8 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that this article has also been harmonised. Since we have held a debate and a vote on the amendments tabled, we are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Anybody want a word? I guess not, that's why we're voting on them. 72 colleagues and colleagues vote on the group of these articles. 57 supported by this proposal, one opposed it. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the remaining articles of the Rules of Procedure are adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the Rules of Procedure. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] That is why we are moving on to a decision on the title of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The title supports 59, no one opposes it. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. Do qualified candidates want to table any of the amendments? There is no or no such proposal. That's why we're moving on to a decision. Is there a problem with coordination, Secretariat? That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the rules of procedure. Mr. Diaca, did you want a word? Please, can you please switch on
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	On the basis of Article 72, paragraph 2, I would like to request a recess of half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	I'm taking a half-past. The meeting will be held from 20 to 4 p.m. by the National Assembly. I ask to attend because two-thirds of those present are required. Twenty to 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	More cards, such as Members and Members, are inserted in the voting apparatus. Please, colleagues and colleagues, come to the hall so that we can continue the meeting and the decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Please, by inserting a card into the voting device, determine the presence in the hall. Since this is a sensitive vote, please take a look at your neighbor, so that he may not have forgotten the card in the voting device after all. Only those Members and Members who have declared their presence may vote. The decision or proposal shall be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We have interrupted the previous point in the vote on the Rules of Procedure in its entirety. At the suggestion of the leader of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, we had a half-hour rest. I ask the leader of the Group whether he wants a word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia somehow found itself in a dilemma. We supported most of the amendments and most of the articles, we didn't just support Article 7 - I think it's 7. - which discusses the submission of amendments to the parliamentary groups. That is why we have in some way decided that we will abstain from this vote, conditionally speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Vote please, Secretariat? [[...]] Could you turn it off, Mr. Diaci? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Before the vote, however, I would like to inform the National Assembly that, in Article 8, whatever it may be necessary to bring the text into line with the other decisions taken in drafting terms. Because we have added the word "programme" to parts of the budget everywhere, and it is also evident that in this part of the Rules of Procedure governing the adoption of the budget, decisions are made on the supplementary budget. When asked for coherence, we did not have any comments, but in the meantime we found that, taking into account the editorially harmonised text through all the Rules of Procedure, the drafting of the text would take place in order to take account of the amendment of the editorial nature which was rejected by the Second reading Assembly at Article 8. In essence, it is merely a editorial definition that, in the first and second paragraphs, it is always a complementary draft budget. Moreover, as I say, we usually arrange in the final edition, but I thought it appropriate to warn the assembly that in this case a decision should be made which the assembly, as an editorial fact, rejected. By asking or asking for an editorial authority to be voted on in particular if it is assessed that this goes beyond the tasks of the secretariat, however, I believe it is necessary to table an appropriate harmonised, harmonisation amendment to this Article. But it's a clean line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Does any of the Members and Members object to this being taken into account in the final edition, as the Head of the Secretariat for Legal Affairs said? No one's opposed. Therefore, it is not necessary to vote specifically on this amendment. The National Assembly took note of her warning of editorial nature. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the rules of procedure. I'm putting the Rules of Procedure to a vote. 68 colleagues and colleagues voted. The proposal was adopted by 66, 2 opposed him. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the Council of State adopted the text of the Rules of Procedure in the articles it amended. The session will then be chaired by Comrade Delak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Nicely greeted. We're moving to four. It's a day's work. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural suggestion that due to complications on Ljubljana TV or Slovenian television and because of the hot topic that needs to be settled and put into place as soon as possible, we continue with the 32nd item of the agenda, these are elections and appointments. That is, to vote only on the Decision on Consent to the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. And, Mr President, I ask you to put your proposal to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I propose to vote that we proceed with the point proposed. Please let us vote. One moment, please. I'll do it again. I guess I'm not good enough at this mechanism that's here, and that's why I'm repeating what's already been said. So the proposal was to move on to one of the following agenda items, this is the case "Director-General of RTV Ljubljana". Since this is a procedural proposal and of course there is no debate on it, you will decide by vote, and I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote yes or no. There are 80 Members present. 44 votes to 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it this point is on the agenda. Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Mr Jelinčič's proposal was to place only part of the item on the agenda. This is not possible because Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure states that otherwise the Assembly may change the order of treatment of individual agenda items, but cannot place only half of the agenda in advance. So the proposal that was put forward is unfair business. Voting is irrelevant. If you insist on this, I can tell you that we have organised the work of the Group of Members by holding a specific consultation on this agenda item. After the agenda was adopted, we followed the agenda adopted, and we cannot decide on it today. If you make this happen, we'll take so much time off that today's decision won't be possible. And that is, I must say - what has now happened is incorrect, and it is a mockery of the argument that has been put forward in relation to the Rules of Procedure, if someone wants to rationalise the work of the National Assembly. With such suggestions, we only get involved and waste our time. I don't know why we're even taking the agenda if someone comes up here and changes points of their own volition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. It is probably known to all Members that we have addressed part of a point several times before - the election of appointment is part of this. I'm in a very awkward situation. But the rules of procedure tell us how to do business. Please, let's get this out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Mr. Chairman! In view of what Mr Janša said, I think that this is not a problem, but the whole point of 'election and appointment' will be addressed. In short, everything that's made in the materials.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	Look. Of course, I agree that the point is being considered. But I think it would suggest inviting the proposers and that the point might be considered in about an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Mr. Chairman! We voted on this; the National Assembly voted on this decision by a democratic majority and I think there are no obstacles to normal work here.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Yes, there are only, excuse me, some organizational arrangements for such a point of the agenda. At the very least, Members must acquire material. The proposer should be invited.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	Mr President, we have had material for quite some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	So I'm deciding to start this point in an hour, so that's round the clock at 5 p.m. In the meantime, of course, we will invite the proposer and Members have the opportunity to obtain all the material they need for this point. Well, in an hour. Continue with the point predicted, 4. Agenda item three - Proposal for a Aviation Act. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	Mr President, I note that your proposal is contrary to what Mr Jelinčič has proposed. Mr Jelinčič proposed a part of the point and specifically named it, RTV Ljubljana - I do not know what he meant by it - and this matter was voted, despite our intervention after procedural objections. You have now placed the whole point, which was not voted on, on the agenda at 5 p.m., which is also contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your comment. Maybe I wasn't being precise. I meant what was proposed. The point is the whole, the election and the appointment, but we will be discussing the Director-General of RTV in particular. So we have a third reading of the proposal for an aviation law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Does the government want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! We have a third consideration of the proposal for an aviation law. So this new aviation law that we've been waiting for a long time, and we've been reviewing and preparing it in the previous term, and we've come up with it for consideration. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	Members and Members of the House, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	until the third reading. [[...]] So this law will, of course, replace the law already passed in the former SFRJ country and, of course, this legislation is out of date. The proposed law is urgently needed, including in view of the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to comply with the acquis of the European Union. The applicant's fundamental guide was to draw up a modern European regulation, which would also follow the modern aviation safety standards of international aviation organisations and, of course, the requirements in the field of civil aviation in the European space. This takes account of a range of European rules from the following areas: aviation security and technical harmonisation, airport and environmental operations and, last but not least, access to the air transport market. It is not too much to point out that the proposed law also provides a basis for the issuance of a number of sub-legislative acts that will allow for easier and faster coordination of Slovenian aviation regulations with the increasingly stringent requirements of aviation safety standards and requirements. However, safety in aviation is also the focus of the highest priority. Dear Members and Members! I propose that the proposal under consideration, together with the amendment of the Government and the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Council, you consider and adopt and, at the same time, I propose that, after considering the substantive provisions of the legislative proposal, the necessary harmonisation amendments, in particular with regard to criminal provisions, as already proposed by the editorial amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which is likely to require a small amount of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd meeting, on 7 February, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment discussed a proposal for an aviation law submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In discussing the individual articles of the bill, we have paid considerable attention to the solutions in 95., 125., 155.a., 158. and 163. Articles of the bill and to the debate on individual solutions. The Committee has drafted the following amendments to the draft law: Articles 41, 42, 44, 47, 50a, 51, 52a, the amendment for the new 52a, Article 54, 55, 56, 65, 67, 72, 73, 75, 77, 80, 84, 86, 87, 89, to Article 125 - and I would like to remind you that today you have received an amendment that is of a more nominal nature in order for our amendment to be properly proclaimed, so please, when we vote on this amendment, take this correction that you have received on the table. Then the amendment to Article 126, 135, 158, 162, 162, 193, 195.a, 197 for the new 212.a and for Article 213. The Committee also considered the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the Party of Young Slovenia: the Committee supports and supports the amendments of the Government listed on page 18, but does not support the amendment of the Government to Article 84, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 6, 108, 113 and 206a, and the Youth Slovenia Group to Articles 15, 42, 206 and 206a. Neither does the amendment of the Joint List Group to Article 102. The Committee notes that the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are irrelevant if the National Assembly adopts the amendments of the Committee, namely the amendments of the Government to Articles 41, 42, 47, 52, 54, 72 and 213. The Joint List Group has announced the withdrawal of the amendments [[I hope we got it on the table.]] . Finally, we have decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft aviation law, the third, be adopted together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments supported by the Committee. Finally, I would like to thank the representative of the secretariat for the legislation and legal affairs of our Parliament, the representatives of the government and those interested in working organisations or companies, so that we can prepare amendments for this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Weber and Mr. Onion. Please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Good bye to all of you! On behalf of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, I would like to point out that we have already observed in the second reading of the law that amendments introducing economic public services into the aviation law are not sufficiently appropriate, and this is later confirmed in the third reading. Therefore, we have proposed a second reading decision that the applicant should prepare, by the third reading, an analysis of the reasons for the introduction of compulsory Republic economic services and an analysis of the legal, organisational and financial implications of the introduction of these services at the airport. In the Rapporteur, and when reading the third reading material, there was no valid explanation for the introduction of economic public services. However, it is certainly a very clear part of this report, which speaks of the advantage of privatisation in the field of aviation. Here we can see that this mode of action facilitates the financing of additional capacity by facilitating access to monetary markets and in particular markets, raising the rate of conversion, improving profitability, increasing tax revenues, local authorities solving problems in the provision of airports, improving the quality of services, speeding up decision-making without political or administrative influence and giving power to carriers. These are all the arguments that suggest that only hard work can we develop aviation in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. The activities that have taken place before the examination of the law itself at the committee and the meetings of the National Assembly have, as may be said, been successful on behalf of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Both the government and all interested, and in particular the Secretariat for Law and Professional Services, have drafted amendments, which we also support in the Group of Members. In particular, I would like to point out here that the concept of airport management offers today an opportunity under this text to operate airports, both for those who have sufficient traffic and for those who do not have enough traffic to operate on the basis of market principles. In this case, however, it is also possible to introduce economic public services. Unfortunately, the law is still not harmonised to this extent in order to further exclude the administrative regulation of aviation. However, we are also kind of pleased that the government is obviously deciding to try to sell its shares in the airport on the market, which means that it also agrees with the privatisation policy and, of course, with the rapid development of airports, as possible when introducing economic public services or with the increased involvement of policies and administrations in the development of these services. In fact, the attitude toward navigation services remained somewhat misplaced. This was also pointed out by the union of these services. The fact is that the position of navigation services is deteriorating under this law. However, there are 120 people in the Republic of Slovenia, of whom 80 retain the powers they have already had since the regulation, and 40 are supposed to be out of these ratings, and 20 of them, of course, are directly affected because they have already had these ratings, and they are taken from them under this law, and 20 have not actually had them as technical staff before. We therefore consider it useful to support the amendments to Article 42 of young Slovenia and also to give serious consideration to the amendments to Articles 206 and 206a. All these articles speak precisely of the operation of navigation services, which are, of course, absolutely necessary for air transport to take place safely. We have already in writing withdrawn the amendments, except for the amendment to Article 102. We believe that the content of Article 102, as enshrined in the law, is difficult to implement, since it prescribes a period of 48 hours or 7 days to remedy deficiencies at airports. However, the fact is that this article also discusses the possibility of withdrawing an operating licence. We can see in the law that the time limit for obtaining a business permit or establishing everything necessary to obtain a business permit is up to one year. That is why we insist on our amendment, in which we speak of this deadline being set by a decision of the inspector, which in some cases will be issued if problems arise at airports. This seems much more feasible to us. That's why we didn't withdraw this amendment. Thus, if the amendments of the Committee and the amendment of the United List are adopted, the law will also be supported in the final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that the law itself did not have a previous reading of the adoption and that the majority of the local communities bordering airports expected more attention from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, in particular their State Secretary, which, of course, was also the basis of quite large complaints on the basis of noise and certain air emissions, which threatened these local communities, with multiple responses from the Ministry of Transport and Communications and also from the airport itself, this is mainly the case for the airport of Brnik in order to regulate this by a new law. Given that we have then tabled certain amendments to the Joint Local Communities, which mainly concern the local communities of affected citizens, these amendments have not been supported by the Home Working Committee. In view of the fact that certain local communities we have associated with this law, we have also ruled that if, at any time in the National Assembly, amendments relating to local communities, in particular Article 6, Article 108, Article 113 and Article 206 do not receive support, then local communities will be organised and there will be State disobedience and also possible consequences which are the right in all democratic countries to oppose the citizens of Slovenia in this way. Well, in short, let me say that if these amendments are not supported by the National Assembly, then the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will not support the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u129	The Aviation Act, which we now have at third reading, is one of the more important laws in entering Europe, not because of entry into Europe, but because of the security it brings in the field of air transport and also air sports. The law is conceived, prepared and presented in the third reading, by the fact that the amendments drafted by the Government and prepared by the Committee are in fact acceptable. Most of the other amendments are out of law and have special intentions that I don't think there's much to talk about. It is a certain desire of some to still have the most expensive airport in Europe or the second most expensive airport in Europe; the intention of some to lead certain financial resources elsewhere; the desire to allow greater powers or greater freedom to organise sentences on a security account and so on. The aviation is just too much to say, an exact and overly complicated matter, so that some amendments can be accepted superficially and somehow far away, without question. Therefore, it makes sense that, once again, I say, they are confirmed or voted in favour of the amendments drafted by the Government, together with the committee or with their professional services, within the government and outside the government. We'll be happy to support the marriage. After all, we are already far behind in this law, but it is urgently needed to ensure air safety in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Here you go, Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much and very much! In the LDS Group, we estimate that it is high time for the aviation law to experience its final adoption epilogue. The unsustainable situation caused mainly by the old Yugoslav legislation, which has led us to have this area regulated so far, needs to be halted urgently. As a result, we have been very active in the preparation of all three stages of this law, and we also note that the main problem that has always been addressed is the problem between the different, sometimes even completely exclusionary positions of managers or users of the law, that in some way the government has now coordinated these issues with the Committee in its third reading. According to information that none of these two extreme forces are fully satisfied with this law, it is said that the marriage is likely to be truly good, for it would not be good for only one party to be very pleased and only one party to be very unhappy. In the shadow of this main problem, there has also been a demand and integration of trade unions, technical and navigation services and other personnel operating at airports, and I think that Article 15 of the Act, which also allows the strike of this part of the air traffic operator, is also adequately resolved and acceptable under certain conditions. For this reason, the LDS Group will adopt the law, together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments of the government, which the Committee has also adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? I don't see any more applicants. I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. No one signed in. I limit the debate to five minutes for the other Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u133	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Air traffic is the branch of traffic to be carried out as quickly as possible. The Air Traffic Act, however, is the law that was born with the greatest torments and has the longest tail in the history of this National Assembly. If you look at how many pages there are for this law, if you look at how many amendments have been tabled, then we really see that there was a great compromise between just two interests: between the interests of airport operators and between the interests of airlines. That interest that we, and that has suffered all the time, is the interest of an air passenger. As air passengers, the beneficiaries of these services, we have in fact had the least opportunity to promote the development of air transport, to respect the European rules of the game, to overcome the situation arising from the former Yugoslavia. So don't mind me just pointing out something that seems extremely important to me. The status of airports, as is the case today, stems from the previous law created in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. At that time, all the airports were allowed all possible activities in the belief that there would not be enough air traffic and that most traffic would run through Belgrade and maybe Zagreb, and everyone else could do anything, charged as much as they wanted, as their activities would not be. Well, in the meantime Yugoslavia has fallen apart, now we have a new country and of course we have monopolies - Brno airport is a monopoly. Of course, it's not his fault, it's just new facts. But the delay in this situation seems to me to be the most damaging of the Ljubljana airport. That is why it seems to me that it is really high time that we accept all these proposed amendments and that we conclude this story today. After entering the European Union, we will be asked another question: will our air carrier be able to survive, or will we be able to maintain as many lines as we still have today, if in some working organisations, in particular airports, they continue to tease, irritate air traffic in the way it has been done so far? I don't cheer for one, not for the other. What I want to say is that we need to take the interests of passengers, individuals, citizens in particular here. Our interest must be as many airlines as possible, as many direct connections as possible, and at the lowest possible cost. Some major air carriers were forced to cancel their flight to Ljubljana. Sabena doesn't fly from Brussels anymore. British Airways doesn't fly from London anymore, and no one else will fly anymore. Until we change our legislation and introduce market rules to air transport, we will have so many problems in this area. Therefore, I strongly recommend that we accept the proposed amendments as quickly as possible and that, during today's and probably tomorrow's treatment, because we have so many amendments, we do not find any proposals delaying the adoption of individual amendments, as well as the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelko Kacin, given that you are referring to the law itself, as necessary to bring the European Union closer, I do not think that the law itself is experiencing what could possibly be said to be European. I agree that the law itself must be adopted. But here's where I'm asking you. European legislation, which is familiar to us, allows every citizen in all democratic regulatory systems to receive some compensation with certain compensations or a certain pension for a particular protected area or potentially threatened area. This law, the law that we have before us, and, according to promises, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and 20 years, the airport itself, more than 10 years in order to regulate this by law alone and that those areas, those villages or those living people there, will be protected from noise and certain environmental emissions that harm the part that is at the airport itself. From this place, I would personally assess that this is not a European law, but it is a law that allows or has made a certain transfer within the system itself at the airport, the relationship between Adrio and the airport, and also something that I have to admit, even a few European categories, which refers to our citizens themselves or to citizens or living people at the airport, but is excluded from this law. And that's not European legislation for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber. Mr. Weber, excuse me, is it a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u137	No, no, I had a replica to discuss earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u138	Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr. Weber first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u139	I have a replica for Mr Kacin's debate, in the intermediate work he was talking about the monopoly and about preserving the situation as it was when it was Yugoslavia. In fact, this law completely amends and introduces these rules, which at the end of the debate Mr Kacin mentioned, the market rules of the game. These marketing rules of the game between airport operators and carriers are certainly the way in which they will provide quality services in the future and thus, of course, services that will be as user-friendly and of course as possible. However, I would definitely like to point out that the government's reports also show that the airport was barely operational before 1986, but today the government notes, it is one of the most powerful and best-standing airlines in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, all of this is connected to airport traffic. Transport is also the one that tells how an airport should operate. Today, traffic is achieved by those who already allow only the provision of air carriers, and this is actually possible in this law. Thus, it is not only the market rules of the game between the carrier and between operators, but also the possibility of providing certain services directly to air carriers. And if someone else gave up flying to Slovenia, that was certainly not the reason at the airport, but probably the number of passengers. If the number of passengers is large enough, they certainly love all airlines on these lines. I think that is also the basic reason why some companies have deviated from the lines already established by our airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Excuse me, Mr. Kacin, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to replicate the respectable colleague of Cebulje, the mayor of the municipality of Cerklje. I had previously divided interests on two sides - on one side of airlines, on the other side of airport managers - and I spoke on the third page about air passengers. I apologize for leaving the municipality where the airports are. But in this it is possible to divide all these interests into two groups: one that pays for this activity, and these are only and exclusively air passengers, and then those who live from this activity, and these are air carriers, on the other hand, on the other side of the airport and on the third side also municipalities that would like to have an income from this title. I do not object to this, I just apologize for not mentioning this in the first place - these expectations are realistic. As for Mr. Weber and some warnings. I'll tell you practically. Last year we were able to fly to London for 30,000 dollars this year, when British Airways is gone, it is no longer possible. If we have more airlines on the domestic market, we as individuals, as buyers of these services, will have a choice. The competition on the market always works for the benefit of the air passenger. That's what this is about. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for such a competition to take place. This law is certain - for sure! - creates such conditions, so I support them. But what I have specifically pointed out is the danger of having a new complication as we have never before in the procedure. I don't want to experience that. I would like this law to be published as soon as possible in the Official Journal and to enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 12.2.2001. I ask Members and Members to take this material. As we can see, he's quite abundant, which is why I'm asking for serious consideration. I also inform Members and Members that we have received the withdrawal of the amendments, namely the Joint List Group on Articles 1, 8, 84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 101, 154, 155 and 161, and the correction of the amendments to the proposal of the Aviation Act of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Please consider this material. I am putting an amendment to Article 1 into the debate. There are two amendments. The second amendment has been withdrawn. We therefore vote on the first amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 71 Members are present - 35 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're dealing with Section 2. We have an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. Please let us vote. 67 Members present - for 38, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 5 - one of the government's amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 Members present - for 39, against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the amendment for Article 5a - one amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 66 Members and Members present - for 37, against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are considering amendments to Article 6 - one amendment. Please, he wants to discuss Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u143	I just want to give a procedural warning. We voted on the amendments, but we did not vote on the whole article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u144	However, the third is under consideration. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u145	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 6? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u147	I just want to point out that the government disagrees with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. 66 Members present - for 14, against 28. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment was not accepted. Article 8 is one amendment, withdrawn. Second amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting on the second amendment. 66 Members and Members present - for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We're moving on to Article 15. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on [[...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u149	So the government, with its amendment or with its text, I think it's basically also summarized a partial amendment under number two, which is why it doesn't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. So we're voting on the first amendment, that's the government's amendment. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present - for 37, for 5. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was adopted. We are voting on another amendment that the government does not support. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present - for 5, for 35. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 16. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 Members present - for 46, for 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We move on to Article 19, the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. I find that 67 Members and Members are present - for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We move on to the amendment to Article 24. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 Members and Members present - for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 28. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 Members and Members present. For 40, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are considering an amendment to Article 30. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 66 Members and Members present. For 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 30 was adopted. We are moving on to the 31st article and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 66 Members and Members present. Thirty-seven, one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 32. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 66 Members and Members present. For 38, against 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u151	I have a procedural proposal. I propose that we stop the treatment or adoption of this law and propose a two-hour recess. This is because we find that the law is very complex and on this basis we will also announce how we will be able to support the amendments themselves and perhaps the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u152	As I understand it, you're proposing a suspension of the session because you didn't say anything, I suppose, for the sake of consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u153	For the sake of consultation, of course, for the consultations of the Group of Members. I suggest two hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u154	Before the vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u155	Yes, before the vote of the amendment itself, I proposed a procedural proposal. And I'm asking you to measure the double break, as I suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u156	Yes, in my opinion, this is not in accordance with the rules of procedure that you have just proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u157	Mr Delak, when we discussed the interpellation or the work of Mr Mirk Bandl, you also proposed - I have a magnetogram here, when you also proposed a double break and the president accepted it at the time. I think, given the established practice, including yourself, I think it belongs to us from these views as a human face. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u158	Mr. Onion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u159	No, to just refer to the rules of procedure. You were also once a candidate for the same time that you measured.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u160	It's not a time problem, it's a time problem. So, thank you very much for your comments. Following a procedural proposal, of course, there is no particular debate or debate when it was presented. I estimate that there are no conditions for a break and that is why we continue to work. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u161	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman! The second paragraph of Article 72 reads as follows: "The President shall terminate the work of the national assembly if requested by the parliamentary group for consultation in the group." That's what it says. We've told you what this is all about. At a time just before the vote on the previous amendment, Mr Onebulj raised his hand. You haven't seen this for employment or other reasons and, of course, there may be a delay. However, Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph, makes it clear that the Group of Members has the right to consult. But you won't be able to give that up. Mr Onbulj suggested that, because there are different opinions, as you have heard, on this matter, you should consult on these things, there are many. I don't know how you can imagine that we wouldn't have this right when there are 70 pages of amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u162	If you allow, we will first consider the amendment to Article 36. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. Please! Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u163	Mr. Chairman. First you said we were going to the vote, then what? No, I just raised my hand before this article's vote, and I've just requested a recess for the Group's consultation, based on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u164	Yes, we are before the vote, which is now. Please, if you repeat your request.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u165	Before this vote I raised my hand, I proposed a procedural proposal for a two-way recess of the Group of Members to consult on the complex of the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u166	So, I'm adjourning the session. Because you wanted two hours off, because today, of course, the working time is going to run out, because of that, yes, I'm sorry. [[...]] So, wait, wait, I need to get better. At 5 p.m., the agenda item was announced and, therefore, at 5 p.m., we will, of course, begin at 5 p.m., starting with the item on the agenda of the election and appointment, the specific part of this item - RTV. Thank you very much. I'm breaking up by 5:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u167	We're continuing our session. I ask Members and Members to take their seats. There are 54 Members and Members present, and we can conclude. The word wishes, procedurally, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I repeat the procedural proposal, just as I said 15 minutes ago: I insist and demand, Mr Delak, that you give our Group a two-hour recess to consult on the law. And I ask you why it was necessary for us to consider just before this point a new law or new rules of procedure of the National Assembly, if there is a way of leading you, Sir Delak, the way you now have before us. Please order us a two-hour recess so that the Group of Members will consult. And I'm protesting against the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u169	So, Mr Onbulj, the conclusion that at 5 p.m. we will continue the meeting with another point, in particular, with elections and appointments, was adopted earlier. This is why we will deal with this point; after this point has been considered, we will take the vacation you proposed. So, we're on the agenda of 32. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. We will discuss the proposal for a decree on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. The draft decree was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Immediately after the word of the representative of the Commission, Mr Pukšič, you will be given the floor for a procedural proposal. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia states at the outset that "the President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly, if requested by the parliamentary group for consultation in the group". Mr President, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group has requested a consultation in the parliamentary group for two hours, and you have suspended the meeting, and we are in suspension. Whatever is happening from this point forward is contrary to the rules of procedure and is not legitimate. Therefore, we urge you once again to continue the suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u171	Mr. Pukšič, I thank you very much for your thoughts. All I have to do is tell you that the Rules of Procedure are interpreted by the Presidents, not by chance by you, and that is why we will continue the meeting - elections and appointments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u172	It is true that the Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u173	Mr. Pukšič, you don't have a word, you've already said everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u174	The President, it is true that he interprets the Rules of Procedure, but he does not interpret it because that is the way he writes it in the Rules of Procedure, and he cannot interpret it in his own way, because there are no secret rules of procedure in any secret official document, thank God, there is no more. I demand that you stop this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u175	Mr. Pukšič, once again, thank you very much for your thoughts. We continue with the session - elections and appointments. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He's not here.]] The sleeve, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In view of the adoption of the agenda yesterday, we have clearly agreed on the order and also on the treatment of certain items early. This proposal, which was tabled today by a fellow Member, Mr Jelinčič, came past this agreement, even past the rules of procedure adopted and in the spirit of the adopted rules of procedure adopted at today's meeting. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to request, in accordance with Rule 72 of this Rules of Procedure, a two-hour recess to prepare for the election and appointment point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u177	As you are aware, the debate is now under way. However, rest is given before the vote and therefore I ask you to wait until the debate is over, and before the vote, if you repeat this wish, I will, of course, give you a break. Please, again!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u178	Mr. Chairman! I made it clear that a proposal came in a bad hour ago, and it was later. In view of the fact that the proposal came later, past the agreement on the adoption of the agenda, we have the right to a two-hour recess to prepare for this item in the agenda, and I demand that you grant us two hours of recess in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u179	I will, of course, give you a break when all these matters are resolved. Yeah, I'm sorry, that's the way I interpret the rules of procedure. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, procedurally. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is true that the President interprets the Rules of Procedure. There is no need to discuss this. However, allow me to remind you, Mr Vice President, that - I am not thinking of you right now, but of the one who is interpreting. At this point, it's you. That he cannot interpret what is not possible and what is contrary to the rules of procedure in one way or another. Which at first sight appears to be the opposite. So much for that. The next thing I want to say is that I am protesting in this way to deal with our proposal. I'd like to remind you of something. We took two hours off for the consultation, we didn't say we wanted to have two hours to go to the market. If we have asked for a consultation, this means that we will consult in the Group of Members. And that this is a serious purpose, we can prove by means of papers that we have seriously planned to consult on this earlier. We can prove it. It's not made up. And if we consult in the parliamentary group, we cannot be physically present here. That's why we took two hours off. Now, if you think that Parliament can work without us, then we can finally do what you have now done. Well, it can if we consult and the National Assembly works without us. But I don't think it makes sense for anyone or us or any other group of Members to work without one group of Members. And that's why I don't think it was right that you didn't interrupt the meeting for two hours. What does that mean, that's another thing. But the consultation in the parliamentary group means that we will be doing something physically there and we cannot be here. And once again, we didn't take two hours to go somewhere else, but to be in the sent-in group, then we can't be here. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, please take note of what we have said: consultation in the Group of Members. I'd ask you so much. And think again. Nothing, we won't mind if you change your mind now. Just take it like we said. It wasn't about going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u181	Yes, thank you very much. It is true, however, that we have decided to continue the meeting at 5 p.m. with a specific agenda item. Please don't - raise your hand if you want to discuss. Procedural, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u182	When we were talking almost idyllically yesterday, the president of the National Assembly and the leader of the Social Democracy Group - at least some thought that there was too much family atmosphere - I thought that there was something that could really be expected to do some normal work, including, of course, by raising votes, by procedural complications and so on, but not by some things that were still in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that were perfectly normal until now, by voting, by democratic decision, that is to say, by the majority present in the National Assembly at that time, the agenda would be set, the order would be set and that this order would also change. That's all that happened today. I believe that the plans in a group may have been different, that expectations are one way or another, but it is true that it is the responsibility of all of us, that we try to help the President, that we all try to follow the rules of procedure in ourselves, and because you obviously want to dissuade the President, I am procedurally proposing to the President and thus trying to help him to put to the vote his interpretation of the rules of procedure regarding the vote and the holiday he ordered or decided when point 32 would continue. And I suggest you put to the vote your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u183	You heard the proposal. So I'm going to do it again. Before a request was made to set a recess due to consultations in the parliamentary group, it was decided that at 5 p.m. we should proceed with the item on the agenda which had been announced. My explanation or my explanation is as I said. For this reason, I ask you to confirm or not to confirm my reasons for the Rules of Procedure in this sense, in order to proceed with the point foreseen at 5 p.m. But I'm making a motion for a vote. There's no debate! It's nothing either! We're voting now. Please. So I find that there are 67 present, 39 agreed with my reasons for the Rules of Procedure, 2 opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] Of course, there is no debate on this. I'm going on with the election and the appointment. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please. Janez Spodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u184	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! A few minutes ago, some eggs flew into Parliament. What we're doing right now is not at the time of this house. An hour ago, we adopted an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, having a full mouthful of firm conclusions to respect. What happened today is in conflict with the agreement. But since the majority obviously decided to violate our agreement - and the deal was to build the house of this house, the agreement - the president of the National Assembly wrote when he sent us a purified agenda, how we would work. And look at what it says: "Mr Vice President, you correctly assessed an hour ago, so that it would be necessary for Members and Members to look at the material in order to discuss it." During that time, we discussed another law. When, then, should we study the material? When? You can make fun of yourself, buddy Pucka, you can make fun of yourself, but it's a joke from yourself. It's a mockery of itself! There's something else I need to tell you guys at the coalition that you played me. You played me! Well done! Now to the agenda, because you're obviously going to force us to decide. I hope, Vice-President, that as an experienced man you will give time to prepare the Group of Members for the agenda. If the decision were to be correct earlier, we should suspend the meeting for an hour, not continue with the second item on the agenda. So now I'm going to improvise. I was at another meeting; as soon as I was called to continue, I joined here, and I apologize for improvising a little. In the SLS + SKD Group of Members - Slovenian People's Parties, we will support the RTV Council proposal that RTV Slovenia is the Director-General, Mr Janez Čadež. I must say that, on our proposal and on the proposal of Mr Chadez, we met with him in an open discussion within the Group of Members. All the eyewitnesses at his expense were brought forward during this conversation. Mr. Chadian answered our questions. He told us what the status of the interim report of the supervisory authority is called the Court of Auditors. By the way, this report has a code of confidentiality. What does this mean that the content of this report comes to the public on the day of the decision of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia?Oh, my God! What this means is the question for someone else, it is also a question of the credibility of this institution. The discussion at the parliamentary group made it clear that members of the RTV Council, in which the eminent representatives of civil society and also representatives of political parties were able to see this interim report before they decided. And when they saw it, in their own opinion - among them were academics, university professors who worked around the world, and they were told that they were corrupts, that was what they heard about them - they decided to give 13 votes in favour of Mr Chadje's proposal. So they were informed of the interim report of the Court of Auditors. Of course, the issue of objective and subjective responsibility also opens up when a supervisory authority finds out something. Of course, we do not want to diminish the importance of auditing the Court of Auditors in any way. We propose the only reasonable way that the decision of the Court of Auditors or the procedure does not affect our decision. If it has not affected the decision of the Council of RTV, then it is correct to entrust the decision of the Council of RTV, in accordance with our powers. You will admit to them, my fellow Members and colleagues, that it was reasonable to suggest that the RTV Council appointed him who proposed him as Director-General a week ago. If I suggested otherwise, I'd smile. So I would have acted contrary to my decision. In a way he was consistent, he proposed to Mr Chadez for the V.D. I am firmly convinced that the only right path for the national assembly is to support Mr Chadje today. However, if the final report of the Court of Auditors is to be decided by the Council of RTV in accordance with its powers, on behalf of the Supervisory Board, as it must decide, and proposes a discharge procedure. We therefore propose that this document, which has a code of confidentiality and which has also been appealed by the Council of RTV in accordance with the procedure, give its views that it does not affect today's decision. I also propose, Mr Vice-President, that, in order to assist the parliamentary groups or Members, all Members should be informed of the material received by the parliamentary groups, if I am well informed - this is the starting point for the RTV Slovenia Strategic Business Plan by 2005. This is a document that has more than 100 pages and is a strategic document showing the vision of Mr Čadež and writes that he has prepared it with his colleagues; so what is the future development of this important public institution of Slovenia. I suggest that in this break we will be given to reproduce this important document. I am confident that it will help MEPs and Members in their decision. I would like to conclude with a call and a proposal that our decision will calm the situation, but not that it will bring new oil to the fire. The procedure under which we decide is also important. If we want Members and Members to prepare themselves in peace for this item of the agenda, which has already generated a lot of interest in the Slovenian public, I believe that we are therefore entitled to prepare and perform in peace in the national assembly and then we decide. The Group of Members, however, will support Mr Chadje as Director-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik, I think there is no reason why Members should not receive the material you have proposed. Do other representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? Kebrich, Diaci. Here you go, Mr. Kebrich, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you for your words, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we feel it is wrong to vote today for the Director-General of Chad. The reasons for this are as follows. For the first time, the term of his term of office has now expired and the world has appointed him V.D. the Director-General. That is to say, we have six months to decide and wait for a final or comprehensive report from the Audit Commission. Why don't we just wait and decide? For we believe that against the wind, forgive me, it is not good to act against the collective. It's hard to imagine what kind of atmosphere will prevail. It is hard to imagine that this productive work will be if they oppose each other or even if I hope to say that it may happen that the metals will fall under each other's feet and make it impossible for them to lead the collective as well as others to the satisfaction of our viewers and listeners of this important electronic medium. We feel that it would not be right for us to have a Czech case, but that we will then deal with it without knowing how many times and that the people or citizens will be separated to expect what the national assembly will decide. I therefore believe that we will vote against Mr Čadež being voted today as Director-General. We believe that the prudence of Members and Members will prevail in order to take account of certain reasons that speak against the fact that today we will finally appoint Mr Chadje as Director-General. Time's enough. Within six months, we will be able to clear everything and then, or earlier, at the time of the recommitment. We believe that there is no need for us to make a final decision today, and I thank you for your attention, and I expect many of you to share my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we have tried to obtain all available information about the work of the Director General of Chad and the state of working conditions on RTV Slovenia, we have learned the views of employees in RTV Slovenia and also the views of members of the Council of RTV Slovenia media-mediated. We have also obtained information on the Court's internal accounts. We therefore first set out the position that the vote on the agreement to appoint Mr Chadez as Director-General should be postponed to a period after the final accounting report, following the final report of the Court of Auditors. In view of the fact that we have to decide on the vote already at this meeting, we have taken the final decision on the basis of the facts currently known, and we are particularly convinced that the journalists have expressed their views clearly and loudly, while the members of the RTV Slovenia Council have decided twice to vote in secret. The latter is understood as the fact that they did not want to take responsibility for the business plan and operation of Mr Čadež as Director-General of RTV Slovenia in the future. This business plan, however, is comprehensive. That's right. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will therefore vote against the agreement to appoint Mr Janez Čadež as Director-General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group he wants? Please, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, we haven't had that chance, like a client of young people. The youth party was simply one seat in the government and, of course, received all the information necessary to enable her to make the choice she had to make. I can't say at this point how we're going to decide, because we haven't had the chance to talk to people who want to talk to us. Some employees - employees' representatives more of a union - asked us to talk and we told them when it would be possible. Of course, we didn't know you were going to propose this agenda today. We believed that if the agenda was once adopted, it was adopted. Good. We expected that the employees or all interested, our Members, would be able to explain their views on this appointment. I think it's a very strange practice. Today and yesterday there was a lot of talk about how important it is to have rules of procedure, how the reduction of many options for discussing the rights of the opposition will not diminish. You said a lot of words about it today, and yesterday on TV, and I'm sure you'll say a lot more, but the real state of things turns out to be in this case. Mr Jelinčič does not at all base his agenda. It is completely wrong because such a point does not exist at all! And you are voting like you just voted. Because Mr Golobič has decided that it must be today! No, and you're the farmers on the chessboard, sorry to put it that way, and you have to do it. But, look, we don't think that's how it works. I'm sure there's enough of you. I'm sure there's enough of you. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No, ask Mr. Anderlich. [[...]] [[Presidents: Let's leave peace in the hall. Please!]] May I continue, Mr. Chairman? Thank you. Well, look, I think what you triggered today shows that the rules of procedure are irrelevant. It's about who has the power. Why don't we even break the rules, because you can actually do whatever you want every day! But we would like to warn, obviously also your coalition partner, that we are unable to discuss an important point of content. That's what we're warning you about. We are prepared to take the matter seriously, we have agreed with some people to explain their position to us, we have already said something about how we are likely to vote. But people want to alert us to some moments that we obviously don't have, and we don't have an interim report, and I don't know how the client of young people got it, but let's leave it. So the key question is whether we want to do this job well. We are before the vote, so we agreed in the parliamentary group, we said, okay, we will talk to those who want to move their positions, have the right to do so, but we are Members and we are obliged to listen to people's views. But we can't do this right now. By this decision, which you have adopted today, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you have in fact waived the right of the public concerned to present your views to the Members. And with that, I don't want to say we're in or out. As far as I'm concerned, you can read it. But it is simple hygiene in this House. If we keep this up, it doesn't matter what the rules of procedure are. No explanation is required to amend such an important point. When we want a break, we should explain to the disability why we want a break. So, I ask you to allow - not the opposition, but those who feel hurt, who want to give their opinion, not just to us - to tell that opinion. We'd do our best and maybe we'd be able to do it by tomorrow morning. I don't know what's so important that it has to be today. We can - I hope at least, I don't know if this will work - talk to those who want to talk to us, give them this opportunity to present their views, then we here in Parliament, tell our views about these things, that we are at least as informed about things as you are, and then we will be qualified to make decisions. That's not possible. As I say, if such practice continues with others, then we do not need Parliament at all. Not just the rules of procedure, not the parliament! So, I think that the Chairman would still suggest that we follow what the Rules of Procedure say. If this was the case for DeSUS on one occasion, it could be today considered a social Democratic party, a human party. But you're going through it quietly. In fact, I note that the possibilities for serious professional dialogue in this House are diminishing. What's important is what the vending machines do and what the servants suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u192	In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we discussed this issue, mainly under the impression of some public controversy, some events in Slovenia, some events in these rooms, these corridors and so on. We want the debate on this issue to end with the national assembly, the public institution and other public burdening these daily accusations on the left and right, explanations, prayers and various other matters. Under this impression, we have decided when we have adopted a position to support the proposal that has been made to make a consensus on this proposal today and here. For us, this was not the first meeting on this issue. We received a proposal to form a consensus or support the RTV proposal some ten days ago. We have prepared for the Quiaza meeting, and the National Assembly has this opportunity to draw its views before the working bodies and on the working bodies, to try to highlight in controversial discussions all those critical points that are important for a decision. For us it is not acceptable that argument which speaks of this, "we have not had time to consult, give us time to listen to everyone who wants to say something about it". It has been said much, said more than necessary, and in some points, I am sure, even too much when it is warned or feared on one side - that I do not use any other word - with the Czech situation as well as on the other hand, that it is necessary to follow the world's positions in the first, second, or still not know which decision. Of course, the law is perfectly clear and the responsibilities under this law are shared between the world and the national assembly. The world has done its work, not once, twice; we must do our part. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I stress and repeat, before the meeting of the Quiaza, we discussed issues related to this agreement, we came up with decisions that have been consolidated and upgraded in the coming days with some more data. It is not important for us to have a partial report from the Court of Auditors and it does not affect our decisions. It is questionable to talk about what assurances have been given, with all that is explained and so on, because these reports need to be discussed in the manner prescribed and, above all, I am talking about partial and also the answers, who is given and what these reports mean. We certainly do not follow the current influences that are, but those of our positions that I have just spoken about. It will not be difficult for us to make a decision on our conscience, on the belief that it is necessary to do for the public service of RTV what the representative of the founder must do: to be defined by the necessary agreement. Our conviction is that we cannot support this vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Potrč has the word, the combined list.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia gives Members of the National Assembly the duty and the right to give consent on a proposal to appoint the Director-General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. This consensus means that we have the right to give or to reject consent. This is our right or our duty, pleasant and unpleasant, which we must do. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, before the session of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission until then, we felt that it would be easier for us to decide if we were given any opportunity to have a preliminary opinion on certain issues. That is why we have asked you, colleagues and colleagues, from all the parties, by making a proposal to postpone the decision. Our proposal at the time did not get the majority needed and against them, with the exception of the Slovenian People's Party, which today is the same opinion as the fucks at the time, were voted by the Members of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, explaining that it is possible to make a decision and that there is no reason for anyone else to move forward - this is supposed to be us - and possibly wants to have new and additional information. We have accepted this fact without any excitement. Most of the time it was not on our side, most of the colleagues and colleagues in Kwiaz, under the powers of the parliamentary groups, not to tell me that only alone and without agreements, decided that decision-making was possible. We have said that this possibility exists, but let them not be angry with us, that we try another option. Since then, we have done everything, knowing that, with yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly, we will have to decide on this issue as soon as possible. We're prepared, we've talked, and we're capable of making decisions. Others could have done the same. The least we could do is have so much, I'd say, a memory of our own behavior that we wouldn't move every half hour and every half hour find different arguments for some interest that is currently present. This was also the reason for me and my fellow Members in my Group that it was not difficult for us to propose that this should be decided today. Since we were sure that this could not and should not be a problem for anyone, they said three days ago that everything was clear and that the National Assembly should approach the decision as soon as possible. Now for the content. We have said several times that we want to talk and that at this point we will not consider the individual opinion of any colleague or colleague to be, I would say, a breach of some of the agreements within the coalition or within the parliamentary group does not allow for a different vote. But mostly with a large majority, we are uniformly defined. We are determined not to support or give our consent to the proposal to appoint Mr Chadez as Director-General of RTV. Why? For reasons that we are convinced that this moment and different views on quality, on the work to date, and in particular on future work and future relations, are such that, in the face of the challenging tasks that Radiotelevision Slovenia has as a public institution of exceptional importance - not only material, also political and cultural - the Director-General in the event of such differences in the collective as they are or at least undisputedly publicly expressed, cannot do this work successfully. We do not want to embark on the reasons why this has occurred, nor on how many reasons there are for this on Mr Chad, nor on how many reasons there are for this on the part of others who have negatively assessed his work. However, the fact that it is said that this work is unacceptable, that it cannot be repaired in the future, gives us no hope that such a demanding collective - by the meaning and by the role it has - can successfully be guided in such a state. That's why it's better for us to decide. We believe that it is better that Mr Čadež does not get an agreement to make a public invitation to tender and find appropriate solutions as soon as possible. Perhaps after that time, which was not given to us for consideration, we will also know more about the Court’s report, perhaps by then we will know more about the programme, perhaps more objectively we will be able to assess the quality of business in last year. Some Members thought you could do this now. We may then find out what the director-general is, what is the function of editors and the like; in short, who is responsible for something, but then we will make easier and more peaceful decisions. Today - in my opinion, it is shared by most colleagues and colleagues with me - deciding differently than for the benefit of RTV Slovenia, which is to look for a new solution, is not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Peterle, New Slovenia has the floor. Please, wait a minute. I've already given my word to Mr. Peterlet, and then you'll have your word. Procedural, of course
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I will not perform here on behalf of any candidate. I will speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, especially given that this point against the agreement and past the decision was introduced by strong words on the so-called emergency. When circumstances are extraordinary, people usually take time to think, prepare, and make peace. Now, in accordance with this decision, which does not have a basis in the Rules of Procedure, for in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members may, at any time, require consultation within it, in accordance with Rule 72. It does not say: "before the decision" anywhere and I remember the practice that parliamentary groups, even one after the other, have been taking a dedication and practice is not law, our law is rules of procedure and here, by force of the situation, by force of this majority, which can also end the moon, we are discussing a very complex matter. I'd like it on behalf of our group to have some time to prepare. I believe that those of you who have used most of this valerian method to extend the time to decide on this matter, which is what you would like to make a decision about yesterday. There will also be talk of illegality in this regard. I am sorry that there is no such opportunity, and I would like to discuss such an important topic, given how it was, how strong the words were introduced, so that we could meet here in some working body of someone from the supervisory board of the public authority of RTV, about whom this house has its responsibility, to hear something about what was happening there and what is not to be known a little more when we decide how we will exercise the right to consent. Our parliamentary group, not the only one, has decided that I would also like to hear representatives of journalists who are critical of the former and current director. All of this thanks to this rolling stock is dropped and you will force, perhaps even with an additional procedural decision, decision-making today. Because anything is possible here. Now, a little bit to start with. How do I recall the subject of the election or the selection of the new director of RTV? Interestingly, in a matter as important as this, no lobbyist has visited our parliamentary groups. And I began to wonder how that the candidates of a candidate were not interested in our support, and perhaps what kind of voice we could influence. I was told that 18 votes were agreed on for a candidate who did not win and that the policy had been agreed. That's what was said. That's literally what I'm saying. And we have been waiting for this political agreement to work. Probably not the first in this country. Then it happened, the first session, in deciding on the Director at the RTV Council meeting, that the Director had already been confirmed in the first round. To the surprise of many, here I saw the dismayed faces of how this is possible, but in democracy it is also possible that something could pass, so-called 18 agreed political votes, and another candidate, I think he got, if I remember 8 votes, not 18, but 8. Look, and then it happened to a party that thinks they can take over everyone in this country with their votes, and there was another accident that this same candidate got three more votes in the next round. In the first round he got 13 out of 25 and then he got 16 out of 25. I'm not talking about Chad, I'm talking about the candidate, I'm not talking about the various problems that have been talked about and written and talked about and written. I'm talking about the context or the method accompanying the RTV director's election this time. In this regard, I must also mention the fact that, to me, politically significant or significant, one particular sign was that the Court of Auditors' report came, or was sent to RTV three days before the elections, and the day came, I think, on the day of the election itself. I really hope the Court of Auditors isn't a company called pizza-to-home at an hour's notice. People also have the right to think in this direction about how it is possible to find things just then and not a month earlier. Last time the former Minister for Culture, Mr Školč, said when he was alone, I think he initiated a procedure, but he ended up to some extent right at this stage. This is not the only case, we have other cases, someone gets a long interview, and the other gets an explanation in one of our newspapers about foreign exchange offences - after years, but at a time of time. So, I'm afraid, yes, I'd say what things to order with us if it's such a political interest - not that you can order, so that you can also get at the hour. Well, all these things are not comfortable with the context of our decision-making. There are more and more interests here, but it will be difficult for you to convince me that this is a Czech case. I do not see many parallels with the Czech case; however, there is likely to be something else in the debate. So, in the parliamentary group, we want to have more elements at our disposal when we decide on this. But we don't just want to work on suspicions. In fact, at the Kviaz meeting, some have strongly enhanced the significance of suspicion or doubt in this person. And so I asked earlier what the Supervisory Committee was doing, why - at least I don't know that I would get a report from Parliament, even though it says in the law we passed in this house that the Supervisory Committee should also report to Parliament. I would like to know what this oversight council has found; what is being said about the decision to revise. I would like to know whether a former director has applied or whether any procedures have been initiated or if everything has been timed only on the day or the time of the election. So, no matter how the candidate is written and how these interests are spread around, I would like this house to be free from any blemish in the decision on consent, whether it is decided today or tomorrow or tomorrow. In terms of who is who, I think we should make some clean wine here, or we should get a little more serious about it. RTV is a public institution. As a national assembly, we have some options, some rights, or some duties. Here was passed a law establishing the 25-member Council of RTV, in which the policy or directly elected from the National Assembly of five representatives is said to be 25%, not one fifth, 20%, five out of twenty. For me, the question is what it means to weight or weight more, or to elect a director, as it is written - I am talking about a model, not a person - from this world where most representatives have so-called civil society, both universities, culturers, churches, various organisations and so on. I'd like enough reason to go against what this world has already decided twice. I don't want to get into a situation, even if what was said on Kviaz, if you do, because it can come up again, but let's look in the middle, we'll see what's going on with that suspicion. Let's say that the shadow of the new invitation to tender tells the same candidate one more time and that he gets at least 13 votes again - are we going to hit him again? Are we going against civil society again? I'm putting it in principle. I'm saying, let's forget about the writing of the former or current director. There is a very sensitive question for me here for civil society. So why do we have the world? Or else I'll ask myself. If we undermine the world’s decision, then one would expect the world to retreat if we undermine his election. Now tell me, gentlemen, if there's an interest in this, there's probably something to say about this. I don't even want to go to the debate I'm listening to on the ground about this TV, whether it's okay or not. I'm not interested in saying something about this or that director who isn't responsible for the program. We are looking at a programme in which we identify in the political field express bias - one attitude towards one government, a different attitude towards another government. One is always in company with the other when the new government is acting alone in the Study at 5 p.m. - this was not the case before. I could count a thousand things that talk about the bias of this television and this radio. I wouldn't go that way. So I am interested in how we, as a national assembly with the right and the option of agreement, will define the attitude towards civil society, which we have no influence on, because it defines its own people, who will be delegated to this world of RTV, where we have 20%. I think this is very principled and very serious, but also a very difficult issue of our democracy. Speaking of which, of course, I don't think anyone would understand me if they did. If anyone knows about such matters, he must use the pathways that lead to solving this problem, and he must, I would say, do so on the moral and legal side of the matter. However, I would not like to be, or our entire parliamentary group, a prisoner of some suspicion, where the last time it said that he might have done something wrong. Let's get this straight. But this can be clarified with our consent or without our consent. I would not like to be a substitute law enforcement institution because certain things did not work. Once again, I'd like to hear someone from the supervisory board say what they're going to say about this business. The last time one of the journalists said to me, "Do you know that this gentleman destroyed some documentation relating to a client who didn't pay 300,000 marks for propaganda before some elections"? Look, what am I supposed to do with this message?Oh, my God! I asked if he had been reported or acted. I can't, on the basis of what I got in my ear, now I can't make a decision about consent. It's all the information you want, or it's all the information you want. But what's interesting is that they're all coming now. These sins are supposed to be five years old. Why, though, did nothing happen to the subject if they knew for five years that something was meant to be destroyed? See, I am not in favour of this house taking on any other functions than those relating to its role in relation to a public institution called RTV Slovenia. I would like, on behalf of our Group of Members, to adhere to all domestic and other rules and to make a fair decision. I also protest, Mr Vice President, against your will because you're sorry, sir! [[...]] In any case, it is the matter of Mr Vice-President, because I think we are now in one of the so-called illegal proceedings. I mean, it doesn't make sense because they run you over. Mr Vice-President has put to the vote something quite different, as proposed by Mr Jelinčič, but we have accepted this peacefully. He said he meant something else. Look, if this is how we're going to take our decisions, then nowhere is going to be good and I don't want to share the responsibility for such matters. However, on behalf of the whole group, I would like to say that because the LDS did not happen to the Director in the first round, we will not serve in the same way as the LDS wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much, fellow Peterle. It's 18 and 2 minutes. Can I have a meeting with Comrade Jelinčič? Thank you very much. It's 18 and 2 minutes, and I think we should respect some of the rules that we agreed on if there is no emergency situation that the National Assembly is working between 10:00 and 6:00. Of course, it just makes sense. I haven't finished my session yet. [[...]] If we believe that by voting, if there are no more debaters, we can conclude this meeting, it would make sense to conclude the meeting. I'm asking if there's a lot of applications for discussion. A lot of people reported. Then I suggest I suspend the session at 6 p.m. I've seen my colleague Jelinčič, and before I conclude this meeting, I will also give my word because I have to put it in order of procedure. Before I give you my word, I believe that all the conditions are met, that the normal national assembly continues with the interrupted 32nd point, to go to the 28th point and then to the agreement forward. Comrade Jelinčič, do you have a different suggestion than this? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u198	Mr. President! I do, I intended to make a procedural proposal earlier, and the Vice-President did not place me. I am making a procedural proposal to extend today's meeting until the end of this agenda item. Please put to the vote my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u199	This proposal is in accordance with the rules of procedure and I will put it to the vote, as we have put forward all such business proposals, without discussion. All I did was say what the deal was, and the Members and Members of Parliament will decide by vote. I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal from my colleague Jelinčič to conclude today with this item on the agenda, regardless of all the breaks and everything that would happen in the meantime. Is that right? Okay. I put this proposal to the vote. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 20 supported by the proposal and 36 not. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] Tomorrow, the National Assembly will continue its meeting at 10 a.m. with the end of the 32nd. Thank you for your cooperation.
