ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Davorin Terčon, Dr. Michael Brejc, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Roman Jakič, Maximiljan Lavrinc, Jožef Jerovšek, Janko Weber, Bogomir Vnučec, Feri Horvat, Janez Janša, Alojz Peterle, Alexander Merlo, Jurij Malovrev, Marko Diaci, Milan Kopuzar, Janez Podobnik for the start of the session, Jože Ašič, Janez Cimperman, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Cyril Pucko, Anton Delak, Sašo Pece, Joseph Špindler, Maria Possonec and Ana Marija Tisovic. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Given that many of our colleagues are missing today, I respectfully ask that at least those who are here, with our presence, we try to ensure the conclusion of today's session and the smooth continuation of work. I ask you politely to insert the cards. We're detecting a presence. I note that 49 Members and Members are present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, which I welcome very much! Today's follow-up to the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration OF THE DISCONTINUED 13. Agenda items, draft media law. The meeting will then turn to the 16th item, i.e. amendments to the report on companies, companies and institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to the prohibition of operations with the State, public undertakings and public institutions, and then to the consideration of the ratification proposals, from 17 to 24 points. In the course of the meeting, the assembly will address the remaining unfinished items on 24th, 30th and 32nd agenda items and then move on to the remaining unfinished items, on the agenda. Yesterday, we concluded with the consideration of the amendment to Article 113, which is contained in the review of the amendments on page 41. We have yet to vote on the amendment to Article 113. This is an amendment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by its mother's working body. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 27-10 against. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 114 into the debate and decision-making process. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič's debate and Mr Gaspari's consideration of Article 113 were essentially linked to Mr Bajuk's debate, as well as to my debate at the time of the decision under Article 14 of this Act. Both recalled some of the same questions that we had received in previous discussions inconclusive and incomplete answers from government representatives. The questions raised relating to the competences of the agencies or agencies were continued or extended in the debate in Article 113 with questions of red tape or decision-making. Thus, questions related to rationality, which Dr. Bayuk and I have already warned about, continue. But it's kind of hard to meddle a hundred articles of the law and delete about 20% of them. Now, at the time of the consideration of Article 113 or 114, we note that everything is not as simple as it was in some way presented and imagined. I think what's going on in the consideration of this law, namely that somehow unexamined sales solution for, I can say, dry gold, just so that some 30% to 40% of the content is transferred to the newly established ministry, I think it's unacceptable. In some ways, it is also impossible for Members to make these decisions. In the framework of the final vote, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia will propose at least these two additional decisions, which you have already reached at the table. What we are proposing should, in fact, have been on the table a long time ago, and we should be able to make decisions, not only politically, but also professionally. We believe that not only are these oral explanations, which are in fact forgotten in time, but we believe that it would be reasonable or even necessary to give somehow accompanying written documents. We believe that Mr Gaspari's debate and Mr Jelinčič's discussion in the preceding paragraph was fully justified. Also below all these articles relating to part of the Agency, the Socialist Party's Group does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? As no, we are moving on to a decision, so I am making an amendment to Article 114. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 26 votes to 10. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 115. The amendment supports the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes to 9. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 116. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 9. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 117. The amendment is proposed by the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 9. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 118, of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 9. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 119, of which the Government is proposing. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 9. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 120. Under one is the amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport; under two is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body, with the note that the amendment committee has made reasonable support and has tabled its amendment, so if the amendment is adopted under one, there is no need to vote on this amendment and the title is given to the content of the article; under three is the amendment, the amendment proposed by Rudolf Petan, the Government of the Amendment does not support it, with the remark that this amendment is meaningfully equivalent to the amendment under four, the proposed amendment by Zmaj Jelinčič, the Government of the amendment under four opposes the mother's labour body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The amendment of the Committee to Article 120 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide that the broadcaster shall pay a fee for the dissemination of programme content. However, the amount of this fee shall be determined according to the size of the area and the number of inhabitants in the covered area. Given that, in a developmental sense, we have many areas in Slovenia that are socially and demographically weak, and we are extremely neglected, I ask if we can contribute to the expansion of this activity in these areas by means of such an amendment. These areas will pay relatively few of these fees, and this means that the dissemination of programmes in these areas will also be linked to this. I therefore propose that the National Assembly reject these two amendments and leave this provision, which is in Article 120. For I fear that these areas will in some sense be even more lagging behind in development than is already present at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I would ask Members to support the amendment of the committee, because it was solely on the proposal of the secretariat that the law be in line with the legislation. If anyone wants to say more, we can also ask for the opinion of the secretariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	He wants a representative of the secretariat? Mrs. Bitenc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A respected choir! I would like to clarify that part of the amendment actually came from our point of view, namely that it is always necessary for the law to define itself in a concrete and clear way until public duties are fixed, which is a charge. From this point of view, also on the basis of our comment and through the amendment, the government has entered the criteria. From the point of view of the Constitution, of course, the amendment is much more appropriate and compatible with the system. However, as for the criteria, which should be the basis for determining the amount of this fee, of course, this is another thing and this is a matter of suitability. This is decided on the basis of expert and political assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask the Government's representative and hear his opinion whether they will not be able to rule out or at least slow down the development of these activities in areas of demographic risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič made a statement and would then give the floor to the representative of the government to explain to Mr Sok. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it makes sense to support the first amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. At the same time, it is also appropriate to support the fourth amendment to add "and Article 83, second paragraph" in the third paragraph. In particular, they are broadcasters of local and regional television programmes connected to the network, as they have obtained permission to disseminate programming content via the radio spectrum, which are not selected as individual broadcasters, but rather as a network of broadcasters. Well, and the permits show that they were issued for the network, but for use by the individual issuer, which means identity with Articles 77 and 79 of the Act. That's why this amendment of ours makes a lot of sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, please, and then Mr Dorian Marshic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the network is concerned, each issuer is specifically authorised and issued and additional fees are charged to the issuer, to the individual issuer, not to the network. If each individual publisher is already involved in this, then we do not see the sense that the network is involved. However, as regards the observation that some areas that are already at risk may be solved in two ways. We propose to leave such a dictatorship as is proposed by agreeing with the Committee's proposal. We believe, however, that perhaps we can add an article or paragraph to the third reading areas at risk that would be more detailed. We also have local and regional programmes in highly developed areas. If we let this go, then we're actually giving up one very important source for Article 123. In order - either to rule with its sub-legislative act, as stated in this Article, or in the proposal for a third reading - there may be an additional explanation or an additional sentence to speak of the demographically threatened and otherwise affected areas. We do not object to the fact that areas that are truly demographically threatened or socially affected and otherwise subject to the same criteria as those of highly developed areas of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please, then Mr. Sok. [[Mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your answer to the government representative. So if this is true, as he has now said, that the government, by means of a sub-law, will settle this matter in such a way that these funds, in equal or equal amounts, will return to these less developed areas, then I can say that this amendment is supported, but then we will also be careful if the government actually regulates it, as the government representative here has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	Madam President, I give up on the explanation of the government's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshich. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we are voting on the first amendment, of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. I apologize for the adoption of the amendment under 1 but there is no need to vote on the amendment of the Government. We are also voting on the amendment under 3, which is proposed by Rudolf Petan. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 17 to 22. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the third amendment has not been adopted and therefore there is no need to vote on the fourth amendment, which makes sense. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 121, of which the Government is proposing, the mother labour body supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 8. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 121 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 7. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Thus, we are moving to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 122, of which the Government is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 6. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to the title of Section II. a chapter proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that it is not enough to support only audiovisual media, but it is essential that we also support printed media and that we also propose that the title "audiovisual" be deleted from the title. We estimate that there is also a need for sufficient room for plurality in this area. To suggest that you support us in these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you very much. This amendment is, as a dominatrix, a significant change in this chapter. The article brings the so-called proposed fund for media pluralisation to the previous government, although it is no longer called that at this stage. The media pluralisation fund was introduced into the law by the previous government, with an explanation which we could hear in one version also at yesterday's debate on the Jurčič Prize, that the Slovenian space needs the opposition press, that it is reduced to just some, to a few, to Mag, the radio station of the Fireplace, and to the New Magazine, a subsidized new magazine. Because the current press mainly masters the so-called forces of continuity. The media pluralisation fund at that time had financial implications in the context of about a billion. It is intended to finance newspapers, possibly weeks, in a later version of audiovisual media. In any event, political projects, as the Fund is supposed to be managed by an administrative committee composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties and its chairman should be a minister of culture. As it is said, later in this form, as we now face it, the government or the parliamentary group has supplemented it with electronic media. At the same time, it has made some confusion if this amendment was supported because it would have dealt with a seemingly one fund, but in fact with two funds - a fund that is now proposed as a fund for media pluralisation and is in some way a consequence of the implementation of the European regulation, which even promised years ago in a request for a transitional period, but is also in a nominal sense quite a problem, since there is a new Article 123a attached to Article 123a, which should not and could not stand in that sense. But, however, it is necessary to say why this amendment should not be supported. For the first time, because it is certainly not productive to finance activities that should be regulated themselves, it is, of course, regulated in both business and programme terms. Secondly, because Slovenia has already been burned at least twice by attempts to budget the journals. Because newspaper activity must drive the logic of the free market and the logic of independent journalism, which we have enacted or are now legislating with this law. That is also because this law brings us, as has already been said, another fund that has been ordered by the need for new obligations of European legislation. This regulation - although I hope in general satisfaction - brings a mandatory increase in its own artistic, educational, economic, cultural, scientific and other content in the field of electronic, not printed media. That is also because we would somehow like to protect ourselves from spiritual and capital imperialism and, of course, also the influence of the most powerful continent, and because we want at least a small monopoly of our own content. At the same time, because plurality is not achieved by a field where there are blacks on one side, on the other side of white figures, but by the design of such figures that know with appropriate education, engagement and also discernment to think with their head and also with their wallet. In addition, because experience in countries where, in the indirect way proposed by this fund, in other forms is very poor, but with similar funding methods. The countries that have this type of funding, I will say, the dedicated way of financing the "political" press, is being beaten up or erased from their programmes also because they find that they are throwing money out the window, for projects that no one actually wants to read. Besides, at least personally, I think it's the only amendment to this law that has a political connotation. There is no article in this law that would have a political impact on it, and in this case it would certainly have been exchanged for four years - the term of office of members of the board of directors, the representatives of political parties is tied to four years - and in this period journalists would probably have cloned themselves. Therefore, these amendments to this amendment are somehow not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The three Members also joined in the following order, Mr Janez Drobnič, then Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Andrej Bajuk. I apologize for wanting Mr Tanko's replica, and we would discuss it later. Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I think that this is the second or third key point of this law, where there are these big differences and shows. In any case, the media sector is that or the media are actually those who, in addition to some way of documentary material to a large extent or to a crucial extent form the image of time, the image of the situation, of life, also create the image of history and somehow point this way into the future. I think it is very important that these images and this reflection are as credible and consistent as possible. All or a large majority of us want to have real information, real conclusions and assumptions on which we will build and judge and make decisions. It is also important that we have a plural media space created by people of different social, cultural, religious, visual, professional, as well as other circles, and that they have the opportunity to present their views and findings. Therefore, media users must have the option, say, in some way of cross-checking everywhere where we estimate that information about events is incomplete, modified or subordinated to certain options, views or targets. The provision of plural space can be achieved if there is political will, and that is the will of the majority. In particular, this should in some way have an interest in providing everyone with quality information and including inclusion in the design of the economic, political, social and other forms of Slovenia. In fact, this is in some way the declared objective of all policies and options, including those gathered here in this Parliamentary Chamber. I do not think we can talk about the plural media area if we find that it is excluded by a relatively large group and is uneven in the design and presentation of its views. We are hardly talking about a democratic and plural society, if it exists or in some way maintaining the media exclusion of larger groups as well. The media space may be plural if there is no express ownership, either individual or linked, of interest, that there is no dominant market share. Above all, it can be plural if access to the media is also ensured to other stakeholders, not least to political groups. If we look at some other areas. In these areas, the country has also seen problems in some way, in the area of economy, demographics, such as film. It has also set up or is trying to establish mechanisms to somehow eliminate this structural equality or to ensure that structural equality is not eliminated. We estimate that in the field of media too, a step towards greater plurality should be taken, and that, as in the above cases, the state should in some way establish mechanisms to encourage and ensure the effective independence of the media and on an equal and equal footing, that is to say a balanced treatment of areas that are important for today, including the past, and even more for the future. We estimate that the media fund is a suitable form or way to take a step towards greater plurality, broader and more comprehensive treatment of problems and the course of today. We also assess that, as in some other areas, the dedicated fund has achieved its purpose and has also made certain changes. Finally, we believe that more competition is also needed in the field of media, not only within the same circle, which offers always the same or, above all, the same views and solutions. In some ways, it is necessary to give an opportunity to others who view things differently and who see them differently. We are confident that the content and critical view of it will expand. This will also create new opinions and initiatives that will contribute to faster development and broader and cultural dialogue. Last but not least, we estimate that the media fund for Slovenian society is much more important than the film fund, although we do not deny that we are also going to the film more carefully and more seriously. It is this amendment of ours that somehow resolves the proposaler's dilemma, which was stated in the first reading's explanation, to somehow break this problem of monopolies, concentration, market shares and other shares. I think the position should also allow the opposition to look at us sometimes. If I end up. I am convinced that we all have a common desire to enable the media to become more materially richer, broader and more independent and equally critical of problems, to the individual, to the event, whether the latter position or opposition, left or right. As far as nomotechnics are concerned, I think this is a minor problem, and I think the Secretariat is capable of technicalizing these things. As far as cloning is concerned, I think we really want to avoid this proposal in some way and to somehow establish at least some unclonal media stuff in this area. Above all, there is a critical field of print media, because here, in fact, all the important media have become fully owned and are somehow working forward, I would say, from the same core, from the same centre. That is why I think it makes sense that these things are supported and that we are allowed to have the political option that I belong to receive adequate media support and attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan also wishes to replicate Ms Majde Shirce's performance. Then you will discuss Mr Drobnič and Dr Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Our desire is certainly good and quality and well-covered media space, which takes into account different opinions, plural, is said to have multiple views. Allow me to remind you of the events of the last days when we talk a lot about impatience. I'm not getting into this, but there's a lot of talk about impatience, but all of a sudden we figured it out. Fourteen days ago or three weeks ago, there was no intolerance in Slovenia, and then suddenly we all found it. All the media have called for intolerance in Slovenia. And I'm asking you, if we have such a good media space, well covered, how come we didn't figure it out before. Now, all of a sudden, we find out. It is said that there is still a niche in this coverage of our media space that could have previously identified certain phenomena that occur in our society. Impatience is one of them. After all, everyone is likely to know that the media is shaping attitudes, feelings, opinions, and attitudes. If we could not find out at that time, then it means that there is only something else that can be improved. I'm not saying this place is bad, I'm not going into it, I'm not going to comment on it, but I'm just wondering, if everything was so good, then it shouldn't surprise us. Second. Mrs Shirco, with all due respect, would really like to remind you something - that black and white figures, as she mentioned, are not always bad. After all, chess has black and white. So, then maybe I can expect, after you've thought about it, that you'll suggest that we introduce some other, maybe pinks, or, I don't know, mixed figures to make it more rainbowy. Sometimes it is necessary and needs to be accepted, as well as the view that other countries are wiping out similar projects of different funds [[I'm thinking about this particular case.]] . I agree, but they had to bring him in first. And we don't even allow this opportunity to see whether things can turn out right or wrong, it is said, we are already oppressing her in the ranks and then we are surprised at the various manifestations of impatience and, if I remind you of what I have already said to the advocate, about the various prizes of the Horns and the like. It's strange that then these things surprise us so much. You also mentioned that you are against spiritual and capitalism. I think that's what it was said. Okay, okay, I don't mind, I agree with you. This is where I support you. All you have to do is be plural here. You must admit that this political imperialism, for example, in its own kind, is not good in its own country. After all, who rapes us with various Esmeraldas and so forth, Esmeralda is nothing to blame if I am merely cariculating or making a mockery. But we accept it uncritically, if I can just replicate it so that I don't call back later. Moreover, I cannot agree with the argument that there is no article that somehow shows or defines political influence. That's not true. As soon as we are with the various committees, with various mandates, saints, then we have immediate political influence. It is here that irony, the irony of our political space, that those who wanted to clear up a matter have turned to Parliament, which is a representative of the people, but in a political sense. I don't think there's any more top political power than there is in Parliament. There's pluralism, political pluralism. Here, thank God, it works. This is said to be a political impact, all of which is linked to the human resources influences that are then transferred to the implementation of this law. Therefore, to say that there is no article that has political influence is not true and that is not true. It is therefore right that at least in Parliament we have different thinkers who can deny it or say it. I hope that the new Rules of Procedure will not change that the replicas are not allowed or will be so limited that they will virtually be gone. After all, I would say that democracy is also a pluralism of opportunity. Not only can you give your opinion somewhere, but it is also appropriate that someone publish it to you, that someone print it to you, so that, of course, one wide space can learn about this information. If you don't have a chance, it's worth less. If the media doesn't follow the work of the National Assembly, we can say whatever we want here, and no one will know what was going on here. That is said, pluralism of opportunity is also needed. This fund, which we talk so much about, is also one of those that gives opportunities. After all, it is not that easy to come to the market with one medium. You've got to have a chance to do that. It's not just that they say, "You've got a market here and write something, print it and start treachery." It's easy to tell those who are essentially, I'll say, even though if everything was in line with the law, they inherited what the state or society -- as we said -- built 10, 20, 30, 40 years. It's very simple. However, it was difficult for someone who was even banned from working, banned, to even think until ten years ago, not even to have a medium. Today you talk about it, okay, here you have the market and work. Allow me one parable that I think fits very well with the present moment. This is as if we were to share some goodness with everyone, and they would say, first we will eat yours, and then each of our own. You know, it just doesn't work that way. It would be right if the other situation, which, while prevailing at this time, was the will of the people, was not obvious, but it would also be right for this majority to realize that there are hungry, hungry information that is needed for such or other assistance and that they would not be treated impatiently. Impatience can also be in the media space. The impatience of the majority to think differently and to the possibility that they would also express their opinions and their thoughts.It is also a kind of intolerance, but we talk less about it. We're talking about another, we just want to see another, and here we'd like to just wipe them out and run them over. Intolerance is not just for those coming from other countries, we probably have intolerance among ourselves in different areas. It's one of those areas. Competition must also be among different thinkers, not only within the same house, within the same block, within the same political definitions, but within different thinking frameworks. This is also one of the most important parts of competition. This should also be taken into account and the intention of the proposer of this amendment is also in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, then Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Mr. Tone Partlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. There are two reasons why we should introduce this article, these provisions, as regards the media. The first is to improve the plurality of the media space, and the second, of course, given the smallness of our country and the small possibilities of creating works of copyright, including the acquisition of adequate capital and money to develop at all, is to increase production, audiovisual, copyright and so on. The first and second objectives are important for Slovenia. We need one and the other. In view of the fact that this part of the plurality of the media space has now been particularly challenged, I would like to refer a little more to this issue. We do not want this article, nor do I imagine that we will be creating right media in order to have a balanced space. Not through that. I expect, of course, that right media will develop in the same way and that a democratic structure should also be established. That's necessary. This is what we want to get to the media, which are neutral, which gives quality neutral information that can communicate comments, but these comments do know that they are comments. That's the problem with our society. That is why we need the Fund in particular. Recent events have just shown that the media, especially those printed, react in a panic. We have the panic reaction of the media, once to the left, once to the right, without any critical distance, without a sober view of reality. The other thing is patterning. The patterning of events occurring in one or the other printed media shall be perpetuated. Capital and political extortion. Yes, I agree with my forerunners. There is in Slovenia. But I tell you, these two are hiding in Slovenia. Capital and political is the same in Slovenia. Protagonists are one and the same. Citizens, of course, then expect at least public media, television, a different image, different information, credible information. Then we run into a problem again. As such, television, of course, cannot be expected to be right or left, depending on which government outfit it is running or which position it is sitting in Parliament and then, of course, insert its profile. No, no, no. Television would be expected to be neutral as far as orientation is concerned, visual or whatever. But when we look at what is, what is the suit set up on television now, nothing has changed since the year, I don't know, we have the same suit as 12 years ago. These are, in fact, facts that suggest that this Article is needed and that a fund is needed. Even countries that behave with the plurality of the media and with the real neutrality of the public media, the public media, have this. Once we have reached such a level, we can also end this article. But now in our democracy, whatever it is, it is badly needed. So Slovenia needs a media mirror. Also to identify right or left media. Now the left media will be identified first because they're mostly just left-handed. That'll be necessary. That is why, of course, I am committed to bringing this article into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Bajuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Of course, this article has its history. What we are deciding today did not come about yesterday was also part of a proposal that was sent to the National Assembly by the government, which I had the honour of chairing. Why did we stand up for this? The key issue is that the proposal to propose an intervention by the State in an area that is certainly questionable. As far as this is concerned, I admit that there can certainly be different views. You will not hear from me many times that I will defend an intervention of the state in a wide range of areas, but at least in such a sensitive one. Why did we decide that? The quality of our democracy and political culture in Slovenia are key in all this proposal. This decision - you may not think so - is crucial and may be one of the most important decisions that this National Assembly will make. Why? Just because the quality of our democracy and political culture is in play in Slovenia. Democracy, of course, is based on the principle of the consent of the rulers. Without the consent of the rulers, there is no democracy. However, that consensus has some meaning and real application requires informed people. In Slovenia, unfortunately and still too much, we see the remains of the totalitarian past, in which transparency was a completely foreign concept. There are still too many political forces in our society that are persistently opposed to the principle of transparency, which is increasingly accepted by the rest of the world, although it is not so everywhere. However, this transparency or transparency is much more than a passive abandonment of technologically enabled fortitude of the information age. Transparency has an essential component, and this is a desire for better information. And here is the key question that this national assembly must face: whether or not there is a political will to create opportunities for our people, all citizens and citizens to have access to different views than those currently prevailing in our media space. This is a new dynamic alternative to state coercion, which modern political scientists refer to as regulation through detection - or freely translated, "restraint by evolution". That's exactly what he needs and how our society is! That things come on a day to open windows once and for all, so that we better understand that our citizens and citizens will have a better understanding and a more frank representation of everything that is going on. Regulatory through detection! And that's not something our country should be afraid of. Because, finally, what about democracy if not the consent of the rulers? I propose that we identify ourselves today and accept this possibility, although this is an intervention by the State in this area. That's not new. Other societies, where democracy is much more rooted than we are, know such solutions. Surely we can have different views if the specific indents in this Article are correct or can be improved. We are open to any proposal to improve this. But there is a principle in the game, and for this principle, we are taking a strong stand. Such a solution is known by the Scandinavian countries, in which no one can question their political culture and deeply rooted democracy. That's what the neighbouring Austria knows. Slovenia will not have such a democracy as I am sure we all want it if we do not create such a possibility that the media space will be much more open than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Four other colleagues took part in the debate, following the following order. First Mr Tone Partljič, then Mr Leo Kremjar, followed by Mr Jelko Kacin, Mr France Tsukati and then Mr Sok. First of all, Mr. Tone Partlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	I actually wanted to go to the replica before, but somehow now I've listened to these discussions, and maybe it's more of a replica. What they said before my colleagues, especially Mr Bajuk, I will not say that I will replicate in terms of expressing my concerns about their arguments, I will not say my opposition in full. [[...]] First of all, I remember very well that in 1991 we adopted a similar law, justified by the then Prime Minister, Mr Lois Peterle. I could say that I've heard all this before, by saying that maybe at the time it was politically more acute, it wasn't, like, a newspaper. But with bigger problems or much more closed was the Family, the Fireplace, but in the meantime a number of other things happened, from Maga to much more. However, the then three-house assembly, which was a multilateral, supported the media democratisation fund. Our objections were similar back then, but, as it was said, they were not opposed because it was a really different time. Maybe even on the outside it's decent, and many writers say I'll start writing for the newspapers again, because we have a Slovenian, and we have a Job, we have a space of politics that the Slovenian people knew through history, even before the Second War. But look, despite this agreement, it didn't work out with the Slovenian. Nobody pushed him, he wasn't quality enough. And he also in some ways committed one death and conflict, which were internal, which was not a left or a political compulsion. It is possible to listen to what you said, Mr Bayuk, in part to one desire that it might be visible. Maybe there's no special effort. But I don't think we're barefoot at all. You yourself, when you had a government, some money was set up and one committee of very reverent people, although they were politically more of the right hands that had somehow examined the media. Without defending Slovenian media, I can give you the evening in my hands now, but I don't know where you think it's from, say, extremely biased or leftist. After all, Jurčič's prizes, anchored by slightly more unconventional journalists, more right-wing journalists, receive from the Evening every year. I, when I watch my colleagues jump into the "louft" if there's something wrong with us, I think there's a lot of times in the evening. I'm gonna be a little mean to be more understanding. Gogol wrote for the motto of his play: "Don't be angry at the mirror if your face is ugly." With us both political options, whether left or left, and even more so, I think the right one, which feels in every way disadvantaged, is constantly angry with the media. In fact, self-inflicted procedures are not really asked. Even all the events, the rift in your government, all the crises that have been, have been objective. The media just grabbed, they can panic, they can be happy: but no! As a matter of fact, Gogol already knew why he wrote it. We actually have it, because I'm telling you, it's similar. With us, no one will admit that the media are fond of us, and I have something to read about if I want something bad to read about my colleague, or about Anderlich, and I can quickly take the Maga collection and find in it what I would never dream of, and even some madness appears around him, which is long ago completely inaccurate. But it doesn't matter. It seems to me that I am not saying that the new magazine has really played its part in the spiritual space. It's a question of how much I've been a fighter for the new magazine, I've never been a opponent. I was also in such places that I had to vote on this and I voted in favour, although the delegates in Maribor ordered me against - I think for the establishment. It has made its space, is now more powerful in one spiritual field, and the left has not as intelligent and as spiritually rich a magazine, literary and essayistic as the New Magazine. I don't feel, and living well, it's spreading, expanding the number of its publications, and it seems to me that the country being treated is extremely tolerant and I think, of course, fine. Also by number of titles for the subsidy, etc. I almost don't think this world would be so short-handed. The plurality of the spirit is a process. It'll take time for us to get used to the plurality of our thinking. Of course, because it doesn't even work with any decision when I said I already had a decree to confirm that it didn't work out. That way, I don't think we're gonna make it. We will achieve something else, similar to bets, attacks on the left and right if we consider that representatives of parliamentary parties will run this fund. Will it be reassembled in proportion to election success, or will we repeat our stories there? So if political parties lead this fund, I really think they have enough power to otherwise regulate democratisation and plurality. There is no need for a special fund for this; I think that policy has another place. In short, not to speak against, but I am sure that this success that you are talking about in this way, even in the present spirit of this democratisation, will not be, because, as it is said, it is a process that I do not think is going so badly. There's no neutral TV either. I don't know-- not even a neutral journalist, I hope not. [[...]] I'm not interested in a neutral journalist; I'm interested in his position. You're right if that's what you think you both need to have access to. But I absolutely agree with that. They must have both approaches, and perhaps not just two others, because after all I do not know what others will discuss, it is also a question of whether it is fair, therefore, if we want to support this, to be in line with the representatives of the parliamentary parties. Maybe they need the most space just non-parliamentary customers who don't have a chance at all. In short, what you're saying to win this, I don't trust it, and I don't think it's going to end well. We're going to have a new resort of political conflict, instead of achieving what, in my humble opinion, you want. However, I agree with the fund, as it is conceived in the law, because I think, Mr Secretary of State, that we are also burdening some of the other things with this: for example, the film fund law, where you accounted for this 5%, and I don't think there will be a need for this discussion. But what I think the colleagues who spoke before would get is either a "one canteen" that would be more right or sometimes a left when there's another relationship, it seems to me that we're not going to get anywhere with this fund. You think it's a good idea that the state of action, too, doesn't seem right to me. And it seems to me that, on the one hand, it must be taken into account that Slovenian society, however, was also different through history, which, of course, knew uniformity. But we all sang "Friend Tito, we swear to you" and we had tears when we met, that's true. But we have never had phenomena like either some with Tudjman or some with Milosevic; we have already "professed" to set up any Slovenian policy in this way, to idolize it and to have such movements. It seems to me that it is simply a political space in a good process, that we hide for the media many times, left and right, and all of our own interests, and I do not think such a fund for printed media is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. They wish to replicate Mr Partljič in the following order: first Mr Drobnič, then Mr Sok and then Mr Petan. The replica is limited to five minutes. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. So much for information: the rewarder from this Jurčič fund was by some strange coincidence removed from the position of the journalist. This already shows how independent this medium is. The second thing I wanted to mention to Mr Partlich is this. Once again: Slovenia needs mirrors to be recognized and a mirror could be created and recognized through this. How this democracy is with us and how we did not create Tudjman, there is little need to look at how one and the other things are going on in both countries; I think there are no particular serious differences in this, as regards media power and so on, but also as regards the duration of the rule period, I think it is completely comparable, one and the other. So I wouldn't agree with you on that. But it doesn't matter at all. It is therefore important in this case not to create left or right media because of plurality, but to create a credible medium, with good information, transparent information, which will promote democracy, but not pull aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. So to Mr Partljič, who listed the right media, I would like to say that there are so many that we can almost count them on the fingers of one hand. Let him go and look into one list and see which one of these right-wing media he can get and what number they're represented in. As for his quotation from Gogol, I would tell him that the problem with Slovenia is that it has looked like a circus in Slovenia: they distort the image many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. So I'm going to be very brief with my replica, and I'm going to point out three things to Mr. Partlich. Compared to New Magazine - I think it's a little hypocritical, not to say misleading. Allow me to ask you, Mr Partljič, how often is the New Magazine coming out and what kind of stuff it has. Is this some publication of the widest dimensions that people read every day? That's one. Secondly, this is supposed to be an officer, more of a right direction: who says that there must be right direction? We never said that. But I would say, say, an officer of the same odds that everyone can introduce themselves. That's another thing. And thirdly, I like Gogol very much and I am glad that we are probably here in the same opinion as Gogolja. And I agree with you, Mr Partljič, not to be angry at the mirror if the image is not real, whether it is a bit distorted, whether it is beautiful or not, as I do not like it. Just Mr. Partlič, there's something I'd like to ask you: What happens if you don't have a mirror? If you don't have a mirror, if you don't have a chance to see your image, then what? And that's where the problem comes in. And that's the whole point of this amendment. If you don't have a mirror, Gogol hasn't answered that yet, because that's what we have to answer ourselves, and that's the problem. And that's what I wanted to warn you about, right in the mirror. We'd like to have a mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A replica of Mr. Petana, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Yes, I agree. You wrote that this is a journal and, of course, I compared the magazine that comes out once a month, but it has many publications and I think it is now with the newspaper - but it is also a bit more filled up. I was talking about the spiritual space. So to democratise, actually, this side of the intellectual right, if you say so, has done a lot for Slovenia. And that leaves bigger clues than reading daily newspapers. That's what I mean; and of course you're right. And if I go back to Gogol, I would add the next supplement that applies to Slovenian politics and I will not divide it into blocks. As you know, they wanted to "eat" him, Gogolja after the Auditor, saying that he had a false tendency to show the Russian society; the emperor who was watching said, "Yes, we all got a slap and I got the biggest." It will be nice when Slovenian politics can also understand from the journals that something of this concern is not only saying, "These bastards put me on that shore." It also waits for us to know how to "eat" the thing if it is true, but not so to set up, say, our own newspaper, so that we can shut down the opponent's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The debaters are: first Mr Leon Kremjar, then Jelko Kacin, France Tsukati, Mr Sok and Mr Tanko. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. There is always a problem when it comes to a wrong attitude or when the basis for a thought is not properly set. In this case, I think they have the basis and the basis for the proposal that we are talking about, some flaws. That is, we have also heard from the debates - from the assessment that we have - a little simplistic, but still - poor media and unilaterally oriented media. I don't think it's really one or the other - we don't have one-sided media and we don't have bad media. If I develop this thesis further - this thesis that we have, that is - then we come to the logical consequence of some money helping to set up an issue that would be the opposite of that. My colleague Partljič already mentioned that there were experiments, not only on the right left, but also, if you want, assessed left - left comparisons, and of course they did not happen. However, things did not work out either because of political or also because of orientation, perhaps because of attempts of extreme political orientation, both left and right. [[Equalize these experiments]] . But above all, I don't think they did, because they didn't have a fundamental idea, and this is that the media is also a sales commodity at the end of the day, so that the content must be liked by the people who want to read it. And that's the basis of every printed medium. And if he is, then, of course, he will be sold, and then he will be successful, and he will be able to work normally. You can be sure - I am because I have done these things myself - that everyone who decides about the media has to think this way, otherwise the story doesn't work. I can also tell you - this is my opinion, I am deeply convinced - that our media, Slovenia, are roughly as structured as this round hall is today: politically and otherwise. Of course, some may think otherwise, but it is also right, of course, I allow everyone to evaluate the matter as he sees it. So, I think it's wrong to assume that we only have one-sided media and that these media are bad, so we would also need, after all, some fund and some money to do something else. If that is not the case, then I would be very happy to have someone explain to me how we can use some money to influence journalists, officers, and broadcasters: if they are not well targeted, if they are not objective, if they do not write honestly, if they do not do what is right. In what way could we do so from a fund? I don't know the story that now would some people pay for writing differently, would they give them supplements or something else? [[...]] I just don't understand what, except the possibility of getting some money for something that would be different from what we think it is. I think that's what Dr. Bayuk said - and I deeply agree with him about his ideas about democracy, because I feel the same way or the same. But I think it would lead to, of course, that we would like to profile things and say: this is the left, this is the right, things are perfectly clear, and now we are equating and we want to balance this imbalance a little bit. That's why I think the matter, of course, has some, clearly, different ideas and I think it's wrong and, of course, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar wants to replicate Mr. Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. So two things encouraged me a little bit. Rather, the claim that the media should be as structured as our Parliament. I think that's the point. Well, if that's the case, then I'm really worried. Indeed, you know very well that in Parliament we are discussing who is the opposition and who is the position. Yeah, well, if our media is that focused, then they don't know whether to look at the government under their fingertips or whether they should praise the government. And that's the problem. That's a good case you've given me, and I'm grateful for it. That is to say, if we can't even discuss here, how can someone who looks at it from the side guides what is right now. And I got stabbed next. What should we do now with this fund: whether we should pay, perhaps that journalists should be otherwise targeted or something in this sense. I'd say it's not at all about the press being otherwise targeted, because - probably - they're right. It's just something else: it's a chance to hear a different voice. Just let me give you an example. During the time of the government, Dr. Bajuk was first given an opportunity, not the minister of this government, who took some action, but the minister of the previous government, and then, if there is any time left, for the current Minister of Bajuk's government. We thought this was a new approach, which would not be so bad after all. However, when this current government came again, the matter was closed. Now, of course, the Minister of the current government has all the possibility, which is nothing wrong; but the other side of the medal, it is said, whether the former Minister or not, is a member of the opposition representing this area - he is nowhere. There's no way. And that's what this is all about! If possible, not to pay the press. God forbid! If anyone thinks the purpose of this amendment is this, then I have to categorically deny that it is not true and that it has never been possible to think about it, and it has never been possible for anyone to bribe anyone. I don't know how this thought of buying you someone to publish something. I don't know. It didn't occur to us, I don't know, but maybe there's an association or something, I don't know. I don't mean to be mean, but it really stabbed me to buy someone. It's just an opportunity. The possibility that you could present your view somewhere. That's what this is all about! And to avoid any additions, again needlessly, I would like to reiterate that we should not think in this direction about paying someone. It is only an option, not to pay him to change his mind, or to try to guide himself in this way and to set a course - just for the possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Well, Mr Petan didn't want to understand me, I suppose, because I don't believe he couldn't understand. I'm talking about the structure of the media, about the journalists, and my idea is that there are about as many political orientations as we are here. And such political orientations as we are here, in this round hall, because we can fight around, there is also Slovenian society; and it is also right that this is the case. And that's what I was going to say -- within one medium, it's about as structured as it is here. That's what I was gonna say. And then there's the other thing. If this is not the case - because you mentioned several times that it is not a new medium, that this is not the case - then even less now I understand how the plurality of ideas in the media would improve in each individual medium with the fund. That was my fundamental question, I don't understand it, not yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You want to replicate? Replica, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. So, I don't know why I couldn't understand it; but okay, let's just say that this is your thinking, which surprises me, because I don't think we've started a discussion in this term about which party is smart, which one isn't. But let's just say you didn't mean it. All right, I take that word back so you don't mean it. On the other hand, it surprises me why you started the topic of not talking about any other media. Of course we talked! I just said we don't think that the press would buy for money to think differently. But I wasn't talking about the media that the media would be any different or new, and I didn't say that. I just said -- and look at the magnetogram! - that this is an option, for example, that this medium would be such that the possibility of an equal presentation would also be a different opinion. That's all it was: that there wouldn't be any intolerance on one side. That's all I said. Neither did I determine whether the opposition might now have too many options. This is not what I have defined, I have only said that everyone would have the same opportunities, so to speak, government proposals and those proposals that are slightly different from government or otherwise. After all, this does not mean that government proposals are always bad, but even if it is a good proposal, it can have a different, opposite proposal and different thinking and a different approach. In these very days, we have a number of cases where such matters are involved in certain legal solutions. It's not about defining between blocks, it's inside the block itself. Allow me to remind you only of the Air Force Act or the Maritime Act. There were more problems within the government bloc than during, say, opposition and position; we could probably see that for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues! These amendments to Articles 123 and 123a seem to me to be an interesting joke, such an encouraging, lucid opportunity to discuss some things. In fact, I am grateful that they have written this down and proposed it. What I'm about to say is, I'm going to say based on a historical memory that's walking a little bit, especially on my personal experience. This year we will celebrate 10 years of independent Slovenia, and on these anniversary I also remember the first efforts to pluralize our media. At that time, we had the first government, led by the then first prime minister, who was in another party. The government was Demosova, there were ministers from various parties, including from the then Slovenian Democratic Union. When it came to sharing money for media pluralisation, of course, today most talk about money going to set up the Slovenian daily. Of course, that's not entirely true. It was three things back then. I happened to serve as the Minister of Information at the time, and I remember these things because I happened to be present at the government when she made decisions on the use of this money. A very busy part of the money went to cover the loss from the past, from the time before the democratic elections, of a newspaper called Democracy by accident. I am not implying your democracy now, although it was then very happy and well written by your current president. But it was about covering the negative balance of the then democracy before the first democratic elections. This seemed very good to those two ministers who had provided money to cover this project because the Prime Minister, who was one party, had at least taken part of the money for some other projects. True, most of the money went to the Slovenes. But there was another additional part, which was dedicated to the newspaper of the fighting organization TV 15. This is so that the Slovenian public does not accidentally think it is a unilateral division of money, but to believe that it is a pluralisation of the media. So the first democratically elected government had already taken care of the pluralisation of the media, gave something to the fighters, covered the old sins of some ministers of the time, and gave money for the start of the Slovenian who then infamously ended. What we have in front of us today seems to me a very similar project. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll be very brief. I'll just add two more things. Look.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	I apologize, Mr Jelko Kacin, there is no limited debate. This is a mistake, the replica is limited in second reading to five minutes of discussion. So you can keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	I'm sorry, or thank you for explaining, I won't be wrong. In Article 123a, point IV is replaced by the following: written - look, watch what it says here: "The term of office of members of the Management Board coincides with the term of office of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." Have you ever seen anything like this? It does not last four years, but when we do, on the last day or the day the mandates of the new National Assembly are approved, this Administrative Board will no longer be. Gentlemen, I think that's a brilliant conclusion. A man like that wouldn't expect, and I believe that whoever made you this amendment is really a great joker. And he wanted to entertain us in about the same way as the famous American jester, who, according to his own words, "bred to ice" the entire Slovenian public, that we all euphorics were looking forward to winning one of our world champions in the field of computerism. It's a kind of prank. And I am in favour of exposing such a mockery now in the reading phase and not supporting such amendments, of course, and such solutions. But it is only a flower which is meant to test the intelligence of Members whether they will read these paragraphs or not. Now, as for professionalism and left and right. As far as I'm concerned, journalists are just professional and unprofessional. The one who is good, the one who is excellent, the one who I read, I read it not because of his omen, but because of the profession he masters, because of the craft which he possesses and the way he informs me and convinces me. And that's why I think it's a fund for pluralisation of the media, which is supposed to make sure that there are also alternative rapporteurs, as well as an attempt at some sort of prank, that someone else will apply for a possible call - not to the education ministry, but to get $15,000, but to some other state superstructure, where some of the deputies will be looking out for some board of directors, that we'll only be a little bit more left to the right balance. You know, this seems to me - for the first time: underestimation of Members and Members; I think it is underestimating the National Assembly as an institution and I think it is particularly underestimating all our media. If editors give up something of their own and in the reputation of their media, such a fund should be automatically and explicitly renounced and underlined. This is just proof that some editor is unable to perform the function for which he is paid, this is just proof that he has a baby in his office. And I don't know an editor like that. However, if the administration of a media thinks that the media is bad, please replace the editor-in-chief and then make sure that, in accordance with the authority of this matter, it is settled. But not at the expense of taxpayers' money! Not at the expense of taxpayers' money, but in agreement with owners: in order to achieve greater market value in order to better cover the market niche in order to reach out to some other media, they do something for themselves and others. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude: I think this is a good joke, a good joke, but I will not participate in this session, and I strongly recommend that you join me in this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr. Petan and then Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Mr. Kacin, you've got it a little too low. It's true that if you want to evaluate things, you make a joke. That's what we all know. However, if this proposal is equivalent or comparable to the prank we have witnessed in these days - which is not only in these days, but it has been dragging for three years, as far as I know - I would ask you, Mr. Kacin: where are the congratulations for this proposal? For Mr Roglj's prank there was a bunch of congratulations and euphoria. I am interested, but no one has congratulated us: whether we are now neglected, whether this is a different treatment of similar proposals, or whether it is congratulations only to foreigners, but not to domestics for similar things. So now we're feeling a little hurt here. That is why I have made order in that introduction so simply not likely and that smiling in this way is not the need of the applicants or the whole opposition if you want, if this was meant for us. So I'm sure you didn't mean that. But someone could understand that if they could only take the context from the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, do you give up the replica? Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Sometimes, especially in pre-election time, a person with current political issues in the case of a word, an act of great policy being reflected in the public or, if I continue on any such event: quasi-political or cultural, ideal, such as - say - the Bishop's Letter, a person opens the diary the next day and reads reports, the opinions of journalists. Many times it happens to me that, with some attitude, with some availability, I start to open a newspaper and find no resistance to my opinion. I open another diary: once again one journalist, another journalist, one report, another opinion - everyone against and perhaps even in the next diary by mocking, mocking the opposition, otherwise thinking; opening the third day - even worse, even ground jesting and so on. Many times a man might not - but I tell you that many Slovenians might, I would like to assess if we look at the relationship in our National Assembly, a third of Slovenians open a diary and find no resistance, or excuses, or a similar position as he does. That's it! Not that we choose between good and bad contributions, but that we choose only between those who are published. It's a monopoly on the media. This is what some here find difficult to understand that this is a problem of Slovenian media space. I do not expect you to vote on the amendment proposed, no. As I would not expect, for example, to come to this National Assembly with a proposal to allow for research journalism in the field of economic, political crime, corruption and the like. If those of us who beat journalist Petka so brutally were to sit here, or those who are interested in such freedom of journalistic writing would not come into law. I certainly don't expect you to support the amendment, which is basically about the possibility of media pluralisation. And this is what worries me: this blind street of Slovenian idea, political, democratic direction - a dead end! From this dead end, I'm sure I can't see the way in this term. This is, however, a problem for which if the people would like to have a healthy environment for their ideal development, then they should protect competition not only in the field of the economy, but also in the area of presenting ideas and political views. And that was the purpose of this amendment - to protect or enable competition. I don't think it's possible to live long with healthy fish in every lactate that doesn't have a bloat that doesn't have a flow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko's turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Obviously, we have somehow come to an area that appears to be a problem, as a problem of the possibility that even in some other way thinkers will get appropriate media attention. We are getting the feeling that we are somehow being media excluded and that in this area we can say what is media dictatorship or media tyranny and thus somehow fall short of those criteria, as we can say that we are a democratic or democratic society. And this is where I really meant this democracy. The fund that we are proposing creates only the possibility that this pluralisation will begin. And in fact, I don't somehow understand that the issues of upgrade, width and so on are already being asked. We haven't even come to this step to create the possibility of pluralisation. On the other hand, I have a feeling that some of the things that we have already adopted in this National Assembly speak about our breadth, about our citizenship, about our acceptance of different colors of people, different nationalities, different thinking. But only for as long as these things come into our environment and on our proposal. I think that in a way about this secularity, I would say, we can't even talk if we have, I would say, within the borders of this country the problems that we are talking about right now. I think it is right to make it clear that we are not advocating any journalistic, even from a political point of view, not to say corruption. These are, I'd say, very unfair things. We just want to give you a chance to other ways of thinking. What happened, whether it was the Slovene or some other journals that failed, etc., were experiments. I think that this option deserves what we are proposing to come to the media, which will be good enough and also clearly representing these things. Once again, I think it makes sense to support this article in order to create conditions for pluralisation. I don't think just by accepting this article, I'd say these things won't be sustainable. There's still a lot of work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Kremjar. Then it is Mr Sok's turn to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I have to, so even though I know it's already late and of course we still have a lot of work to do. However, it is incorrect - someone may think so and I do not object to it - but I must say that it is incorrect to proclaim a media dictatorship or as you said tyranny etc. Listen. We have no one here who can directly oppose such ideas. We're talking about some things outside of us. We have the right - we are talking about the media law and it is right to say it. I also have deep respect for extreme opinions. But in that, please, give me a chance and you gave it to me, thank you so much for saying it's not like that. We have, on average, as good or as bad media as any country around. Let's take a little look around, give something - these things, I suppose we all do - read, watch TV, listen to the radio and you will find out - I also had to do it professionally and also do it, because I was too long in this profession to care about how and what - Slovenian media space is about the same, about the same and good and bad, and in political and economic, and in another, as one place in Austria, as one place in Hungary, like one in Croatia, etc. But many things are much better in many elements, which, of course, we can also assess. It is unfair that constantly - it doesn't matter now whether it's left or right, or upper or lower, I don't know what to call it - that we also use this space to keep talking through these media, like the stupid themselves are sitting in these media and the bad guys themselves and the people themselves who always have something behind them and want something. Here are the professionals, and these are the good professionals who have been trained by these Slovenian schools and these Slovenian universities. They didn't go to school - if you want to frame it - everyone in some Kumrovci and I don't know where. But at these universities, Slovenians! In colleges - that's where they went to school and do their job well and professionally. And we're constantly trying to frame them for something, some, and now we're hearing about media tyranny, etc. [[...]] I'm sorry it upset me, but it really did. It's unfair to these people, and it's wrong to do it that way. That's why I'm protesting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The debate is really long. We've heard a lot, but there are things we haven't heard yet. Finally, this is; I see that there are only different views in the types of opposition to this proposal. It's possible today to convince someone who doesn't see the problem at all. I can't help it. If you really can't see the signs here are too biased in our media, I can't help you. But to those of you who think that something is lazy about it and that it may be necessary to look for a solution that is otherwise different from our proposal, I will ask you a question: if not this proposal - what; and if not now - when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. You want to replicate? Here you go. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Comrade Bayuk! I'm not saying, unlike you, what anyone is capable of understanding and what they're not. But I'm asking you whether it might be possible to think about what you see, what you see, when you talk about the media as something that is -- and today we have had the opportunity to hear enough about it -- actually from one piece, which is either totalitarian or I don't know what else. I'm asking you! Anyone who tells others what the world looks like must first, probably, ask what its view is. There's no surveillance. We all just have eyes. I'm afraid that goes for you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	I hope you haven't understood my previous word as some understatement that you're unable to understand anything. If anyone understood that - obviously that's how you understood - I forgive myself for obviously not being clear in my presentation. It was that it was very difficult if someone did not see in this problem, if in fact obvious and in all his conviction - as, for example, Comrade Kremjar has now told us: he does not see the problem in this. He's sure there's no problem with us like we do. This is his view. I can't convince him otherwise. Also, Mr Kremjar, if you will allow me, I did not - and I hope that you do not think that this has been an underestimation of the abilities of our people - and how they do nobody has spoken here, at least in my opinion, demeaning about the people working in this area. [[...]] It is as my colleague Tsukjat said, that we only feel unilateral in presenting problems; that there is only one dead end and that must be a solution. The intervention of the state in this area is a terrible act. At all times, the intervention of the country is always scary and we must be very careful about it. In our opinion, however, we believe that the development of our democracy and plurality and access to different views is so important for the development of Slovenian democracy and for political culture that the country must do something. Let me repeat what I said earlier: to those colleagues who share with us at least partially - in some sense - this assessment that something needs to be done, and who disagree with Article 123 as proposed, I still ask the question if not as we suggest - how; and if not now - when will we be ready to do something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	Comrade Bajuk, the essential property of good journalism - I apologize, but since I have been asked, I have to answer how I see it - the essential quality of quality journalism and thus the quality of the journalist is objectivity. If we declare Slovenian journalists unobjective from political tendencies, then of course we also declare them bad journalists because they cannot be a good journalist who is not an objective journalist - it cannot be, it cannot be. And that's what they're teaching in schools, so I pulled this parallel with the schools and the trained journalists and what they're doing. I am sure, of course, that we have good journalists and that we have very political - now for the third time I repeat the same story - about as, in a circle made like we are here; but good. And it's nothing wrong, and it's okay. They can't be good journalists - believe me, there is no good journalist anywhere in the world who is not an objective journalist. That's why I connect these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The debates were also discussed in the following order: Dr. Jožef Bernik, Mr. Školč, Mr. Barovic - do you wish to replicate, Mr. Tsukjat? - another replica, and then three more debaters in this order. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	However, this advocacy on quality journalists would be supported. Indeed, it is not the problem of a quality journalist, because he decides not to publish the contribution, but the editor and through the editor the owner - that is, finance. And that is also possible intervention and control of the state to ensure the competitiveness of ideas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Battelli and Mr Petan have the replica. Mr Petan has a replica to implement Mr Sugar. You don't have Mr. Battelli on the run? Then Mr. Kremjar. First Mr. Petan and then Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you. So Mr Cuckati would really replicate to some extent, but he'd add a little bit more to it, so he wouldn't have called twice. In fact, I had previously thought to replicate Mr Kremjar, but because things will not develop to any unnecessary levels, I have abandoned them, but now that Mr Tsukati has set out the principles of your replica, I will answer. No one claims that journalists are bad. I never said that, and other colleagues never said that. I've even pointed out the possibilities more than once. And now let me tell you a specific case. Yesterday it was - I think it was the Studio show at 17, local radio stations all of Slovenia had a show about this law. And ladies and gentlemen, who was there? I think that because I missed something, only two members of liberal democracy participated and there was no opposition. This is a typical example - everything has been well said, no one talks about quality, nor about the quality of the journalist, nothing has been criticised. The only thing about options! This is again what I said five times today, or I don't know how many times, and we're all stressing it. It's a possibility. Why, for example, was there no one from the opposite camp on this show? Of those who, say, propose this amendment? And even if they were, all the other amendments went down in that hour. It's no big deal, because that's the whole point of democracy for everyone to express their opinions! But there was no opportunity for others to present this opinion. That's what this is all about and nothing else. But there was never a quality talk, let's say, I don't know, about the bias of some journalists. Never. I never said that, and I'll never say that. But it's just an opportunity. One more time, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Look, of course, when I'm talking about journalists, I'm talking about the whole structure in the press houses. We - with the exception of RTV, such as it is - have our own media owned by the national public institution. Which means we have owners. These owners are not political organizations and I don't know who. These owners are in the vast majority of cases, these are banks in the final stage through pids and so on. In short, the matter is very clear who owns it. And he has a purely financial interest. If we pull this parallel, that the owners are bad, because if we say that it's not good, then the editors are unobjective, I have to say, not bad, unobjective. It says: owners are unobjective, editors are unobjective, directors are unobjective, journalists are unobjective. Or: journalists are good and others don't. Then, of course, we come to the fact that the whole society is wrong, which of course is also possible. But this company is just profiled the way it's profiled. Of course, there is no longer - you look at the structure, ownership, media; we bring this matter to society: the owners are known, the owners are clear, and these owners have no ties and no relationship with politics, but, as it is said, there is money and it is there. And that's why our media, our print media, are successful. These are the most successful, financially successful houses - Work, Evening, Diary, etc. Look at the results and you will find that because the owners - as I say - are successful. But he's successful when people buy it -- people buy it when they're satisfied with content. So all those, most of those who buy, are obviously satisfied, otherwise they wouldn't buy it. I just want to say that it's not a problem now that we're going to put some boundaries in the middle - the journalists are great and good, but the media are tyrannical or as we've heard before. That's not how it works. That's not working! Even in the case of Slovenian media it is not so - in my deep conviction, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Roberto Battelli, please, a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Bayuk, but he's not here right now. However, it may not hurt to say anything about how to help the media without establishing some political arbitration to share budgetary money. We have an example of one of the neighbouring countries helping the media, and thus their pluralisation, in a way that subsidises paper. One who reaches a certain load and who - not so high this threshold - gets subsidised paper. You can do that in these ways. When are we supposed to do this, if that's what it takes, I don't know. This is probably also a matter for Members and their initiatives or their competence to propose laws and amendments to laws. But I would also like to say that, in fact, I would have nothing to add to what Mr Kremjar has said; because I am a civilian journalist alone, I fully agree and congratulate him on this implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replica! Mr Jožef Školč, then Mr Barovic and Mr Tanko, if I am Yes. [[...]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	I'd say it's actually what makes sense to talk about this amendment, the amendment itself, not all the problems we're talking about. The amendment, as it is written, would actually cause terrible difficulties in implementation; even the mere thought that I have dealt with this is in some ways incomprehensible, in certain parts, of course, is contrary to what we have spoken in the preceding parts of the debate. In a way, however, I find the discussion of pluralisation and related to media labels problematic. Last but not least, if we are looking at a longer period of time, you will see that the same media and perhaps those that have not been mentioned this time - I am not referring to the journals here, but to the same media that is still operating in Slovenia today - were one of the key promoters of such self-reliance and even more democratisation in the 1980s. Today we do not like them; today, for example, we say that it happened in, say, one issue of the New Magazine. I would like to remind you that the systematic work on the limits of the previous system has been opened by the student and youth media. That's why they were and we were in court all the time, and that's why these media were terribly defended at some point. They've done, I'll say, one of the key roles that are related to the issues of democracy. If you remember the early 1990s, the newspaper Demos actually forced the work into certain actions. What was not possible, due to the complicated situation in Parliament, was, as it sounds, essentially with this "single newspaper for Slovenia" and striking comments, forced the ambassadors and ministers of Demos into certain solutions. And if you look at the lock, there's going to be a lot of interesting and unusual. Later, the owners received all these newspapers in one way or another. And here it is, I'll say, it's a paradoxical matter. If they had previously performed a task that went into the context of history to use the syntagms that we were learning in the schools we went to, then it is paradoxical that in these newspapers they became some institutional owners, and this is no longer happening. Cracker's company, for example, is an important owner in all three newspaper houses. Now I don't wonder if any of this has anything to do with what you're talking about - it can be, it can't be. I suppose they are of course interested in yielding first, if I understand the purpose of their establishment; if they are interested in something else, they will have problems with economic accounts at some point. If they're interested in yielding, they have to be satisfied. And that's what Mr. Kremjar was talking about. But it would be very embarrassing for Krek's company to say that there's a left-wing box. Maybe you know more. I don't know much about that. But these are things that have to do with it. Of course, I agree that there may also be some incentives to help to, I will say, a better media space. I think he's plural, but I'm not happy with even the ones I agree with. So you wouldn't but it has nothing to do with this article. [[...]] Look what's been written down here. There are three key things I'd like to comment on and they're connected. One is this indent, ensuring the plurality of generally informative printed journals, then you have this fund managed by representatives of political parties and led by the Minister of Culture, and then you have in the sixth indent to share it, according to the average number of copies sold of the Diary or the Week. If this person reads together, it is very difficult to understand how this would work. If it means that whoever sells more copies gets more subsidies, then it would go to work. That's if they keep that information. If we turned the option, it's said to sell as little as possible, then we wouldn't achieve what we want the diary to be powerful. However, it would certainly be worth it to each of us to set up such a thing and provide that minimum of copies and collect money from this fund. I'm talking about this amendment being thoughtless, faked and cannot be supported, and this has nothing to do with whether we are satisfied with this space or not. However, if we go to this central issue, who divides it, then of course we understand all of this only as a discussion of how pleased we are with reporting on political positions, and not by reporting on political positions, but by mediating political opinions, which is something else. That's what I think if I remind you back of this debate about RTV, where we were trying terribly hard to minimize political parties in decision-making. Yesterday, for example, in a discussion about local communities, where we decided that this political segment should in fact be ruled out. I don't know how that article's gonna work, it's impossible to work, but we've been through this. Today we bring across the other door in essentially hypothetically, let's say that the thing is immediately understandable, the leaders of the parliamentary groups that decide on money for the media. What would that look like? This is the content of this amendment, and this means that we would be privileged to have this money for what we are talking about here, while for those political options, hypothetically, who have failed to get into Parliament if we are talking only about this segment or that we are talking about some specialised policies that are not even related to Parliament's decision-making, there would still be no room. That is how I think the issue is also at this point, and it is simply too preconceived that this good will, which we can also demonstrate, would allow us to vote in favour of such a proposal. There's not enough imagination. If you can tell me how this money would be based on the number of copies, if you were doing a test of what each of us thinks, it seems to me that two would not write the same. The last question, which was why the previous government did not include this, was that there was, in fact, a debate in the public all the time, that there was simply not enough money from these sources, which are listed here, to cover this interest. The restriction that led us at the time was again a restriction on what colleague Majda Shirca was talking about to provide some money to promote this audiovisual production, which nevertheless requires some different and technical and usually also financial resources and where certain quotas are prescribed and where, I will say, this market is undeveloped. The market for printed media in Slovenia is developed. Some succeed, others fail, while you will see on this second segment, if you subtract the radio, there is virtually not enough financial potential for three serious televisions. For one we provide money by marriage, while others raise money as they know and know. In this sense, the justification of this money for these programmes is different from the justification of money for printed media. These types of projects have already run in Slovenia in a similar way, but unfortunately they have not produced any fruit. Already this information, how it failed not to the Slovenian, not to the morning and not to the Republic, should give the impression that it is necessary to look for other ways, whether it is those of which Mr Battelli is speaking, or whether there are thirds, but certainly other ways, because the money in the budget is to finance newspapers, and this, I mean, does not actually provide anywhere, in the vast majority. These are my measured arguments against these solutions. The other is what I think it's not even appropriate to make fun of a solution or something, but this amendment is practical, except that it allows us all to say what we think about newspapers does not, unfortunately, bring solutions for a new newspaper.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I think it's appropriate for me to answer Mr. Skull. If the content of the amendment we have tabled is controversial, I think it is also possible to make an amendment to the amendment. In this respect, the content can also be significantly improved. After all, even in this proposal, the law has laid down a number of such provisions with which individuals who disagree with the basic solution and the proposals also correct or supplement it. I would also like to say that Mr Školč has practically analysed the entire amendment of Article 123, with the exception of the 8th point, the eighth indent, where it is specified who and how it deals with the distribution of funds to be collected in this context. I believe that the proposal is correctly written not to favour any option, but to give exclusive jurisdiction to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not made up of any member of the opposition. This is said to mean that the chosen elite is actually deciding how the funds will be spent. But I just want to point out one more thing. In the context of the consideration of this law, we have defined all the essential elements. That is to say, we have set ownership shares or those own shares limits, we have set management rights, we have defined market ownership. In fact, we have defined all those key things, not least the share of Slovenian production, we have defined all things, but the government has somehow recorded all these things according to the existing state. This is said to be a way of legalising or covering what is actually on the market today. This law does not allow me to say absolutely no perspective. It's a cover-up thing. The only thing that actually remains to change what I just said is to allow plurality. This is said to support this proposal for the Fund. And that's the only thing that actually deviates from the current state of affairs. If we do not support this, then I also see no point in why we are actually considering this law at all, as the existing situation with the existing laws is also covered. The whole point of this law is to put in place certain proposals, certain changes that will constitute a step forward or set a new goal in this area. But if we just legalise what has already been achieved and we can't do anything to hurt, I don't know, commercial television or existing owners, or reach into the market, then I think that the thing is completely, I don't know how to say, either incorrect or unhygienic. In a way, we have to open up the media space. I am sorry that we are here to discuss journalists and the quality of journalists - there has never been a discussion on this side of us. We're only talking about media plurality and media space. Everything else is practically pure ballast in these discussions. I think that this is the last, in fact, key proposal with which this law can be transformed a little bit further into an area that means some perspective. Everything else is practical history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, a replica of Mr. Tank's performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, through this discussion, the question of what we can do for pluralisation has been going on for quite some time now, if not as we wrote it down, then tell us how. Without the slightest bit of irony, by trying to understand what is actually going on and what we are discussing, my sincere answer is that we will do the most for the plurality of the media space if we do not support this amendment. Why am I being honest with you? Because it seems to me that at work, I think, only in my personal opinion, there is a wrong perception of how people accept the media. Most, the majority of citizens and citizens of this country do not buy a newspaper because they want to read their client color in it. If I want to know what my client is saying, then I'm reading our client's paper, so I'm not buying Del, so I'm not buying Diary, Dinner and anything else. In the newspapers, we want to read broader spectrum, broader thinking. We're people now, I think, pretty normal. Because we are not discussing the setting up of client newspapers, but we are discussing how to enable this space to be normal, plural, then it seems to me that we will do the most for this plurality if we stop dealing with how we will ensure, as a political option, that we will profile ourselves on the party's salary. We will also do the most for the right spectrum in this way, as we would have if not, for example, during the summer of last year, to try to take up certain positions in individual media. This has reduced the power of that part of the right political options, simply reducing the space normally occupied by this political option in the country. The middle was strengthened and the left spectrum of space strengthened. So 30 percent of the votes in the political option would be more than enough for a newspaper to live in a certain province if people read newspapers according to customer affiliation. We wouldn't need any funds for that. But -- and I'm done with that -- people don't read newspapers, we don't watch television like that. Therefore, this discussion is in fact unproductive and therefore the biggest service of media plurality is that this has not been complemented. That way, journalists and journalists will continue to share. I just don't agree with some of the discussions here that everything is good, everyone is pretty good, everything is very qualified. That's just not true. Journalists and journalists are either normal or normal, like everyone else. In some areas, we manage things, we know things about them, we have done things, we have made mistakes at other points. This applies to each of us individually and this also applies to division within professions - we have quality texts of the same authors and completely funny texts of the same author on another issue. The same is true of other quality in the difference between people - some are better journalists, better journalists, and others are worse. It's a normal situation. Let's let her do the same in the future. So let's just let this amendment pass, so it won't be accepted. This will be of far greater benefit to the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	I am still obliged to allow Mr Petan's replica of the implementation of Mr Školč, and then Mr Bajuk to implement Mr Gabra. [[...]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I think this discussion really got out of hand. We've talked a lot about journalists here, but we don't have a law on journalism or anything. I don't know who started this topic on the press. This is the third or fourth time that I have advertised because I want to deny this, not to talk about journalists, but to talk about the possibility of the approach being heard as well, I don't know if the opposition is a difficult word, all the possibilities of some views that exist in some society. That's what this is about. It's about options, not the press. This will be dealt with by another law or by a code, I don't know which journalists will deal with it on their own. We don't want to talk about journalists in this case, in the case of this article. This might suit someone else. What Honourable colleague Gaber said about people not reading newspapers or following the media according to customer affiliation, I agree with him in part. I agree. However, it is probably not Slovenian or a member of our society who would say that such a newspaper, where all the political options will have the same opportunity to present that it will not read, will probably not. I didn't say anyone said that. But we would also like to move away from the area. I'm saying we'd like media like that where everyone would have the same opportunities or at least roughly. So there wouldn't be such a big difference between one option and another option. I mentioned one earlier about yesterday. As far as how we'd share that money. I think that if the 123rd article is read out in detail, it is perfectly clear. Every fund, however, must have a legal basis for work, not just for formation, this is another, but for work - it has a statute, it has rules and so on. That's exactly where it would be defined. We have a bunch of funds, which we have also confirmed in the National Assembly, but nothing has been written on how they will meet and how they will eventually share money. This is defined by their internal act. If you read the eighth indent of Article 123, it clearly states that the organisation, mode of work and tasks of the Fund, the appointment procedure and the mandates of the members of the Management Board and so on, in accordance with the law governing the operation of the public funds, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall specify in more detail. Here it is, yes, all defined how it should be done! That's what the government is saying. It's just going to determine their job details. The law probably does not define this, since no law on the appointment of any fund that we adopted on the current band in the previous year, since the European Union has also prescribed certain things for us, especially in the field of agriculture, we have only appointed it to be called this fund and this fund. But how the fund works, we know clearly what the procedure is. That's why we have legislation. Therefore, do not say that it is not defined how it will be shared. Of course not. But it is defined how this will be determined that everything will be clear. I don't see any fear here, unless it's willing, but that's another matter of course, and there might be something else to say about it. It's on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Bajuk has a replica of the implementation of Mr Gabra and then Mr Bevk of the implementation of Mr Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, I hope this is the last time I'm gonna answer. I'd like to explain it to my colleague Gabru once more. It's not a matter of clientele here. My client already has, we've already started, we've got one period because we don't have much money. It's called Mirror and I'll give you one, you'll see it already exists. This is a policy view from our point of view on certain issues of our time. That's perfectly normal. We already have that. That's not what this is about. The debate should focus on the question: pluralism is or is not, we want it or are ready to do something about it. That's what this is about. Pluralism about information itself. Not only how it is reported, but also what is reported and never reported. And about that, I can tell you a thousand cases, but that's something I'd rather be special to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. I will challenge my colleague Mr Tank and, in part, Dr Bayuk to one of his previous performances. If someone in this country could ask for a media fund, this could certainly be a Slovenian left, which does not have to be said in "not in my diary, nor in other media". However, I do not think this is the way to pluralise the media space in Slovenia. Money will not be able to do so. Only the quality of the media and those who co-create and co-form these media is a condition and, if you want, a condition for survival and, if you want, the creation of a newspaper, TV and radio program and so on. Even so financially supported media from a foreign country will end up in the media market and will remain there or not, as has happened many times in the past. That such projects fail unfavorably shows us the experience of 1991 when the Republican Assembly decided at that time to devote 28 million and 800 thousand dinars to pluralisation of the media space in Slovenia. If I am not mistaken, then 20 million dinars were won by Slovenians, 7 million dinars were intended to cover the losses of democracy and to relaunch it, and some small coins were also for some other projects. Also, the opinion expressed by Dr. Bayuk, a respected colleague, that the bias of some media can be overcome by this fund seems to me to be attracted to the hair. It can only cause narrowness and bias on the other side. But I don't think that's the point of solving this thing or the fund for it. Such a fund is, and I will end it, also questionable from the point of view of freedom of the press, because in this case it would be necessary to re-establish a so-called socio-engaged journalist, who would be paid directly by the state with this budget money and would ultimately depend on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Two others voted in the debate. First, Mr Sok and then Mr Barovic, and finally, he wants a government representative. And Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing this issue for a long time, arguments and views are different, but it is still true, and many debaters have also pointed out that the situation in Slovenia is not the same in the field of media as it should be. This, of course, is also normal in the 50s of a single party's rule. Both capital and organizational issues are set so that pluralisation in this sphere is extremely difficult to penetrate. Look, even the annual State Department report reminds us of that. That's the way it is this year. They mention that in Slovenia there is still censorship, say self-censorship or self-censorship of this expression and this phenomenon. So we should all work together to make some progress in this area. We are aware that the law cannot create pluralisation of the media, especially in a society where there is a lack of democratic tradition or this democratic tradition is only a decade old. Nevertheless, it seems worth a try in this direction. What the previous government has proposed, this fund with 1 billion tolars, this is not such a big budget expenditure that this state council in defence of state finances should insult such a fund. Nor does it mean that this fund, as some have discussed, would create some new right media. It is about trying to create more independent media through this fund, but those who already exist are not entirely independent. Some of you have initiated this case of former attempts at budgetary financing and have found that all attempts have failed. But let's ask ourselves why they failed. You mentioned the Slovenian. It seems incorrect to me how you treat it. It is normal for a magazine that began to be published again after 50 years, which had been deprived of all its resources, if the country had not helped him financially, that it had to simply fail after a certain period of time. This is the same thing as you two start running towards a goal that is 100 meters away and one starts running from zero position and the other starts running from 50 meters. Who's first on the target? That's clear. This was also the case with these new newspapers that wanted to establish themselves in the Slovenian space and were unfortunately unable to do so. The fact that Slovenian media space is not plural, of course we are not the only ones thinking in opposition. When I was driving to work yesterday morning, and I listened to a very random discussion, echoing this world's self-appointed computer champion, the audience was on the air, and I can honestly tell you whether or not to get that debate from yesterday, 90% of the people were talking about the same problem - saying that Slovenian media space is not plural, that it is not objective, that it is biased. Thus, if Mr Kacin said that what the opposition is proposing is a lucid joke, and that we are great jokers, then it means that at least half of the Slovenian people are therefore jesters. All those who demand that these things be arranged differently. This national assembly should listen in this direction. We are saying that this law is about complying with European Union standards. However, we can read in the newspaper that the neighbouring Austria, which has a democratic tradition with a media space balanced, has such a fund. With what, then, are we better off not being able to imitate them and doing something in this direction? Different opinions were about bias. There's only one argument I'm going to make from the past. You'll all remember him. I told him last time in front of the press. When the government of Dr. Andrey Bajuk did not want to raise the excise duty on gasoline when the world price of gasoline fell, the media, especially audiovisual media, staged a real race against the government, to do the wrong thing, to do the same in order to raise excise duties and thus to run into the budget of 7 billion tolars. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, such reporting and such cheering are normal? This isn't normal! And these are not, for my understanding, objective media and those media I would trust. I must tell you, people are increasingly apathetic about such and similar reports, but we can also ask ourselves why intolerance is growing in our society. Don't the media contribute to this, too? With this amendment, you have listed various arguments against. I have to say, they don't convince me. If any points in this amendment are miswritten, I suggest we try to change them together. And it might also be very good for you from the coalition to listen to it and perhaps at this point - Mr Mohe, who is like this, with his finger in command, how you will vote, up and down - in this amendment, raise your finger like this and all of you will take this matter together. Then it would also be easier for us and perhaps the coalition would avoid the perceptions that we have in Slovenia today, in this way that democracy does not rule Slovenia, but democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Let me begin by saying that, in fact, I did not intend to engage in this discussion, which I think has been going on a little too long. However, Mrs Sok, a fellow Member of Parliament, mentioned earlier "the incorrect mention of the Slovenian," and that stabbed me. In fact, we all know, I am sure, in three months' time, that will be ten years from now, which Slovenia has started to produce, and we all remember how the advertising, advertising of this journal was done, we remember the posters of "80,000 new Slovenians", and the actual load of this Slovenian was also 80,000 at the beginning. I happen to know, because I was told by a certain acquaintance who was working with the Slovenian at the time, that huge quantities, more than ten thousand copies of the Slovenians, went essentially to Dinos or in the trash as soon as they were squeezed. But still, someone had an interest in these things. Of course, the money from this fund for media pluralisation has been mentioned several times in the back. I'm very afraid that any new fund would mean a similar thing, but it would be some very right-wing or very left-wing diary. I therefore agree with all those predecessors and speakers who have spoken of the good news being created by good journalists, and that, in fact, only the great partiality of certain diaries that have fallen so far has been the main cause of their collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	It's quite a brief replica to the Member of Parliament. What he said about the Slovenian might hold, but let's ask ourselves why. So, if I am properly informed, we have only two distribution companies in Slovenia: one is Vestnik and Work-Sale. Even the then Slovenian, who began to emerge, had problems in distribution. I can assure myself that when the Slovenians began to come out, you could not get in the good part of Slovenia. So he just wasn't there. Before this National Assembly, I hope to state that these distribution companies have literally adjusted in the distribution of this newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kremjar!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Look. Distribution companies are companies that live on what they do on the market. If that is true, then those who have made such decisions should be suspended and I do not know what to do with them. I'm sure it's not. They live on how much, what sale. The ones who sell, the whole network, etc. It is, of course, purely and entirely on the market and to induce some political implications, it is pointless. And one more thing. Mr Sok mentioned it, so I actually did. Assessing what people think and what people think about the integrity of Slovenian media space based on one survey is too narrow. We have, thank God, in Slovenia also highly developed services dealing with public research, these things can be read and done. Each year, of course, one extremely large research is being done, which is being prepared by Mediana, and a whole bunch of other public opinion research, which shows what people think about these media. Let's get that read, unless we say it's wrong again and it's politically colored, etc. But then we come to the fact that it's completely and completely wrong and we always get to some "devil" of one kind or another that somehow even directs the matter. It's just that everything's wrong in the final phase. Let us also read these public studies. These public surveys are different than one random survey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, then Dr Bernik and Mr Zorko have the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! For two hours you were evaluators of the work of journalists, evaluators of media work, members of the Court of Auditors looking for hidden or public owners in some media. I've listened to almost everything, and I have to say about the fund and the point that I've heard very little. When I look at this, within ten centimetres of quantity, there are some very important points that we still have to process, and 60 amendments to this article, and when we think about what we're talking about now, I'm afraid we'll be able to hear and read in all the media tomorrow, or write to the press or say what Prešeren said: "Only the shoes belong to the hooves." Unfortunately. Or maybe they'll even measure us, maybe say, with xenophobics, because we like something, but the other one doesn't, because it's a popular expression today, in a translated sense, of course. Now I understand why, many years ago, Moshe Dejan said on a pay phone in the Organization of the United Nations, "Dogs bark, caravan moves on." I'm saying this is what the media can think of us right now. Let us be aware of something: the media is a very evasive mechanism, which has its own smooth track to drive, with or without the fund. That is why I ask you, please, if there are unnecessary reviews, criticisms by journalists, etc., which I do not think is part of this point, let us leave if we make a proposal to form a fund for the vote. I also think that - I apologize if I get involved in what I shouldn't - the Presidency of the National Assembly should intervene with a procedural proposal, given all that remains to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, Mr. Barovich. We're in second gear. It's in front of the amendments. In this case, we have taken the debate before the entire chapter dealing with it. I think it is right that colleagues have been able to debate without limitation, as has been the custom so far. Only the replica in this section is limited to 5 minutes. That's how I give my word to Dr. Joseph Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's been said a lot, so I'm not going to repeat some things. But I would like to mention that this is not a banal debate. This isn't about a banal object. It's about something serious. This is not about evaluating journalists, but it is about what culture, politics and other cultures we want to create in our country. As far as it is concerned, some follow the example of the Slovenian. If you don't mind, I'd like to explain a few things, because I was there, and I also had a big hole in my own pocket. It is true that at the time the government voted some money, but the money came in half because of the dalvatation. Secondly, it must be acknowledged that new errors have been made in Slovenia, in the editorial sector, etc., and that some have come together to boycott the whole thing within. I knew a lot of journalists who were writing about the Slovenians who are elsewhere today. Some are very capable, but they write differently than they did when they were with the Slovenes. That's where something happened. Let me also say that it came to Slovenia that we lost a lot of subscribers when Peterlet's government fell. You know what happened - and you can check it out - all the ministries, all the embassies, most of the big companies canceled the ads. Whether it was an accident or not, I'll leave it to you to find out. In addition, ads did not come from small people who were from large companies anymore. That's what it was. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This was not the reason that the Slovenians failed, nor was it the reason that the Slovenian Manage was not partial to certain things, but that was not the reason. [[...]] The reason was that somewhere it was decided that this newspaper had to go to waste right before the elections, one month or two, I don't remember. That's a fact you can verify. Good. We were talking about pluralism. What is pluralism? Pluralism, that all ideas are presented equally, that they do not delude themselves, that the news is separated from the comments, and that is what I miss very much about us. Look, this isn't about the left and right media. This is about people seeing that they recognize the media and know what this medium is promoting. Like, take the New York Times or take the Wall Street Journal, and you'll know where they belong. There you can read two things or if you want to go into one thing or another, there you will know that it is a matter of ownership. Well, now I'm on to it. Here's the thing: it's about capital and it's about ideas. As far as capital is concerned, I think we will fully agree that this capital is in the hands of one option. In fact, Krekova's bank, if it has 30 or whatever in some medium, doesn't mean anything except that it's an investor for profit. Control functions were all in the hands of those who once wrote, 20, 15 years ago, writing others for the same medium today. The idea that a man was 20 years old, 25 years old, can't be changed that way. All right, if we know this medium is like this, then we'll know it is. If we don't like it, we won't buy it. There's nothing else to buy today. It seems to me that all of us would do very well to have an objective or pardon, not to say an objective, different medium. So we can hear all sides, and then in a few years, we can figure out if that's what we're fighting for here or not. I think we should take this seriously. I am not talking about the text of this amendment, because I myself think that some things should be strongly corrected, but I am talking about giving our country some air that we do not currently have. Besides, I'd think we'd get rid of the journalist somehow. I don't know if you have the same experience as me, but from time to time, what kind of journalist do I meet, and I ask him, "Yeah, that's what you asked me, yeah, where is that?" What do you think he's saying? "Yes, quite simply, it didn't come in." Why didn't it come in, because the comment was inappropriate for some political options. I think we have some very good journalists, I must say, but they're under pressure. I think they should be freed from this pressure. As far as it goes, someone earlier talked about how the Slovenian had been doing the wrong business. There was talk of distribution. Do you realize that the work has a perfect monopoly on distribution? Okay, if they've achieved this with their ability, fine. But all of today's journals are afraid of competition. They fear competition for capital, ads and so on, and, of course, they are also afraid of competing ideas. But here, if we believe in a free economy, we have to start breaking these monopolies by getting competitors - and then we'll all be doing better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will proceed to the vote on the first amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to section II, Title 9. Chapters. We're voting. There are 51 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 12 voted in favour, 31 against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 31.]] Can I intervene from this place, colleague Simšičeva, or have I pulled my card out? No, that is why there has been a vote error. I suggest we re-vote. We apologize to my colleague Irma for this, but it would be very wrong if you were to close your eyes before this, a completely unwitting mistake. I have to re-vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We're voting. Of the 50 present, 17 voted in favour, 30 against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We are now voting on the whole chapter. We're voting. 48 colleagues and colleagues were voted on. 34 supported them, 3 voted against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] Two amendments were tabled under Article 123. Does anyone want to discuss this article? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we vote first on the proposal of the Socialist Group of Members Please? Which one is irrelevant? The first one is irrelevant. Does that mean we're voting please? [[...]] We're picking up the conundrum! Please place your cards in order to determine the consonance. Look, ladies and gentlemen! I see that some Members and Members have left the House after this vote. It is not possible to continue to rule on this law because the State Assembly is not concluded. However, it would be extremely bad, I repeat, extremely bad if today the National Assembly did not make some decisions on ratifications. I suggest we have 10 minutes off and I invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups if we can meet in room 117. In room 117, heads of parliamentary groups. We'll resume the session in 10 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	We will continue the meeting at 13.10 p.m. and, if necessary, with a few delays after 2.00 p.m., also conclude the meeting with agreed agenda items. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please insert the cards into the voting devices. There are 50 Members and Members present in the Chamber, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We will vote on the amendment tabled by the 123rd member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 49 colleagues and colleagues voted on this proposal. 42 supported the amendment, and three opposed it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. Article 35 fully supported, 5 opposed. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand he's been accepted. Here we have a proposal for a new 123.a. The proposer shall be the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 15 votes in favour, 29 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] The proposal by the Socialist Party's Group of Members has not been adopted. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? We have seven amendments under Article 125. I find that no, and we will vote in line as recorded in your review on page 49 plus one, I am warned by the Secretary-General. It is a group of Members, with Mr Mohet's first-signed, to make a mistake with the 144th Article Pardon! [[...]] I'm withdrawing that warning. We vote on the amendment under order number one, on page 49, of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 125. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 40 supported them, two opposed him. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the amendment of colleague Rudolph Petan under order number two. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 13 supported them and 26 did not. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 26.]] The amendment was not accepted. The same is the amendment under order number 3, so we will not decide on the amendment under order number 3. We will decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under order number 4. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted. 36 were in favor, one against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the government's amendment has been adopted. The next amendment is irrelevant. We will therefore vote on the amendment under order number 6. The proposer is the Committee for Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted. 42 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. There is no need to vote on the amendment under order number 7; it is irrelevant, and not on the amendment you have on the sheet, number 13, of the SDS Group of Members. We are voting on the whole article. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 35 supported them, 3 opposed him. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 143. Anybody want to talk about them? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide in sequence, first on the proposal under order number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Between 51 colleagues and colleagues, the amendment supported 35 of them, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Between 51 colleagues and 35 supported this decision, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the whole article. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted. 35 voted in favour, no one objected. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Two amendments have been tabled for the 144th Article. First, we will vote on the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed colleague Mohet to the 144th Article - you have a special letter on your list. To avoid misunderstandings, let me read: "In the second paragraph, after the words '12 minutes per hour', add the text 'between 18.00 and 23.00 and 9 minutes per hour', and at the end of the sentence, the text 'from 18.00 to 23.00 hours' shall be added after the words 'TV sale'." If this is accepted, the second is irrelevant. We're voting. Between 51 colleagues and their colleagues, 38, 2 opposed the proposal. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And that he'd become the second unimportant. This is how we decide on Article 144 in its entirety. We're voting. Between 51 colleagues and 37 of them voted in favour and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. On page 52 of our review, we have two amendments to Article 145. Anybody want to talk about them? A proposal from the SDS Group of Members is also tabled, but it is irrelevant. We will therefore vote on the two tabled items that we have on the list in the order recorded. First of all, on the proposal of our colleague, Victory Jelinčič. We're voting. There were 51 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. Six votes in favour and 31 against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 31.]] In such a way that the proposal of colleague Jelinčič is not accepted. We vote on the Government's proposal for an amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 30 votes and 4 against him. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are voting on the whole article. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted. 35 supported the proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have three amendments to 146. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote first on the amendment under order number 1 on the 52nd page of colleague Rudolph Petan. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted. Seven of them were in, 32 against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 32.]] The proposal is not accepted. Under order number 2, we have the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and we vote on it. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 33 supported by this proposal, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. And under order number three. I take it that it has become a witness to this adoption of the amendment by Comrade Jelinčič. We are voting on the whole article. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 39 were in favour, and 1 was in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. As of 148th Article, we have only one amendment - the governments of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on him. 53 colleagues and colleagues were voted on. 42 supported by the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] It has been accepted, so we can now vote on Article 148 on page 53 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present, 35 voting in favour, no one objecting. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] The proposal was adopted. As of the 150th article on page 54 of our review, we have two amendments. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the proposal of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Excuse me? A contract? I'm calling off the vote. This is where I heard the objection. Would you like a word, Comrade Battelli?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	I have a note, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	/Consultation/ Yeah. The comments were substantiated. We can only vote on the amendment under order number 2. Secretariat - what comment? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the government's proposal, the amendment under order number 2 to 150. We're voting. 54 colleagues and colleagues were voted in favour, 39 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] We are voting on the whole article. 54 colleagues and colleagues were voted in favour of 35 and 8 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 152. Anybody want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	I would only like to remind colleagues and colleagues that we have discussed this change for a wide discussion and I would ask you not to support in this article of this amendment that we remain in this dictatorship of Slovenian authors.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll vote yes. [[...]] My colleague Mogo. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	I would only suggest that we vote on this and support this amendment, so that the article is open because there are now three articles that need to be corrected in the third reading by a dictatorship that will be sufficient in our territory and in the European Community. That's why we support the article, so much so that the amendment is open.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Two different arguments. Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	I find it very difficult to accept this argument that we leave some of the things that we are having a thorough discussion open to. If solutions that are primarily related to the relevant terms are shown, not so much for the purposes. Because the ministry is on, I'll say, the same position as the one we object to. Then I think there will be no problem, Mr President - just as you let this air law go - in fact, to make a correction of the expression resulting from other solutions. I am in favour of being consistent in some discussion, at least one marriage from the beginning to the end. I would like even more to be in the full mandate. I think it may be a complication, but given what has already happened at this meeting, I think it can also be done as an editorial. Otherwise, someone will be able to use this argument differently, and he will say: yes, because Parliament has decided twice, and the third time otherwise. It is never necessary to explain in the minutes why this is open. I think that here is the dignity of Parliament to stand behind its positions of motioners and also of Parliament later to seek an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 152 on the 54th page of your review. We're voting. 53 colleagues and colleagues were voted on. The proposal supported 29 and opposed 12. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 12.]] So it's accepted. We are voting on Article 152 in full. Procedurally. Am I interrupting? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	I'll just explain my voice because it's too bad. I will, of course, vote against the adoption of this Article. In this way, this article will also be open to cleaner solutions. Speaking of opening something up, it's better to wipe it out and find a new one later. Because it's, I'll say, some kind of inconsistencies that we're going here, with this benevolence to do something quickly, while we have a thorough discussion. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are voting on the whole article. We are fully voting on Article 152. 53 colleagues and colleagues voted. There were 26 in favor and 15 in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Article 158, please, on page 55. - on the next page of the review, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? If that is not the case, I am closing the debate and moving on to the amendment of Article 158 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to the 55th page of the table. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 14 voted in favour and 30 against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We still have to vote in full on Article 158. We are voting on Article 158 as a whole. 52 colleagues and colleagues were voted on. 39 were in favour, 3 were against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We're going back to page 54. May I have your attention, please? We return to page 54 of your review, to the amendment to Article 159, tabled by colleague Jelinčič. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the amendment of colleague Jelinčič to Article 159. The proposal was supported by 8, 34 Members and Members of Parliament from 52 colleagues and colleagues. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are therefore voting now on Article 159 as a whole. We're voting. We are slowly approaching the end of the vote, so that a little more concentration and this extensive law will be passed in a second reading. The vote was 35 and 5 against 52 colleagues. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. On page 55, we have a proposal from our colleague, Rudolf Petan, to Article 163. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll vote. His proposal was supported by 12 and 29 of his 51 colleagues and colleagues. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on Article 163 as a whole. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues were voted on. 29 supported them, 7 opposed them. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a new 167.a. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the proposal on page 55 of your review. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted, 35 supported by the proposal and 3 not. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We also have a proposal for a new, this time 168a Article, of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Fifty colleagues and colleagues voted. 15 voted in favour and 28 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We have one amendment to Article 169, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. The vote was 33 and the vote was 9 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The proposal was adopted. We are voting on the whole article. We're voting. Between 50 colleagues and their colleagues, 30 voted in favour, 6 opposed. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 171. Anybody want a word? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 1 on the 56th page of our review. We're voting. Between 51 colleagues and colleagues, 39 votes in favour of the government's proposal and 2 opposes it. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Government also proposes an amendment under order number 2. We're voting on him. Of 51 colleagues and colleagues, 33 voted in favour, 7 opposed. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment under order number 2 has been adopted. We are voting on the whole article. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. Thirty-two in favor, five in favor. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. That is why we can vote on the whole article. Excuse me? I'm sorry. Let's go to Rule 172. Anybody want a word? This is the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the 57th page of our table. [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and we vote. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the amendment 34 and 7 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand he's been accepted. And now we are voting on the whole Article - on Article 127. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 31 in favor and 5 in favour. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. One amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was proposed by Article 176. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the Government's amendment to Article 176. Thirty-six of the 50 colleagues voted in favour, four opposed. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. 36 were in favour, 2 were against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we're on the back of the amendment review. We will first decide on the proposal for a new 177.a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Excuse me. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and we will vote when the "display" is over. [[...]] 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. The vote was 34 and 7 opposed. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] With this we have adopted a new 177.a. By 178th Article we have two amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Culture Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Only so much that it's worth supporting someone else here, not the government. This is because it excludes Article 178. In short, one who excludes only the first, given that the Telecommunications Act must still apply in the event of an invitation to tender because we have thrown out the entire public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	If the first amendment is adopted, the second amendment is irrelevant. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 178 on the last page of page 58. Please, we're voting. There were 52 colleagues and colleagues present. 3 supported this proposal, 37 opposed it. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 37.]] The proposal is not accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of 33, 4 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Therefore, we are now voting on Article 178. We're voting. I find that 52 colleagues and colleagues are present, 36 were in favour and 6 were in favour. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that we have also adopted this article. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Nobody wants a word. Since no one wants to say another word, we are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote. 52 colleagues and colleagues were present, 42 were in favour, 2 were against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the title of the law. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted on the bill's title, 39 supported it and 1 did not. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] The title of the law has been adopted. I am putting forward a proposal for a decision in the debate: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll decide. We're voting. Between 52 colleagues and their colleagues, 41 votes in favour, 2 against him. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We have two more proposals for conclusions. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I propose that the National Assembly adopt an additional decision to draw up a proposal for a media law for a third hearing in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? You can justify it because I see a few questions about the content of this proposal. Can you briefly substantiate this proposal? Please. Mr. Secretary of State. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	In this way, we can speed up the preparation of the draft law for third reading and at the March meeting, the National Assembly can already consider the draft law in third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Good. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on this proposal. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 36 voted in favour and 3 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A proposal for a decision was tabled to the Socialist Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the positive and negative effects or consequences of the merger of the Broadcasting Agency with the Telecommunications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the third time." Anybody want a word? Yes, Dr. Bayuk. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I don't want to repeat all these arguments, but I'm sure you remember when we discussed these articles, it wasn't clear that the government didn't have any concrete data with them. We would like all of this - because it is finally just a position that has also been adopted, that this will be sufficiently explained - and that the positive and negative effects of the proposal which the Government has itself brought will be re-examined. I hope you have them and there can be no problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and we vote. 51, 37 supported them, 9 opposed him. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Another decision was put to the decision by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of re-inclusion of the Broadcasting Agency for the third reading of the proposal of the Media Law." That's not possible. It's irrelevant? Thank you very much. You're withdrawing. With this, we have exhausted all decisions on this agenda item and I conclude it. In accordance with the agreement reached during the last break between the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will now move on to the next agenda item, starting with 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, UNDERTAKINGS OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the President or the representative of this commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The home work body shall propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted. 43 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour, no one objected. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This Decision is therefore adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to the ratification package. First on the 17th. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Act on the Succession of Agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the Republic of Turkey, which remains in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Turkey. The draft act was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the representatives of the government. I am talking about the proposal for an act on the succession of the agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the Republic of Turkey. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft act was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. President, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss any more and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft act by the beginning of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that the National Assembly will only vote on the proposal for an act in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on this proposal. 52 colleagues and colleagues voted. 42 votes in favour, no one objecting to the proposal. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that we can vote on the proposal for an act. We're voting. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. 42 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed act is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE DEBT AGREEMENT BETWEEN SLOVENIA AND UNITED KINGDOM - NUMBER ONE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want the word representative or the president of his mother's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Emissary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss any more and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[Nobody.]] Because no one wants to, we will vote on it. Let's vote. I note that 51 Members and Members voted in favour of the 42 proposed decision, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] And that's why he was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 51 colleagues and colleagues voted in full on the bill. 43 votes in favour, no one opposed him. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on the readmission of persons who have illegally entered and/or illegally entered the territory of their countries. The bill was proposed by the government to the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Which of the Members or Members? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss any more and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? He won't, so we're voting on him. There are 50 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 43 colleagues and colleagues voted, no one opposed the proposal. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] That's why it's been adopted. We are voting on the bill as a whole. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. 46 colleagues and colleagues voted in full for the proposed law, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is to the defence of the bill on the ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Worst Forms of Work by Children and to such action for their purpose. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? Also no, I'm closing the debate. No amendments were tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, so I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We are voting on this proposal. Fifty colleagues and colleagues voted. There were 47 of them for, no one was against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. That is why we can vote on the bill as a whole. The bill was fully voted on by 50 colleagues and colleagues. There were 41 for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 21. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking with mothers, psychotropic substances and precursors, terrorism and other serious criminal acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do they want to speak to the leader of the parliamentary groups or representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I propose once again that the amendments have not been tabled before the opening of the hearing, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213, to conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We will vote on this proposal. We're voting. Fifty colleagues and colleagues voted. There were 41 colleagues and colleagues for the proposal, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 37 for it, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Canada on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. He wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The chairman of the committee? [[No, no, ……]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Leaders of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] We will re-vote that we are fully voting on the bill. Anyone want a word on this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on this proposal. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. The vote was 43, and no one was against it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We can make a full decision on the bill. We're voting. The bill is fully adopted because of the support of 43 of 50 colleagues and no one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Strasborski Agreement on the International Classification of Patents. The government has proposed this law. He wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The chairman of the committee? [[No, no, ……]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I propose that we vote in full on the law. I put this proposal to the vote. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. On the proposal to vote in full on the law, it was stated - for: 44, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] This way we can vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. 45 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 24. Period of the agenda - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Danube Agreement on the International Classification of Figurative Elements. The bill was tabled by the government - he does not want a word. The chairman of the committee, or the representative, the rapporteur? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Leaders of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I propose that we also vote in full on this bill. Who supports such a proposal? We're voting. The proposal to vote on the law as a whole was supported by 44 of the 50 colleagues, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are voting on the bill as a whole. The bill was fully voted on by 50 colleagues and colleagues. This proposal was supported by 43, no one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I also conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 24th A-point of the agenda - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE 25-year-old ORGANISATION FOR SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE. Member Jelko Kacin and Roberto Battelli submitted a proposal for a declaration to the assembly for consideration. Any of them want a word? [[He does.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! 25 years of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe have passed in the previous millennium, and last year the situation has ended. Our procedure for dealing with this declaration was delayed in 2001. As a result, amendments were also necessary, so that the text was edited. But I'd like to highlight two other things. The Republic of Slovenia has already indicated long before that it wants to play an active role in ensuring security and cooperation in Europe and is therefore running for the presidency of this organisation in 2005. This goes far beyond the mandate of the National Assembly of this reference, but there is now another step to be taken, to add another stone in the mosaic of our candidacy, and so I ask you to support this declaration in as large a number as possible. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation has always played an extremely important role in Europe, as well as in the Mediterranean, and that it is simply that organisation which the Russian Federation recognises to solve all the complications. In all the complications of enlargement and cooperation, then the Organisation for Security and Cooperation has always been an alternative, a framework within which all European countries could agree and agree on their strategic objectives. So, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support the declaration that we have made with Robert Battelli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Do you want a word in that sense? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would just like to say that the government has dealt with and fully supports the proposal for a declaration, as it has been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Heads of parliamentary groups or representatives? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! At the fall of the Berlin Wall, some predicted the extinction of the OSCE. But it happened the other way around, and the conference became one of the most important of the regionals. It has developed its parliamentary dimension, played and plays a key role in strengthening security and cooperation on the old continent and beyond. Through the early detection mechanisms of crisis hotspots, until they are managed, through the consolidation of human rights and freedoms and democracy in general, through efforts for sustainable development and solidarity and social stability, the OSCE is increasingly acting as a key factor in peace and progress. Slovenia has expressed its wish to chair this organisation in 2005, which is an exceptional challenge. This is, in the opinion of everyone who is familiar with these things, a much worse challenge than the presidency of the UN Security Council. Such a goal will therefore only be achieved if this challenge becomes a concern of all the relevant factors in the country; hence, if it is a genuine national project. I therefore ask you to support this declaration, together with the amendment of the Foreign Policy Committee, which also includes the amendment of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-02-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on individual amendments. We have an amendment to the committee you have in your report. Anybody want a word on the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide on him. [[you have the text of the amendment in the report]] . We're voting on the amendment. We've got a problem with the contagion. Can any of the colleagues and colleagues in the lobby please come? We conclude the meeting by sharing some happy news in this regard; perhaps there will be a few more minutes of work together so that we can conclude. This meeting was just taking place during the holidays, but we worked normally, and it seems to me that it was actually a success that we put the February meeting, which was very extensive, under the roof as we did. I suggest we wait two minutes. Good. Please place your cards in the voting devices to determine the lockdown in the hall. There's still not enough colleagues and colleagues. That's the last decision I'll make if I subtract the one that's talking about postponing points. Let's figure out what we're talking about first. 47 colleagues and colleagues are needed in the hall. Now we decide on the amendment. We're voting on him. There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. There's 41 for it, no one's opposed it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. And we are voting on the declaration, at the 25th anniversary of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in its entirety. We're voting. 47 colleagues and colleagues voted. 38 were for, no one was against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the declaration has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. I suggest we finish break 32. On the agenda, these are love, naming, and to decide on the proposal of the Council of Justice for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Ms Mojca Mlakar Šimunič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the election and appointment committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? She doesn't want to. Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Members and Members of Parliament. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Mojce Mlakar Šimunič to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. 47 colleagues and colleagues voted, 39 in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. I conclude this point and, finally, I propose that we decide on the postponement of unfinished points. I think we had 32, 8 of them. As it is said, at the time of the parliamentary holidays and we had many large agenda items on the agenda, it is not possible to say that we have not held this meeting successfully. We're gonna have to postpone the eight points. It's 6, 8, 10, 15, 25, 27, 29 and 30. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to the 4th meeting of the Assembly. This proposal, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, may only be made clear by representatives of the groups of Members, and it is not possible to discuss Members. Does the president have a word here? He can say something. Because this is a proposal concerning point 30. I think it's right for me to say two words. It is a proposal to appoint a secretary-general. As with other matters concerning the constitution of this National Assembly, as with this proposal - the same is true for the working groups - I think it is right that the State Assembly, with a large majority, elects a candidate or candidate. I think that this option exists at the March session and is for me as a candidate, but I think that for the entire National Assembly, it is much more important that, given that the National Assembly is normally working, we get a candidate or candidate in this position who will enjoy the majority and our trust. And so I decided to postpone this point, and I hope that we will do a good job for the National Assembly, which will work together for four years, and it is right that it represents the home of all the Members and Members and Members of Parliament and the Professional Services. I propose that we vote on this proposal after the postponement. There were 46 colleagues and colleagues present, but 40 and 2 did not vote. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. And ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, I conclude this meeting of the assembly and wish everyone a pleasant weekend.
