ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Peter Levič, Yuri Malovrov from 17:00 on, Igor Štemberger, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Stanislav Brenčič, Victory Jelinčič. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. We're moving on to our presence. Quorum! I note that 64 Members and Members are present. That's how the assembly is concluded, it can decide. At the meeting, I welcome representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's follow-up to the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 11th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001. Then the assembly will move on to the 12th item and then on to the 13th point. That is also all that can be done today. Tomorrow we have an extension of the National Assembly meeting at 2 p.m. when the remaining items are processed. That's it. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Summer Plan for Development and Maintenance of Motorways for the Year 2001. The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like a representative of the government? Perhaps Mr. Shaina, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of highways for 2001. At its 33rd meeting, on 21.6.2001, the Government adopted this proposal and sent it to the National Assembly. The basis for this annual development plan is primarily the rebalancing of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the law on public roads, the law on the provision of petrol tolar funds and the law on the implementation of the 2001 budget. It foresees this annual plan to implement part of the construction, maintenance and management of highways in 2001 of 73 billion 954 million Slovenian tolars, which means only 47% of the estimated value compared to the national programme's rebalancing. These funds cover 15.2 km of completion of motorways and the transfer to the market, the continuation of 37.5 km of road construction, the initial work at 62.2 km length, and the pre-activity required before construction at 46.4 km, and the final work on the so-called highways from 1994 to 2001 in the length of 192.2 km. So many motorways have been built since this national programme. 46.5 billion tolars will be used for the construction itself. These are the options that the state of Slovenia can implement at this time for the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, and this is a reflection of this current state. In the annual plan we also envisaged some necessary activities to accelerate the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and give it a new impetus. This is in particular the search for alternative resources, the search for other options, the creation of a more realistic plan that will reflect the actual capabilities, both operational and financial possibilities, the improvement of the toll collection system and the credit repayment system and, of course, the important transport policy system, as well as the solutions to other problems identified in the implementation of this programme so far. Dars has also submitted to the Ministry of Transport an analysis of the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. This is now in inter-resort coordination and, in the short term or in due course, this analysis will also be the subject of discussions and a basis, a fundamental basis for drawing up a balance, if we can call it two, or an amendment to this programme. After a discussion in the Infrastructure Committee and in the opinion of the State Assembly Legislative Secretariat, the Government has adopted two amendments and we propose them. Firstly, in point 1, it added that the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 was an important basis for the development of this annual programme. And another amendment that further explains the relations and roles in maintaining and managing motorways. These two amendments are ready and are also on your tables. I wanted to briefly highlight the starting point for such a document that is before you in the debate. I explained, of course, with colleagues from Dars at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for an annual plan was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as a parent working body and forwarded a proposal for a decree to the assembly. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On 26, 28 and 18 July, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment addressed the proposal for a decree on the annual development and maintenance of motorways for 2001 sent by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly. The Committee on Infrastructure considered and took note of the reports on the implementation of the Dars programme for 1999-2000 and the two reports on the allocation of funds on the earmarked use of State roads set out in the national programme for 1999 and 2000. The 1999 report on the implementation of the Darsa work programme was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 30 January this year. The Committee also considered the opinion of the Dars Supervisory Board of 30.6.2000. Following a brief discussion, it was agreed that the Committee had taken note of this report and that there was no reason to place it as a separate item of the agenda for this meeting when we considered the annual programme. Our debate was on the report on the implementation of Darsa's programme of work for 2000, for the reasons we heard from the Secretary of State regarding the use of these funds. In a discussion where the members of the Committee were very critical of this programme, the following has been highlighted: This report should be more clearly stated how the ability to remove backlogs and deviations from the plan by concrete measures and how to find a solution to this effect in the 2001 plan. It also seemed very positive to me on the other hand - self-critically found that three years ago the motorway national programme was burdened with the costs of modernisation of other state roads, which, of course, also accelerated the way in which money was somehow spent more than we planned. We received detailed explanations from the representative, mainly from the President of the Dars administration, who in particular drew attention to the situation surrounding this. After the debate, which, as I have already said, was quite controversial, five conclusions were adopted. That is to say, the Committee took note of the report but disagreed with it. Furthermore, the Committee was of the opinion that this report is also considered as an integral part of today's item as far as necessary. And that the Committee supports the findings and guidance of the Darsa Supervisory Board, especially in the part where it is said, how to take more account of the delays that have arisen in this area. The Committee expects the Government to respond to the guidelines adopted by the Committee in its previous reference on 18.6.1999 when the toll system is being considered and renting for the use of the road space. In addition, as I have already said, the Committee has considered two reports, on the allocation of funds, on the purpose of spending on the construction of state roads, as set out in the 1999 and 2000 national programme. The Committee agreed that the second report for 2000 could also be considered as an integral part of this point today. At the three subsequent meetings of the Committee, the Committee considered a proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001 sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly is expected to accept this matter at today’s meeting. In the course of the debate, we also had before us, in addition to the Government's material, the opinion of the Committee on Law and Legal Affairs, which also points to some of the things covered in this report. In particular, the debate highlighted the need to raise the issue of adequate funding for this financial demanding project, in particular in order to provide a source which would be stable and long-term or as defined in the core document. It also followed a warning that the optimization of the toll collection system should be developed as soon as possible in terms of a fairer definition of all users of motorways and fast roads. There has also been a lot of talk about the lack of good marketing of space and accompanying activities. It is only 250 million SITs that we can survive annually from this address, even though we know how many facilities we have along the highway. It has also been noted that the annual plan should be discussed at the beginning of the year and that it is actually difficult to change much at this last moment because we are already in the 7th month. The proponents replied to the questions raised and also ensured that we will get a more detailed analysis of the state of play of the motorway programme with possible scenarios to be prepared by September of this year. The Committee has also defined up to six amendments as contained in the report. He only supported the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Richard Beumann. Finally, the Committee adopted two decisions. In particular, it proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001 be considered and, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 24 of the Law on Public Roads and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopt a decree on the annual plan together with an amendment supported by the Committee. And a second conclusion. On the basis of the comments and opinions of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the Committee proposes to the proposed annual development and maintenance plan for motorways to prepare all amendments for consideration of the draft plan at the meeting of the assembly. Well, as you've seen, we've been given amendments to the government and we'll decide on them today. The Committee also adopted two additional decisions. In order to propose to the National Assembly to adopt two additional decisions, the National Assembly expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take concrete measures as soon as possible to improve the collection of tolls on built motorway sections and to make more cost-effective use of rents for the use of public spaces. And a second conclusion. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be the starting point for the rebalancing of the highway national programme, as long as it is prepared, to be presented to the National Assembly no later than the submission of the State budget for 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Presentations of the positions of the groups of Members are next. On behalf of the DeSUS first, Mr Delak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable National Assembly! When we started building motorways in Slovenia years ago, we could say that we were quite naive, but also gullible, because we believed the applicants, at what time and for what costs we would build motorways. It is also true that we have had virtually no experience, neither with operators nor with landowners nor with local communities. Someone's gonna say it, but that experience wasn't important. How important they were, because the one and the other and the third ones I mentioned were those who increased the cost of building the highway. In view of our inexperience, we have also set ourselves up with very unrealistic hands. Well, regardless of this general conclusion, we can find that the matter is only ongoing. It's a lot done so far, it's a lot of construction, and some say our highways are beautiful, in short, beautiful highways. I will focus on just one problem, which is probably not the main issue in the construction of motorways, but our Group of Members is aware that it is very important. In fact, too strong lobbying, which shows that we are building one part of the highway at this end of Slovenia, the other part at the other end of Slovenia, that we are starting to build something, that this is a matter of drag forever, not that we are starting to build a section and then we end it. In some ways we will crush and in the future we will have to realize that we will not be able to build all roads in Slovenia at once, that someone is the first, someone is the second and so on, and that we will need to take account of the economy, which I think is very important, after some highway is built. These are our general comments. It is true that we would have a large number of comments, but there is no point in me explaining them in a long and broad way, because I know, of course, that at the end of the day we will not be able to unite for all these comments. I can conclude that our Group will endorse the programme for further construction, which means that we will support all the conclusions proposed by the Government or the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Sok will speak on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Transport! In front of us is an annual plan for the development and maintenance of Slovenian motorways. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to say that, in fact, there are two shortcomings in this matter. The first drawback is that this development and maintenance plan is adopted in the second half of the year when, in fact, construction has already begun or is being carried out in the highest intensity, and however the National Assembly would like to amend this plan, it would of course go into something that would ultimately mean economic damage. And so, of course, it's impossible for us to do something like that. However, it is worth it if I assess this document myself, this act, at least in order to get to know how things are going and that we can talk about what is wrong with the construction of Slovenian motorways. Another disadvantage of this annual plan is the lack of alignment with the national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways. However, you have in fact accepted this non-conformity when you adopted the budget at this meeting at night. It was clear at the time that it would not be possible to do so. I know that at the time of the presentation of the Minister of Transport, then for Transport and Communications, because the liaisons were still in this ministry, I ask if, under any assumption, the government will not give sufficient financial attention to this area, or is willing to step down. I must say, he didn't answer that question. But I'd be thinking of something like this from his position at this point in time. This is because the Slovenian national programme has not been implemented in the way it was planned for the last 2 or 3 years. See, for the year 2000, around 103 billion Slovenian tolars should be allocated under the Slovenian national programme for the construction of motorways. In fact, we have dedicated 73 of them and they have not yet been fully used. The consumption was about 95%. This year, as has already been said in the introduction, we are dedicating this programme instead of the projected 156 billion to only 74 billion, which is just a little more than last year, which means that the funds in this area are falling in real terms. However, with such a financial "support" we only implement 47% of what was envisaged. However, if you go to look at the national programme's rebalancing brother, you can see that the country should accept only 10% of the derogation in the national programme, both on the financial side and on the physical scope of the service, over a period of four years. Thus, in just one year, this provision from this national programme goes beyond strong. In order to be able to complete 400 km of motorways and fast roads by the year 2004 or by the end of 2005, they should be able to build about 80 km annually, and in fact, as stated by the Secretary of State, they will be dedicated to the goal of about 16 km of highways this year. And if we're going to build at this dynamic and at this rate, of course, this desire to rebalance the date or deadline of completion there by 2010, by 2011, is unrealistic. I hope to say at such a pace that this road programme will not be completed until 2025 or perhaps another year later. Look, I have before me a report by the Darcy Supervisory Committee, which states in its report: The national programme balance adopted at the end of April 1998 is not being implemented. The annual scope of implementation is significantly lower than planned. The deadlines for the adoption of the regulations on the location plans have not been met, the project documentation and others, the investment technical documentation has not been produced within the agreed deadlines, the problems in land acquisition have increased, investment valuations have changed, the beginnings of construction on individual motorway sections are very late, the provision of financial resources for the petrol toll and tolls are not realized in accordance with the planned dynamics and in the planned scale, even the conditions for the return of the loans have changed. The basic conclusion of the company’s management is that the programme can no longer be implemented by the end of 2004, with final parts by the end of 2005. And then they conclude that it is a realistic assessment that the programme can be implemented between 2007 and 2009. Once again, I do not believe in this last sentence, and I think that there is a real expectation that we will end this by 2007 and 2009 is not possible unless, of course, we do not significantly increase the resources for the implementation of this programme. It follows from all of this, and as has already been said here, that the authors of this programme obviously planned wrongly, that some things were underestimated or not properly included in the national programme's rebalancing. Therefore, consideration should also be given to whether these same authors will be preparing the next rebalancing, says another, which has already been discussed. We have recently adopted an act on transport safety in the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, and we have written in this document that we want to do so by 2005, although this seemed unusual to me, but the programme states that 210 dead people are expected in 2005 and until then we need to build, I don't know, how many cycling paths and pedestrian corridors and so on. Therefore, given that we do not provide enough financial resources, it is clear that we will also not be able to implement this national programme and that, like the national highway construction programme, there will be only one act written down on our papers, theoretically very well, and in practice not viable. The Republic of Slovenia does not have enough money - this is the basic conclusion. At this point, it is said that tolls should be increased or additional toll stations should be introduced; it is said that a gas toll should be increased, even though we can listen from day to day, and today we have heard that the government is making good increases in excise duties, the use of any price of gasoline or dollar appreciation and the same value of excise duties. The law states that 20% of all taxes should be spent in a gas toll, and I personally wonder why not. Why is this not being done as recorded? In the fact that the debt of the State is increasing, it is now three times higher than when Slovenia became a single state, that is, larger than the one that was the head of the population in the former Yugoslav State. In any case, there is considerable economic damage, as they are not respected in the national programme for the views adopted. When driving on Ormož-Ljubljana, I see the most difficult situation on the route Ljubljana-Trojana. In fact, there's probably a lot of other places, but there's a whole year on this road -- a column of cars that we can't possibly reduce. At this point, the government is thinking about awarding concessions, but I think that, given that it has actually started all over Slovenia, there is something to build on all sections, with any possibility of concession building significantly reduced and I do not know how this programme can be implemented today, but certainly this idea of government in our party we support. Finally, because I come from a demographically threatened area, I would like to say that the Slovenian motorways are part of the programme as well as the road Slovenska Bistrica-Ormož. This route was adopted and signed as a parallel part of the fifth corridor in a transport agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. However, if we look at the resources involved in this year’s plan for this construction, we can see that the government is also not serious about the matter. The biggest problems on this route are certainly Prague, for which 100 million tolars are to be allocated this year, and with these 100 million tolars are to be carried out, as stated in this programme, archaeological excavations and land purchases on almost 6.5 km long bypasses. Clearly, with 100 million tolars, this cannot be done. Another pressing problem is the roadblock of Ptuj. Traffic is increasing on Ptuj and the government should solve this problem in the near future. The third issue which I would like to mention and which I am particularly concerned about is the adoption of a road construction plan from Ormož to Gorišnica in the national programme last year. In fact, I am concerned about how easy the ruling coalition in this year's programme - which it originally for, in the first programme it sent us - has already provided us 800 million - so it is now paying off this construction, despite the fact that archaeological excavations have already been done on this section, despite the fact that the land has been purchased from farmers. And if you are not going to provide funds for the start of this construction, then I would ask you to provide at least enough resources in the national programme so that those, I would say caves and those initial works there will be settled and the farmers can return to the country if the road is not built. Otherwise, an amendment has been tabled and I would ask you to support this amendment. Because of what I have said, our party is committed to adopting a new national highway construction programme as soon as possible, which will, of course, be based on some realistic assumptions. We also propose that the government prepare as soon as possible a rebalancing of the national rail infrastructure programme, as this railway programme is even worse than the motorway construction programme. I think that everything from 1992 to this day was only realized at 15%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Malovre on behalf of the SLS+SKD. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Honourable Presidency, representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, representatives of the Society for Motorways, Members and Members! In 1996, we adopted a national programme for the construction of motorways, and in 1998 we also adopted the first rebalancing, given that there was always a lack of funding for this form of infrastructure. This year we are adopting an annual development plan in the second half or in the first month of the second half of this year, which is quite late, because all the calls, all the works and all the rest and all the construction machinery should have been done long ago if we want to implement this programme. When we made a rebalancing in 1998, and if we look at some data in the annual development and maintenance plans, I could say that we did not provide enough funds already in 1998, because we provided only 88% this year, then in 1999 85%, in 2000 it was already reduced to 69%, and this year I think to 47%. This suggests that the government has not always had a very serious approach, and even in this year's annual plan, for some sections or stages, the lengths that we have set ourselves in the past are quite different. Well, in our SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party there are many Members, particularly from the eastern part of Slovenia, quite dissatisfied. By asking questions from this address, or some amendments. Although our Group will support the 2001 annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways, it makes sense for us to adopt national programmes, both on the construction of motorways and on the railway programme. For if we set something for ourselves, we should at least approximate ourselves to those goals that we have set ourselves in the past. Otherwise it is a kind of blurring industry, then the constructionists and even the expectations of the citizens of Slovenia. Well, once again, I stress that our Group of Members will, otherwise, support some with a little bit of clenched teeth, the Annual Development Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will support the annual programme for the development of highway maintenance for 2001. The annual plan is the result of or is based on a national road construction programme. Given that we are in July, we estimate that this plan needs to be adopted as soon as possible and thus allow the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia to continue. With regard to the construction of motorways in Slovenia, we expect, for the first time in the LDS Group, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will prepare an adequate balance of the national highway construction programme as soon as possible, because we believe that this is all that is needed. Secondly, that we will treat the 2002 annual programme together with the 2002 budget as one of the development documents. As the 2001 annual plan takes into account the criteria of necessity and urgency, and in some ways sets the priorities for the construction of motorways, we will not support the amendments tabled in the LDS House of Members, and we will support the proposals for additional decisions of the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Our Group of Members, the Social Democratic Parties, notes, as well as some others, that the document before us is a real proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of highways for 2001, regardless of the time of the adoption of the State budget, although somewhat or quite late in the consideration in the National Assembly and so on is a document that is adopted "post festivals". In particular, I must also point out that we find that in developing and adopting the development and maintenance plan each year, we get somehow different documents, modified, which are completely different from the national highway construction plan. We note that all these changes take place mainly on the basis of political lobbying and that they have absolutely nothing to do with a profession where it is necessary to respect, in the first place, the national programme for the construction of motorways. We also note that the construction of motorways is not somehow carried out through a system of continuous construction, but is built through different sections, smaller sections, so that it is sufficient for certain political interests, and there is absolutely no effort, neither the existing authority nor the contractors, to try to build continuously and complete some sections and then, of course, start new ones. It is only possible that I could briefly mention some of the data that are very drastic and that are falling into the eyes and that need to be mentioned in this annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001. In fact, we see, of course, like everyone else, that there is no follow-up to the national programme for the construction of motorways and that this trend is essentially below 50% according to the national programme. If we just look at the relationship over the last four years, how much funding has been earmarked for the construction of motorways, we find that in 1998 there were 42.9 million, in 1999 61, and then, of course, instead of taking into account the extent of construction that is ahead of us and the early construction and, of course, the economic and economic effects that the construction of motorways would have brought us, we see a fall. In 2000, at 58.3 billion, in 2001 at 48.6. The national programme foresees only for 2001 as a comparison of 116 billion tolars. All other indicators also show that we do not really follow the national programme. The only one item is very interesting and somehow even exceeds all expectations. And that's the "engineer" line. In 1998, 1,597 billion were planned for engineers. 2.4 was used. In 1999, an estimated 1.780 billion were consumed 2.1 billion. In 2000, 2,100 billion were foreseen, used 2.5 and in 2001 2.3, consumed 3.1. Therefore, according to even half of the plan of the national highway construction programme, the costs of engineers have substantially increased. This shows that there is something very serious wrong with this system and unfortunately we have not carefully analysed these things in the past and, of course, we have also tried with the commitment or conclusions of the National Assembly and with the annual construction monitoring plan to correct certain shortcomings or errors that have occurred in this project in a timely manner. Of course, there is now a new rebalancing of the national programme, which I hope will still somehow be within an acceptable framework, says that we will be as far behind as possible the national programmes adopted so far. That is why our Group will, of course, strive, because our assessment is that the rapid construction of the system of motorways will actually bring better, faster economic development and, as such, will have a positive impact on our country's economic and fiscal policy. Of course, we expect that certain cases that have not been dealt with in this period will also be adequately resolved, as is evident from these plans and analyses and data. So that the tolls will be properly accounted for, that proper systems will be put in place and that - as has been predicted so many times, but this has not happened - the system of construction of motorways can be built with certain concessions. For we know that the state of Slovenia, as such, is not in a position to take this burden on itself with budgetary resources and with credits, because it is too much, and that we must use other elements, and we hope that this will be taken into account in the national programme's rebalancing. At the end of all this, I would say, of course, that it would be right for this national assembly - if not the national assembly, but at least our parliamentary group - to be held accountable by those who are actually guilty that the national programme for the construction of motorways is not realized that it is in such a delay. Here, of course, it is necessary to make it clear that the policy option, which has been at the forefront and authority throughout this period, is the key responsibility for failing to implement the national programme. Now, of course, he has recently also been involved in this debate by a long-standing president or leader of the Liberal Democracy Group of Members, and he said that he was indeed sorry that he had not been involved in this project before. For he himself estimated that the backlogs were too high, too large, and that, of course, it would probably be now that he had taken an interest in the matter, that somehow the project would be more accurate and even more rational after dynamics. In short, in fact, an analysis should be carried out as soon as possible of where the obstacles are, why the national programme has not been met, and the responsibility of all those who have served as ministers and of all others who have been employed in these services should be firmly held accountable. It is the personal or our parliamentary group that estimates that it is not possible to blame the Ministers themselves, who were from the People's Party, but mostly on those who decided on the finances, but it is known that they were mainly ministers of liberal democracy and that they are in fact the most responsible for the fact that the national programme for the construction of motorways has not been implemented to the extent that citizens of Slovenia expect it. Unfortunately, it is also present that poor options have been chosen, that expensive options have been chosen, that there are huge interventions to the space that would not be needed if certain routes could only have moved about 50, 100 metres in a different direction. However, there has always been political decisions and a wide range of billions or maybe 50 or 100 billion will be needed more because of the costly way in which they are built, because of the lack of respect for professions as well as other elements that could contribute to the construction of motorways being significantly cheaper. In short, our parliamentary group will support the amendments that will contribute to speeding up construction on certain sections in order to implement the 2001 motorway development and maintenance plan and to speed up this programme in certain sections. For other things, we expect that, as in the Committee's conclusions, all these comments, which have been made, will be taken into account with the national programme's rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Yuri, the combined list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We once set ourselves the task of monitoring the implementation of the national highway construction programme annually, by adopting the annual programme, the annual plan. We will also do this this time, or at the moment that half the plan is already behind us, the reality is already over. Of course, we will confirm the full realization and also what follows by the end of the year. This task will also be done by us in the United List of Social Democrats, and we are particularly looking at the final implementation of the national programme, especially what we will take credit for in 2004, when we leave when we finish our mandate. And we will also then compare how much in this mandate we have realized the "vis-a-vis" of the previous implementation. I'm afraid, of course, in the light of the circumstances that the realization will be smaller, it may be in line with a more realistic view of the national programme itself. We have a rebalance ahead of us, we will pay very close attention to this proposal, and we hope, and we are already calling on the government not to revise the implementation in the rebalancing, but - or not to revise the priority - to focus on the possibilities for the realisation of individual sections. The priorities have already been set, in our view they cannot be changed, followed by two criteria: the fifth corridor, which is the first priority, and, of course, the economic calculations. We therefore also support the conclusions of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which call for improvements in the toll collection system. We need to increase revenue, resources, otherwise we'll still be late. And today we can all regret that, in the past, let's face it, planning for the construction of motorways was not the most appropriate, that realisation was even less, that is why today we are very late and the delays will continue in the future and that is why today we have increased costs of this realization, and this is a huge increase. Obviously in the past, everything was not well planned, prices or assessments were wrong, and of course today we are trapped in this situation. We can't, but we can, of course, improve that part - and when there's a rebalancing, this moment will be the right moment - which tells us how, in which direction we'll go with the dynamics that we've determined, forward and with which resources. And so, of course, we will be very strict about all those rules of conduct that should apply in such cases. Like my colleague Malovrev, of course I have a bitter taste when we decide on these things, I am also pressing my teeth. But, of course, we have no choice but to vote this year's programme and call on the government, of course, which will be in the balance that will allow for further realization in accordance with the dynamics that circumstances will allow us today and tomorrow, and in line with, of course, the expectations of our economy and our integration into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. These were presentations by the parliamentary groups. Ah, the SNS, Mrs. Areh.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. The SNS Group will support the proposal to maintain motorways. Like some parliamentary groups in the SNS, we do not understand why the differences between the annual programmes and the national programme are increasing. We expect urban coordination [[?]] programmes in the shortest possible time and a clear picture of the further time and content development of motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen signed up for the debate: Kebric, Tisovic, Zupan, Trophynik, Mamić, Jerovšek, Gerenčer. I have so many written reports. These discussions are not time-limited but are substantive. For the agenda item is the proposal for the annual plan. So, the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways is not a national programme. By asking you to limit yourself to the agenda item in your discussions. Thanks for understanding. We're moving on to the first debate. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. I will really limit myself to the annual programme, which is the agenda item. However, experience has taught me from my previous mandate, when I was also a member of the Infrastructure Committee, and I find that certain issues, both problems and reasons, are repeated. So I can't go through with this, and I wonder if this is actually a realistic plan ahead of us this year and whether it can be implemented. The fact is, we always come to the point that by lobbying or by such or other prior integration into the plan itself, and at the second stop with amendments certain things change and question the full realization of the annual plan ahead of us. The fact is that it is likely that the whole plan for the construction of the motorway was unrealistic in two respects. Unreal in terms of finance, unreal in terms of deadlines. If we accept this fact, then we need to focus on this point of what will happen this year. Will we be able to make up for anything, or will we be able to settle the whole matter both financially and on time, and, of course, under the new problems that we will face when they settle the accounts if they do? I am particularly interested in the responsibility of the leadership of Dars for this plan, because I know that many are valid reasons. And I also know, from the practice so far, that they will find, under the terms of reference, sufficient valid reasons to justify why it was not possible to do so or why a certain item was financially exceeded or also time-consuming. I believe that we must once get to the point where responsibility will be put at the forefront in these matters. But not responsibility without sanctions, responsibility with sanctions. We will no longer accept such excuses and excuses in this national assembly, but we will be setting out who is responsible for what, who is responsible for what, and what will be the consequences of this address. Look, we know that certain lobbyists always refer to local communities, "do this to us, otherwise we don't give our consent to the location." They are accepted, from experience I say, into certain plans of things that are not quite clear, it is not clear at all, for example, the route has not yet been redeemed, but the funds are being booked. Then we are faced with the fact that certain finances have not been used at all, while it is likely that there could be much more realisation of this money on another basis if this is given clearly and so on. I think so, for the record. The question is the reality of this plan. In particular, I am interested in the positions of the Head of Dars and, of course, of the Minister of Transport, what certain amendments will mean, which we will either reject or accept. Are they going to mean that something is going to be exceeded, that something else on the other hand, which would be very useful and necessary, is going to fail? I join the opinion, and I reiterate that it is imperative that we stop that way of building highways, that at every end of the day we have something, and in the end we do not have a financial result, because if we finish a certain route for which everything is prepared, we could also collect the toll. Gentlemen of Dars, you're going to have to lay down our accounts, you're going to have to pour us some clean wine, why on some parts of the route you're paying when the highway is built, on a very short route, just over 10 kilometers, tolls, and another ten miles of nothing. You're gonna have to answer that. I would like to state my right, once we have your realization back on the wallpaper, to prepare yourself for these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! Today we received a programme on the development of the highway program in Slovenia. It has been six months since we have been in a deep crisis with regard to this programme, and we are all clear. The highway is built here and there, there's no system, maybe some right approach, one would say. Road traffic is increasing, and it is increasingly burdened, even with freight traffic. We are geographically in a very interesting position in Europe, so the trend can increase but not decrease. At the same time, all I could say is that it always comes to mind when I see a whole column of trucks ahead of me, why you're not diverted to rail traffic. However, when I think of our railway infrastructure, I am passing away because our railway infrastructure is neither trained nor connected so that we can redirect all of this to this part and thus unload the motorways. The other thing that bothers me is that there's no money. They could not allocate more money in the budget than they did, at least so they claim. Okay. Taxpayers and road users - we all pay a certain amount of money for this. Is all this money really being spent on this or not? That's what we have to ask ourselves. But the other thing is, the government can also look for other sources of co-financing, such as private partnerships. If the government had a nice, clear vision to implement the road programme, it should look for all these resources, especially now that it is making a budget for two years ahead, to give priority to this problem, to be resolved as soon as possible. If we don't have road infrastructure in place, we're going to have a lot of problems with integration into Europe, because we're going to be somewhere on the tail together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable representatives of the government. Colleagues and colleagues, welcome. Allow me to participate in the debate on the agenda item - this is the annual programme for the maintenance and development of motorways for 2001. First of all, I would like to point out that this programme is in line with the Public Finance Act, Article 22, a development programme and should be considered or submitted for consideration in parallel with the budget. That didn't happen. We are considering it on 24 July when, under the same law under section 63 of the Public Finance Act, the Minister of Finance should report to the government and the government to the National Assembly on the assessment of the implementation of the current budget. In addition, I estimate that there are no conditions for normal decision-making on the annual programme, as we have not received reports on last year's implementation or rejected it as inadequate because it does not provide basic answers, why individual projects last year have not been implemented, why some have been implemented to a greater extent than planned and similar. This is the basic framework that should be met, the conditions to be able to take a responsible decision on the annual programme for this year and to take appropriate measures or findings as to why the annual plans or annual withdrawals from the national programme so substantially deviate. If the government had also submitted the mentioned development programme or development programme for the maintenance and construction of motorways for this year at the time of the budget, then it would have been a questionable decision in this well-respected assembly to reduce to 28, with at least 35 billion petrol tolls, because, of course, the consequences would have been known then, without the consequences of such a decision being met in the middle of the current year. In such situations, the National Assembly does not decide on the annual programme, but only assumes responsibility for the annual programme. The annual programmes themselves are decided elsewhere by some parallel decision-making system or some parallel power centres. At the time of consideration of the annual programme in the home labour system, and otherwise, there is too much talk on the balance, but there are no answers or questions as to why and what it would take to make the annual programmes realistic and to keep the annual programmes in line with the national programme adopted. Annual programmes are nothing more than annual extracts from the current national programme. With such a programme for this year, someone without signature and clear responsibility actually executes a "step by step" even in the last two years of the national programme's rebalancing, although we are aware or unaware of it and indirectly or directly assume responsibility for such a "step-by-step implementation of the balance" under the designation, although no one has actually decided on it. I'm going to go one way. In principle, I support all those points of the proposal of the programme, which focus or are based first on the current balance or, rather, on the national programme in force, are as much in line with it as possible and seek to implement it as quickly as possible. However, I would like to draw attention to one direction, as was already the case in some debates today, in the direction of Slovenska Bistrica - Ptuj - the Croatian border, I would rather say as Ormož, because if I say Ormož, it is immediately localistic. Allow me to quote the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Economic Community, adopted and ratified in this House in 1993, which I quote in Article 5, "for the Community and Slovenia, it is particularly interesting to develop the advantages of highways and railways, which will determine the use of Slovenia's own resources and co-financing of the community for projects in these directions." First indent: "A motorway in the direction of the southwest - north-east, from the Italian border to Šentilj on the Austrian border, via Postojna, Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, forward to Lendava on the Hungarian border, through Slovensko Bistrica, Ptuj, Ormož and Ljutomer." And not to read the whole article, but to conclude that the Parties have agreed that their common objective will be to harmonise as soon as possible the main transport links referred to in the first paragraph. Why am I pointing this out? All other sections of the previously quoted agreement or paragraph are, in one way or another, in one or another dynamics of realization, only the direction from the Slovenian Bistrica via Ptuj and forward towards the Croatian border is given some special treatment. Today, two critical sections have been discussed. Let me remind those who have forgotten or do not know that four critical points were identified in this direction in 1993, namely, the section of the highway in Slovenska Bistrica, the out-of-military crossing of the railway line in Prague, the out-of-war crossing in Ptuj with the railway line and the outskirts of Ormož. To date, three or three of the four black points for which a foreign loan was leased have been realised. This loan was not fully used for this purpose due to inadequate preparations for the implementation of that programme and, I hope, was unintendedly spent on overlays of state roads across the Republic of Slovenia. However, in the annual programme for last year, I quote, "for the section of Gorišnica-Omomož, the following activities will be carried out in 2000: production of documentation, property legal works, works, works of land, road construction, drainage and bridge facilities". The Darsa report for last year, which is not available by the Committee, states: "In 2000, PGD, PZI and PZR projects were completed, an investment programme was confirmed, a plotation was carried out and land and facility purchases were carried out, archeological excavations were carried out in the Heindl area and payments were made to compensate for land-use change." This report or this paragraph in the report is, of course, incorrect. All that has been written here, except for the last one, has been done, and nothing says that a public contest has been held, that due to a complaint about the choice of the contractor has become a legal decision or decision on the contractor this year, and that this section is the same as the four projects in last year, namely the Vučja vas-Beltinci, the bridge over Drava in Maribor, viaduct over the Market Bistrica and the mentioned section. The difference is that, in all cases, the decisions on the choice of the contractor were valid or established at the beginning of this year, that for two sections in the construction, without any indication that we are not misinterpreted, the Vučje vas-Beltinci and viaduct via Tržisko Bistrica, the Drava bridge in Maribor is still in reverse, and the fourth project simply disappears, although the government adopted a temporary financial plan for Darsa this year, 7.2. 7.6. adopted one proposal, 11.6. the second proposal and 21.6. the proposal that we have or today is the subject of consideration or decision-making. Despite the repeatedly asked question on the parental committee, in which there is a difference between these proposals, I have not received an answer, so I will say so myself. The difference is only in this section. One time he's in there, another time he's gone, he's in there again, and he's gone again. I'm sorry for the somewhat unserious presentation, but unfortunately it is. Of course, the proposer presented to the committee the criteria under which - I say conditionally - he would draw up this year's programme. That is, the transport burden, the possibility of phased or phased construction, the work done so far and the resources available - I agree, although I think that a development component should be equally among these criteria, because the construction of motorways is not only directly in function in a narrow sense of the importance of transport needs, but it must be, and is also, in fact, a function of the development of individual areas, not to speak of so far-reaching regional development, for which this National Assembly has decided that 1% of GDP should be allocated this year, and in fact, tens of these resources, or 0.1%, are provided in the State budget. Nowhere in these decisions that are not justified, because it is simply projects that have actually started last year that disappear from the programme, there is no response to transit traffic, because it is a direction both in the sense of the fifth corridor and in the sense of heading south, from Bistrica via Ptuj and forward towards Varaždin is a known European direction, the so-called Podravska highway, which becomes more important every day, not only in terms of transit to the east, but also towards the south. This response is also not given and denied for three years by the report prepared and chosen and agreed with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia the direction Varaždin-Ormož-Ptuj as a link between the two systems of the two motorways, after which the border of Slovenia is only 15 kilometres away from the Croatian motorway system, in the direction of the Zagreb-Major border and otherwise, in other directions to Europe, and of course it does not find the right weight and responsibility in Slovenia, although the current Minister of Environment and Space in some way initialled or in accordance with this section, where this section begins, the new Schengen transition between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. I would like to draw attention to disagreements, to the flat-rate assessments expressed by some colleagues, which are at the same time that local communities in the Republic of Slovenia are being blackmailed into building motorways and want some local infrastructure facilities to be regulated at the expense of the state budget or the burden of building or implementing a national programme. By myself, I categorically reject generalisation and protest against it. I know, and I believe that these are cases, but please don't put them on the hooves for the whole of Slovenia. Not as a thank you, but as an information that we have all the spatial acts, all the studies to the location plan for these sections have been paid by the local communities and that there is no local community requirement on this section and the next, except for the partial refund which has been made for some costs and far from - and that this is significantly different than the custom and custom elsewhere in Slovenia. Allow me, on this occasion, not to advertise again, although it is likely necessary, to explain the amendment. I, with a group of Members, tabled the first amendment for this section, which is in the spirit of the government's decision, not on 7 February of this year, when it adopted the temporary financial plan of Darsa, which is still the only document in force at this time. This is to start with 800 million tolars, which is a poor half or 48% of the sum foreseen in the national programme. Why? Since I am checking with my colleagues that objectively given, that less resources are available this year in one way or another, and that, of course, you are able to approach these funds professionally, because the nature of the construction is such that it requires the construction of two or three bridge buildings and thus can be carried out in a slow way. I upgraded this amendment today with an amendment that reduces this by 300 million, which is a minimum, because it means about 30% and gives some quality. What quality? It removes the impossibility that in the middle of the first-class agricultural area, the building site is, according to the local word, a weed that enables the construction of a crossroad or a link between the existing main road Ptuj - Ormož and further towards Croatia and, of course, a link to the already built suburb of Ormož and the construction of economic infrastructure, since, in the immediate vicinity, arrangements at least run, a new Schengen transition between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. At the same time, at the same time, it enables the elimination of those incomprehensible decisions, whoever they were, that certain costs were recognised, paid land, partly paid-up change of destination, depending on, I will not explain at this time from what, but not by any logic. The reality of these amendments is that we are taking it on the spot or in the direction it is right now, I agree, the most problematic. But it's just a premonition. A section in which, of course, it would be possible to use these funds at this section if they were not before the fact that the operator was not selected and, of course, the assessment is that the available resources at this section cannot be spent by the end of the year. This is how this amendment needs to be understood, and it is by no means necessary to slow down this direction by implementing the annual or national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Allow me to make some suggestions myself to solve the problem of developing and maintaining motorways if you want to for 2001, although we have only five months left. Every day I drive to Parliament along the highway west and have a chance to see a lot of things. The toll payment system should encourage permanent road users to use motorways and not other parallel roads. On this section of the highway from Postojna to Ljubljana, something has already been done in this respect. The competent were able to listen and lower the toll to Vrhnika, so that interested drivers did not mass stand out on Brezovica, but continue to drive to Vrhnika. I think we should do the same in some other cases. I think it would be right for Slovenian drivers to be a little less burdened with tolls than foreign drivers. It is important to take into account that Slovenian drivers do not contribute to motorways only through tolls, but also through taxes and contributions, which foreign drivers do not do. I suggest that for users of the electronic toll payment method, while I think of the ABC system, discounts should be increased, since the ABC system is almost exclusively used by Slovenian drivers. On the other hand, we would like the ABC system to expand and include other options and forms of toll payment, which would also be an excellent incentive to increase the use of motorways. Another thing I'd like to mention. I think the government should ensure the principle of equality in the collection of tolls. In Slovenia we collect tolls on most highway sections, but on some we do not. It is in the country's interest to capture the widest possible circle of highway users, as this will also lead to additional means of construction. The next, not yet sufficiently exploited source of financing for the construction of motorways is efficient marketing of facilities along highways. Most Slovenian stations have a more clavicular image, which I cannot claim for objects on the route from Postojna to Ljubljana. After 30 years, the buildings were demolished and rebuilt, which not only means a better image for the eyes but also an improved offer. In all of this, the level of revenues from petrol services and other facilities along highways should be thoroughly examined and real rentals paid to you. In particular, I would like to highlight the prices of construction services in the area of motorway construction, which is an old topic which should be improved in any way. Due to the lack of competition, we know that operators, at least some, have had monopolistic profits, with low productivity and delays. Although things are turning out better, there are still large reserves in this area. And in the end, I'd like to make an observation to Dars. There are fiber optic cables on the highways, but they are not properly occupied. At the same time, electronic traffic regulation on our roads is weak and minimal and already reduced investment in electronic control and regulation systems could significantly increase the flow and safety of traffic on Slovenian motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! The debate somehow began with the "we were naive". I might have answered that question myself: the government has certainly not been naive all these years, and the electorate is likely to have done so several times. This was especially evident in the preeminent battle, the promises made and fulfilled by certain humans. Now let's ask voters how pleased they are after all these years. It seems to me that the national programme, as far as the highway is concerned, I have a feeling that at the beginning the construction strategy was somewhat lacking. Today we see well, for example, if we look at the whole length of the Šentilj-Koper road, where the stoppers are. The stoppers are mostly from Postojna or earlier, from Vrhnika, for example, because in Kozina that narrow road no longer consumes such traffic and it is normal that the stoppers and columns are even five, six kilometers, and sometimes more, stop and so on. If that piece of road could have been made in the opposite direction first - the government was probably afraid, because this is an extremely difficult section, because there will be a large viaduct in the future when it is made, and the tunnel, and the karst terrain, we know that it is not gentle, but it would be easier - such stoppers would certainly not have been because Ljubljana would have walked as they are now, even to Ljubljana they are not, here I mean foreigners, not all sections are finished, but once they start going against the sea, then there would have been no more problems and of course the toll would have been collected also to Kopra itself. This would also be an open window somewhere in the world. I'm sure that's what I'm sure of. As far as the dynamics of the highway are concerned, we've already heard that it's going to be 15.2 kilometers this year. I hope there won't be another 15,2 next year, because one section is running and it will end and so on, otherwise I don't know how many works will be completed. It's true that there's a heavy section over the Trojans. I can't get past Stunning. I'm sorry. I don't know how many new roads will be built in 2002. In any case, it looks like this thing is going to drag on for a very long time. Speaking of highway construction, I've mentioned this famous gas tolar so many times. I have also received answers, from Mr Gaspari forward to the Minister of Transport and so on, but I cannot avoid feeling that where we need money, let us give it from where it comes from. Whoever's paying him doesn't matter that much. The answers are that the VAT problem has arisen. Before the VAT, that money didn't go where it was supposed to go. It must have been three, four years, it was starting, the first year when the petrol toll began to collect 87 percent, it is said that 13 percent of the state retained the mortgage each year were more. Thus, in seven, eight years after my free calculations, the state retained 180 billion. If we now had 180 billion at our disposal, I think the highway program would probably be somewhere near the end or at least the key things would be over. I don't know, I'm not an economist, I'm not a financier, I'm not in this line of work, but what I'm talking about with people who understand these things well, it seems to me that very, very little talk is done. We won't get the Concessionaire for Razdrto-Dunning, because it'll never pay off the one who would invest the money. The more beautiful parts of the road are actually made, so this concession is less favourable to concessionaires every year. What do you say at the end? To support the program, because we have no other option, in the hope that next year the money on the highways will be called petrol tolar, tolls and the fact that it would be as much as possible would be, it would be good to have everything spent for its own purpose, and that percentage should have risen to at least 80 percent if it had to stay in the country something. Let's hope that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today's explanation of the road development and maintenance plan was somehow initiated by a government representative, saying, "these are the possibilities and reflections of the current situation". However, this performance did not say why this is the current situation; we did not receive these critical analyses. However, I took part in the debate on the Committee, where Members, both government-type and opposition, have served for a number of reasons why such a situation is, why the national programme is not being implemented, why we are always late and do not implement programmes. Today, too, a number of parties, especially those in positions, have been present in calling for a national programme to rebalance. Why the balance? It is necessary to say why a balance is needed and in which case this balance would not be necessary. It is certainly true that we Members sitting here at the second programme have already confirmed one balance and it seems literally humiliating to accept the national programme's rebalancing in such a short period of time. In fact, the rebalans wouldn't be needed if it were actually planned. The longer we build a highway program, the feeling is that it is more unrealistic to plan, that the impact of all possible lobbying is greater, and that it is pulling on every side. A rebalancing would not be necessary if the proposals of the profession were actually taken into account in the selection of routes, rather than subject to the pressure of the ruling elite. Let me give the most drastic example of the Trojan section, where miles of highways have been built today, if they did not succumb to such political pressures and if they had been won a disruptive option; this has not been won, although they were very serious and good professional bases and are also timely. Nor would there be a need for a rebalancing if independent expertise and reviews - indeed independent reviews - were to be carried out in time - and if there were no unhealthy solidarity in the selection of projects and previous designers. We know that choice and review often take place in virtually the same circles as is unacceptable, and as a result, designers can in many cases afford to pre-dimension, which also corresponds to operators who like to be tied to the same site for as long as possible. Unfortunately, neither designers nor contractors are in some way obliged to think primarily with some national pride, with national responsibility. They are simply pursuing their interests, and if there is no political and actual responsibility here and if there is no actual review, there will be anomalies. There would be no need for a rebalancing and a call for a rebalancing if the selection of operators were to take into account the principle of a good master, if it were actually to be auctioned in the selection of operators and if some operators did not already know in advance that they could offer a low price and would succeed through the annexes in the final realization and sale of projects with enormous increases in budgetary values, and if some operators knew that the budget value +10, 20% of that final option was the maximum option. However, if it is known that there can be up to 200% overruns and that this is already more or less general practice, then it is impossible to choose or work a cheap highway in such situations. I told the board last time, ladies from the Ministry, gentlemen from Darsa, we need to take a look at the highways in China. I'm sure you'll learn a lot. I was there with our delegation. Although, of course, it's not drastic and strange - look at yourself and go take a look at that pattern. Nor would there be a call for a rebalancing if there were severe professional supervision. This means that under the heading engineers would not increase costs and reduce the quality of control. I recall the debate in this National Assembly, I think that, two years ago, when my fellow Member, Mr Ivo Hvalica, proposed that you reduce the number and the percentage at that time by half and trust him with the supervision that he will bring the best Swedish supervisors and guarantee that the supervision will be carried out professionally, and that he will then leave the mandate in the middle of the mandate. He was right! However, trends are going in a completely different direction. This percentage of the position of the engineer is constantly increasing. Pre-budgetary overruns are also growing. There's no correlation here. I think that this is a real reflection of a situation, which is also illustrated by the quotation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the preparation of the professional basis for the rebalancing of the motorway national programme under the supervision of the Supervisory Council, which was sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the Dars Assembly. He says: "The annual scope of implementation is significantly lower than planned, the adoption deadlines for the year in the location plans have not been realized, the project documentation and other investment and technical documentation have not been produced within the agreed deadlines, the problems in land acquisition have increased, investment value assessments have changed, the tendering procedures for the submission of works have not been carried out in accordance with expectations, the beginnings of construction on individual motorway sections, are very late..." and so on and so on. This, if there was no signature, would have been said to be an exaggeration of the opposition, but that's from under the control board's feathers. In fact, we can think that if the Supervisory Council writes something such that the actual situation is even more critical. I also add the opinion of my colleague Anderlič on the committee when he said that he was, I hope to quote him correctly, a fool so far because he supported the plans and reports that the ministry and the company for the Dars motorways carried in this house. That's why I'm actually a little surprised today by the lethargy I see here on this side. Indeed, at that time we unanimously found that this practice was not going any further. I also expect some working atmosphere on this side that we will not be in favour of projects that, as a result, have the most impact on the financial effects of this country, on budget spending, so that we will really work and also accept this with a certain degree of criticism and realism. For this reason, I am surprised at the view of the Head of the Group that we have heard today the Bianca support for this annual programme, which, as we know, the Infrastructure Committee disagrees with this report. Such a decision was taken on a committee which was quite unanimously adopted. I think that if the ruling position seriously thinks with its explanations of the rules of procedure, if the main things are to take place in committees and commissions, then this matter that took place there is binding. Then it makes you take a serious approach, not a prop. Yeah, this is where we need to clear the development and maintenance plan of the highway. I'm afraid this, this anemia, is due to pressure and lobbying. But, fellow Members, if we are not consistent in what has been said on the committee, if we do not clear this programme, then we will all find, sooner or later, as Mr Anderlich has stated on the committee, that in a year's time, we will find that we are all fools. In view of this situation, it is also the right time to ask for responsibility back, and the time for the Minister to think in such a state. I'm surprised he's not here with such an important and financially decisive position of his ministry. I do not know why he is detained - but I warn him that sooner or later he can become, if not another, a tragic figure at the Ministry. In fact, it is time to hit the table with such a condition, hit the table at the Ministry, hit the table at Darsa, and that the practice that has so far been known on the Committee, as well as in this National Assembly, is cut short. Actually, here's where you have to hit the table, not that we're gonna hear, "Yeah, because he hit home on the table," that's not enough. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because of all that I have said, what I have heard on the Infrastructure Committee, what I have read in the reports of the Supervisory Council, I am not surprised that there is virtually nothing in the national programme of the adopted item in this year's plan for the development and maintenance of motorways other than the beautiful item, so the road programme from the Slovenian Bistrica via Prague, Ptuj, Ormoža, to the Croatian border. The speakers are already my predecessors, and I will focus on the part about the Prager Oblast. As you know, this ring has been placed in national programmes, as well as in the annual plans, on a number of occasions it has been placed in the top of the list of priorities and was then placed several times at the last moment with beautiful promises, saying by showing the pigeon on the roof, moved, overridden, postponed. I think that in 1999, the last such case was when the European Bank's already approved funds for reconstruction and development focused on other things, on overlaying the roads, but still the promise was made that the next year, in 2000, works would take place normally. Of course, we are now in 2001 and we get in these papers a proposal for some beautiful operations to work on this section, it's called archeological excavations, to complete project documentation and so on. In fact, I have in my hands the documents signed by Director Janez Bozič, who were sent to the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica last year, 30.8.2000, a timetable for the continuation of activities on the outskirts of Prague, which clearly assumes that we will begin construction works in August 2001. That's exactly the time we are. Now we have a plan of beautiful operations on this route. And another letter, which is also in the municipality of Bistrica and Kidričeva, which says that reviews of projects have been carried out and so on. And at the same time, it says here in this document that this is just supposed to happen. So respected colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you are taking the developmental component of Slovenia seriously, that you are aware of the economic importance of certain sections of roads and main roads, you have been warned of this at least several times from my mouth, and that the closure at the Prague station, through which the road Slovenska Bistrica - the Croatian border, is something unheard of, something unbearable. By increasing traffic, we are again approaching this transition to the daily release of prisoners up to 21 hours. You used to wonder at that as if I were telling you things that were unverified, but that's what happened. This transition takes place in the ranger station zone. When wagons are scattered at the station, prisoners are enormously long laid down, and there is a blockade on this road of economic life, such as this road that connects such significant economic pools. For this reason, I have also tabled an amendment to move from the stage of beautiful operations to the stage of the start of the purchase of land and the start of construction works, in order to increase the item from 100 million to 300 million in real and real terms in this budget. Just to finally stop taking years off. I have no guarantee that this is the final decision. We are, if we do not want to be declared fools, those who need to start implementing the national programmes that have been adopted here. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I am firmly convinced that he will prevail, the working atmosphere that I have experienced the last time in the Infrastructure Committee, that he will be aware of the responsibility for the Slovenian road programme and that some of the anomalies will also be carried out here in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Another final debate, which is timeless, Mr Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The annual plan for the construction of the highway programme is ahead of us and, it appears, we must also accept it because it is already a month of July towards the end, and at least now let us give operators the opportunity to work smoothly by the end of the year. In Slovenia there is much talk about the highway program. We, who are a little younger, will remember road issues from the far 60s, when there was a lot of window dust due to roads in Slovenia. Even now we are somehow returning to that time when all citizens are interested in this highway programme. And that's right. After all, we lose a lot of people on these roads that are rude, where they are inadequate for the traffic that flows through them. It is therefore appropriate that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, do everything in its power not to delay or delay any action on this programme, but, above all, to exercise a supervisory function and to help the government and the ministry to make this programme as effective and realistic as possible. I think we should talk today, and there has been a lot of talk about this from many of my colleagues and colleagues, how to proceed with the funding of this programme. We have already begun a thorough debate on the Committee, which has mainly drawn attention to two aspects. These are the additional funds to be collected and the tolls to be collected. And, of course, at the edge of the discussion at that time, about additional resources, from parallel activities on the highway. A respected colleague of Zupanov also summed up her debate on this. I think we should be careful about these three things. If I start with a gas tolar, a colleague and a colleague, less than half of this collected money is about a highway program. Once we have the budget back in these benches, sometimes we forget about the highway program, and we see education, we see health, we see culture and everything else, and we forget about this segment. Let us be self-critical that we have not done enough when we have adopted this budget so that it is not as entangled as it was. It is therefore important that, now that the programme is being prepared, the 2002 budget and the 2003 vision to think about it. The next question is tolls. That was a talk today. We talked about this a lot on the board. My opinion is also a call, colleagues and colleagues that we must ensure a level playing field for all participants in transport in Slovenia, that we are all paying the toll. When we enter the highway program, that is, the roads that are from this program to pay the toll. Look, only 2/3 of these funds are collected. A third was lost here. That's so much and so many billions that could be directed at building itself. Many, this debate, which has also taken place here today, will not be pleased because they can drive through these relationships, not for long, but for free. But if I'm talking about equality, this case is very loud and we have to solve it. Mrs. Zupanova said very well, but we've done enough on the road. Or someone, I'm not going to say, rich, but creating some extra profit because we didn't know how to expose real prices to these objects around the highway. I think it's the Ministry's job to look into these matters a little bit and then come from a higher line, and now we only have 250 million from this title. This is far too small or could be said to be a negligible figure in the national programme. There have been some speeches and some objections to what local communities can do to make this programme more quickly implemented. Colleagues and colleagues! Let us be honest, and let us say, and let us acknowledge that there have been a lot of blackmailing around the highway program. I think we should agree from now on that we are state-of-the-art in all areas, in all local communities and that we are looking at the construction of motorways. Now let's leave all that we can get through. They also tell us at home, if, now you're letting up when others have built, and we're getting such a bad payoff for some country. But the state will have to make things more serious and more responsible so that we do not get some bad things in this area. The highway cross is what it means for Slovenia to have an alpha and an omega, I'd say. It connects our provinces. It must be done that this motive, which was also somehow realized when we accepted it, will be realized and that this development component in our region will also be realized. Turning these routes back into large and small ones, as has been said with fear today, what will present the balance, is probably a time shift and a greater financial means for me. But it is up to us to ask ourselves and the government to find solutions to how to find additional funds. There was a lot of talk about that today, and I support it too. As far as the work of our committee is concerned, I must say that I am pleased with the members of the committee, as far as the contribution and commitment to the work of our committee is concerned. We will also perform part of the control function in our work as regards the highway program. However, we will take this function as a function to help the ministry or the government, so that we can all work together to move this programme forward faster. It was about the working atmosphere. Likewise, we have a working atmosphere and I hope that it will be in the future, especially in this direction, as I have already said. There'll be no misunderstanding. My respectable colleague Trofenik was talking about a highway that was supposed to run across Ormož and the Hungarian side. I would just like to remind you that on 15 November 1995, a national programme for the construction of motorways was adopted, which was established by the North Corridor. This corridor then moved towards Maribor, Lenart and the Hungarian border, so there will be no misunderstanding. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right to support this national programme with all that has been found. This has been a rich experience of how we will react to such a program next year. But above all, as I initially said, we help performers to work smoothly, and this program is also carried out as much as 100% as they set it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replo has a Member of the Trofenics.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Thank you. There'll be no misunderstanding. I was quoting an international treaty. The national programme changed only in that the direction remained constant, but instead of the classic highway, there was a fast road, if we want, lower rank. Dear colleague, my reference to the four cases, one of which is under the table, but the others were solely as an example, and in no case did I quote the section of the Wolf Ves-Beltinci, need not understand my implementation as anything against the construction of this section. The fact is that it is in the same substantive and legal position as the section of Gorišnica-Ormož. The report even states that the construction works began in the autumn of last year when there was no legal basis, because it is legal, since the choice of the contractor was only a year, and I wanted to illustrate unacceptable methods and methods of decision-making, and nothing against any section in it in this sense. Of course, to allow myself another, a little mean. I understand that - I agree with this - the construction of the entire network, but I would not argue about the highway cross, because it may be a mystery what anyone under it understands, but the adoption of the highway construction programme is in the development function of the whole of Slovenia. However, if you think it will connect only some regions, then it is necessary to decide that some regions are no longer in Slovenia or areas and that they will probably have to be connected somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Member Anderlich has the replica. A debate? Excuse me! Since we have not received written applications for the debate, I limit the debate of individual Members to five minutes. The following Members were also appointed: Mr Zampernik, Mr Kelemina, Mr Bajuk and Mr Anderlič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wondered, more rhetorically, who the hell is that "bad guy" or more of them lobbying, forcing, doing everything possible to do something small on this end, something small on that end to move the mechanics to the left, which naturally increases costs and causes poor will in people. I myself wondered a lot years ago about who this is, and at the beginning of the previous term, I was sure that the National Assembly or the Infrastructure Committee was the one and, of course, later the National Assembly, which determined all priorities, where something would be built, how it would be built, how, at what rate, for what kind of money. The colleagues of the current reference, the largest parliamentary group, obviously thought the same, because I have no other way of explaining why 11 Members and Members of the 26-member Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment would be delegated to the 26-member Committee on Infrastructure and Environment, as well as to the President. Apparently, they have now come to the conclusion that they are constantly sending someone to the meetings of this committee who replaces them, that there is actually no decision on where and how much construction is to be done. Then I thought it was the minister who made the decision. If I was monitoring the mandate of the former minister, I might have thought about it - he was there for those Rače-Fram who could somehow take care of it, but he was not a "capsel" who would decide on the national programme on the highway as well as on the rest of the network. And I thought it was possible for the Secretary of State to decide; as he mentioned earlier, of course, in the context of the Minister, Comrade Jerovšek; one who can hit the table. Remember the former Secretary of State, Mr. Jaret Pregl, when someone from the bench told him to keep his voice down a little bit so he wouldn't yell, he said, "I'll scream even more, I'll hit the table!" So he could hit the table, he was the secretary of state, and that didn't help him much. Ambassador Hvalica, who has already been mentioned, has constantly bothered him to keep the offices of Rebrnica silent from their position, but I think they are still as they have been for ten years. And I was thinking, maybe it's the officials who make the decisions. Given that judges have a permanent mandate - I have met people there for decades almost, although I am still relatively young and are always one and the same people. And I thought they were making the decisions. We're getting a little closer to those mysterious power centers that Comrade Trofenik was talking about. But not quite yet. The main center of this decision is the designers and the builders, who have people in their companies who used to be there or who were there before, now have changed. And they are the real source of decision-making: what will be designed, for what money, where and how. Perhaps one of the informal leaders of the National Assembly still has a word, and the other does not. The national programme for 2001 provides for 156 billion tolars. We're predicting. Now we have the bad 74 billion in front of us. Of course, that's bad. But if you're an optimist, which I am by nature, and you're trying to find something good in every bad thing, and you paraphrase that saying that if a cow dies, there's a shadow, we can explain it here: less than money for the highway, less can leak it to such wrong addresses and strange channels and to the unknown. Of course, this is not good for Slovenia and our country. More money should be earmarked for the highway programme, on condition of course, to be spent rationally. In particular, you have also been representatives of the position today, but even more so on the Infrastructure Committee, very critical of Darsa's work and of all the issues that are taking place around the highways. They're all in your hands. You can do whatever you want, and you can change the board of directors. [[Just to wrap up the thought]] , also to replace our surveillance committee Darsa, as you recently did. I hope that such critical reports, if necessary, will still come to the National Assembly. But I am afraid that this Supervisory Committee has been replaced precisely because of the fact that such things as we have received in the National Assembly and previously quoted by our colleague Jerovšek, would no longer be received here and that we would pretend that everything is fine and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Member Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! First of all, if there was no serious criticism, I would apologize or further explain my previous performance on behalf of the Group of Members. In fact, I admit that I have provided the wrong information, and I would not want to receive criticism on the basis of this data. In fact, when I talked about the costs of an engineer, I would like to correct the statement, namely, to note that since 1999, these costs of an engineer have been constantly increasing in terms of the volume of the means to build motorways. In 1999, we had, say, 2.1% of the total value of the program for the engineer, in 2000 it was already 2.5%, and in 2001 - this data is on page 26, where it says that this year it is intended to be 3.1% of the total value. This is said to actually indicate that the costs of an engineer are constantly rising, saying, from 2.1% in 1999 to 3.1% in 2001, in fact, these costs have increased by a whole percentage in two years. And here I would also like to ask for an explanation - I think this is the correct information now - on the basis of what these costs have now increased so dramatically. This is a drastic increase; if we calculate it as a percentage, from 2.1% in 1999 to 3.1 in 2001, these costs actually increased by 50%. This is, according to our assessment, a drastic increase and I would ask for an answer as to why this has occurred, even though we have these things explained, but we still feel that this is unacceptable. The next thing I want to put it on someone's head is somebody answer it. We have spent or is foreseen for 2001, 28.1 billion of a gas tolar that is no longer available, and so on - let's leave it now, what it is or not - is said to be 50% of what was adopted by the petrol tolar law. I'm asking someone where the difference between this money went. Tell me, in fact, you do not have to tell me this, but tell Slovenian citizens where you put half of the gas toll, what investments you made, how much economic impact there was on these 30 billion gas tolls that were not invested in the motorway, and that the programme was not realized as a result. The programme was not implemented, of course, because of the many, many elements and reasons that my colleagues have already mentioned, but according to my assessment, also personal, in many cases due to deliberate delaying and placing of budget money into other projects, for other purposes explain where you wisely uploaded this money, which was not spent deliberately under this programme. I would also like to ask, see, this year we have planned to build motorways - in this construction programme for this year - 48.6 billion, that is, compared to the national programme, 116 billion, a huge difference. But plus - by including in these 48.6 billion also VAT, which was not foreseen in the national programme, and this is combined with the change in destination, here is the difference between 30 and 100, this is about 8 billion, so if we subtract that from those 3 percent that were before VAT, the construction tax, that was actually only 40, 41 billion used for motorways this year or will be used, that is against 116 billion, so to say, one third, a little more. It is said that we have actually given the national programme a third. This is unacceptable and respected, gentlemen, of course, government representatives, how can we actually implement the national programme if there are such drastic cuts in resources and there is no way that we can accept all the excuses you make with regard to land purchases and so on. Certain debaters have made it clear that it is often intentional delays only to avoid the need to provide funds and also to build certain sections. In short, I would also like the representatives of the government to explain to me these items that I have just mentioned and also how you imagine then, say, taking into account in the national programme's rebalancing [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you. It's a replica. Replica, Ambassador Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm replicating my colleague Kelemini because this calculation he gave me last time somehow doesn't work out. We have had the opportunity to hear all the time this debate about how the highway construction programme is financed and how it changes from year to year, and we have also been in the middle of a rather constructive conclusion, which is why it is changing and, among other things, we are all sitting here, or those who have sat before this assembly - we have changed and expanded this programme every year in any changes to the national programme, and we have been reducing the funds. And, colleague Kelemina, I do not see any state funding coming when we find or find out that VAT is now crushing the programme, even though we know that VAT is the revenue of the state budget from which all the programmes in the country are financed. I don't know how the state can function in this kind of account or thinking. At the same time, if I understand correctly, you mentioned the change in the destination of agricultural land, 30 percent of it gets the congregation, let's say it doesn't get it. As a result, we both know what this would mean, including with our fellow Members. But you don't pay for the state's work. And nothing changes the pace of the program construction and so on. If I'm wrong, Comrade Trofenic will fix me. But while I'm abusing a replica that I've only dedicated to you in this part, I'd like to say the following. We really are the end of July, the month of August, and it will be quick September. And today much to discuss about this programme is a complete nonsense. Either we accept it together, probably with the government's amendment - with all due respect to the others we accept - or we do not accept it, we can continue to argue over the shadow's axis. The exaggerated debate, which has been going on for a long time and obviously will continue, is completely pointless to argue about what was happening in 1994 in the basic design that was back then - until now, the matter has changed completely. And what sections were inside or not, today is completely irrelevant. Whether it was Ormož or Lenart, or whether the route was 70 or 50 km long, where it went, is completely irrelevant. But it is important that we confirm this and that a rebalancing will come before us, which will put us back on the real ground. Today is probably the third time in this House that I will quote Mr Černivec, who, in one person, has announced all this, what is happening in the country, in all years. And the balance that will happen, he had already announced the years after which the programme will be realized. And here I respect the criticism of those who have addressed it to the professional services that are preparing the programme, of course under the pressure of such and different policies that the programme has changed in a negative direction, so that the pace of momentum is slowing down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u43	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Of course, even with the share of all of us. [[...]] And today, on a broad scale, what someone is guilty of is not alive in this country, who would know who is to blame for it. Let me get this straight. Right now, we have a program ahead of us that is likely to be confirmed. I'll confirm it, even though I'm not happy with it. And of course, then we come back to the real ground, even to discuss the resources that we have despoiled ourselves - we are still doing this today when we lower tolls and so on - and, of course, to see what lies ahead for us in the future and what we can promise our voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you. Replica, Member Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Thank you. It's likely that Comrade Juban himself found out when he said he was wrong. The change of destination is also paid into the state budget and at this time the government has not released the payment for any project, as far as I know which one is in the programme. In the absence of funds, however, we would expect the government to do so. Of course, I cannot go beyond that, my dear fellow, if it is not important for you: the national programme, the international treaties and the adoption of the annual programme - then why do we accept them? At the same time, they are irrelevant, but they are still valid documents accepted by this National Assembly as an institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, look, of course, dear colleague Juban, I didn't cheat with any data. In fact, look at the national programme with 116 billion, if we didn't take into account VAT, we should increase by about 16% or 15% -- say 116 billion -- then we would get a real ratio of 116, which would, of course, be 140 to 48 billion; if not, we would have to subtract those 8 billion and then compare about 40.41 billion to 116. This, I think, is real data, is no deception. But what bothers me more is maybe your view of the actual situation when you say that we're fighting for the title of the shadow and move on and we'll find out with the balance of these things and that there's no living one to find responsibility and so on. Just because we have this, I don't know, I can't find a nice term for it, because we just never do the final analysis because we don't find responsibility because we don't want to find responsibility, all of these things are moving far into the future. And I don't need to explain all of this, just tell our citizens that the LDS, as the strongest political party in this country, has nine years of authority and decisions on all matters, has not properly assessed this possibility of construction, has made promises that have not been made and will continue to try to promise everything alive, but will not make its promises come true. Say it! Tell that to the citizens, I don't have to explain, I'll live. But what our economy, our citizens, will be like, is another question. The damage caused in this area by the failure to build the system is enormous, this is certainly for both transport and the economy, as well as tourism and various segments of our country's development. Explain this to our citizens and tell them who is responsible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Rahla replicas a colleague from Posavje. It is already true that, at the time of the implementation of the national programme, the LDS was one of the coalition parties, except of course for one period last year. It is true, however, that there is another party in this coalition government all the time, or that other parties have led this process of building and implementing the highway programme. And it is also true that your government, at the time you were in the government, retained this same team, which undoubtedly meant that this team was good and trustworthy. In short, Mr Branko, I think we are going in the wrong direction and there is no point in discussing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Bayuk. I'm sorry, Dr. Bayuk, I see that Ambassador Juban wishes to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u52	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much, because I'll be brief. VAT is a reality, colleague Kelemin, and there is no budget to be drawn up without, even in the construction of motorways. 30% of what you've been talking about is an integral part of the burden and so the change in the destination of agricultural land is one-third of the municipalities - I apologize for this error. However, I have said that we are very small in July or already in August and that, at this moment, we will not achieve great changes with great wisdom in this House, except to confirm the programme as soon as possible to complete this year. With regard to how the program changed from a billion-and-a-half-billion-dollar back then to the current 5 billion, so many people contributed either by mistake or by excessive desires, which would give birth to a strong road programme, as well as a rail programme in the country, but we contributed so much, and I also found it difficult to figure out how much someone contributed to the expansion of the programme and is today as it is, and also - in my opinion - at this rate that it is set, unrealistic. That's what I meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I cannot shake off the sad feeling of listening to this debate today, either by my colleagues or by the opposition. The fact is that today's debate seems like some kind of fire operation, but it's sad just because of any fire operation that comes too late. In fact, as our colleague Juban warned us, it almost looks like this, but it is obvious that when a person listens to the call of the shadow. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this debate also proves today that this problem of ours, how we have dealt with it and how we will continue to address the infrastructure in Slovenia, clearly calls and shouts after a different systemic approach. It doesn't make sense that we're starting a debate today about where the blame is, but it's just time to pour some clean wine. It is true that today we are at the end of July, we are debating the 2001 programme - whether we accept it or not. Having already adopted in this National Assembly, our colleagues who had this confidence before have adopted different plans, which have been carried out by will, different wills, as has been said here. And, of course, on the basis of limited resources, which are increasingly limited. And in this we come to the key question. In this National Assembly a few months ago, we all witnessed a presentation of the 2001 budget when they came here and told us all, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. They warned us both about the limitations, about the severe black clouds, about the pressure on public finances, but we moved very quickly and after a very fast procedure in one of the sessions that ended there one Saturday at a time in the morning, we just accepted what happened, and there was no serious debate about it. I admit that when I listened to the Prime Minister, I was delighted to hear him mention that we need a different approach in this area to how we deal with infrastructure. And he talked about how we need to find solutions in some way so that the private sector can come along and play a role in this area. But this joy and this transfer, and I admit to you, also that it was very short. He told us in the same breath that they would think about it this year and that we might have different approaches for next year. What I cannot believe is that a government coalition or a key party that has played the biggest role in nine years and has just begun to think, I would like to point out that it will be the first and last time that there will be some final systemic transformation in this area, just as we will have a debate in the autumn, which we are promised to have a different approach. And what do we need here? We need to acknowledge once and for all that this country has limited resources to be able to do with its own resources everything Slovenians expect of their country! They're legitimately expecting their country! We must also acknowledge once and for all that it is precisely because of the lack of competitiveness in this area that children understand and know in Slovenia that it is one of the most insidious areas of public procurement - it is happening in this area. We all know that! Once and for all, we also need to understand how we will ensure competitiveness, because only competitiveness is the right answer to those gentlemen who, at all public calls, obtain one way or another. If one doesn't get it, then give it to the other two or three, and that's how this world goes. Once and for all, we must also face whether the right approach we have so far is to establish the Dars we have. Here we have these gentlemen of the officers who have been entrusted with this duty, who write, write and write. But we do know that things will then be done differently or otherwise. Even now, in autumn, it will be time to take a serious look at whether what we have is a real answer. I guarantee you the following. If we do not do this as soon as possible, in five years' time, when other people will be sitting here entrusting them with the responsibilities we have today, they will debate in five years' time where these last kilometers can be made, instead of the 15 we are debating today. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Member Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u57	I hope that I will not leave Mr Jerovsk completely alone. However, I am sure that what the Committees of the National Assembly are doing is important and especially for those who participate in the Committee by the Government or other institutions, even if it is decided and proposals are such that they go in the context of solving problems. We should ask ourselves today whether we can even accept such a programme; simply because we accept it for something that is not valid. It is formal, but the balance of the national programme, which was adopted three years ago, has completely different elements, completely different yearbooks, completely different amounts of funds, etc., how much budget and, of course, other money will be earmarked for this purpose in a given year - from toll credits. I am sure that the main problem is planning and preparing programmes based on, of course, a rebalanced national programme, because obviously some things are being done in a way that the one who comes before is earlier grinding, which is louder, too loud, rather gets the road and so on. I'm sure the biggest problem is that we have so many sections in construction and so few sections to collect tolls. For years and years we have been proving that it is necessary to do a study and, of course, to realize the collection of tolls in Vogreska, Visno Gora, Ivančna Gorica, as soon as possible to reach Komol, where the toll station should be, and, of course, we have not even received an answer for several years. I myself have been asking the same question for five years, why the five years have not started to build the Blagovica-Lukovica, for which the section has been adopted for five years and for which financial support has also been provided. But there's no answer, there's no solution. I firmly believe that all the caverns between Maribor, Prekmurje, Primorsko, Ljubljana, etc., fall away from priority. For it is unquestionably clear to me that it is for Prekmurce and Mariborians, Ptujčane and all the rest of the first section of Trojana-Ljubljana. There is no doubt that I am referring to the national programme when it comes to priorities in terms of burdens, in terms of security and in terms of economic interest, integration of Slovenia, etc. But it's obviously not forceful. I'll get an answer - I believe - if: we work hard, we work all the years, but there are problems these, those, others, third. That's not true! In five years, however - of course, it had already begun to prepare for redemption because the route in this work was more or less clear. But this, of course, means that control over the implementation of the programme is obviously too weak, that it is necessary to sharpen this and, above all, to free these annual programmes. Listing, so to speak, if you look at this program, you will see that all the program is in here by 2015. There's something going on in all sections, but it's not really working on many sections, and it's not going to be for a long, long time. For some sections, we can certainly say that five, seven, or ten years will not come to pass. But it says here that in this year's year, 2001, we're going to do something in five months, as far as the end is concerned. I am convinced that the new administration of Darsa should be obliged to immediately do what Mr Bajuk did, I think, well spoken of preparing a proposal for reorganisation, of course, together with the Ministry of Transport, the reorganisation of Dars into a society capable of performing as an economic society, preparing a project for different funding, including other potentials and so on. There's something else I'd like to say, and then I'll have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Replica, Ambassador Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My friend Anderlich, I don't want it to pass without fixing you. I did not propose Dars to do this because I think Dars is truly incapable, fundamentally unable to actually come a day with such a systemic transformation that Slovenia needs. I expect this from the whole government, because this must be the case. But count on you to always find a responsible partner in the opposition if you really do this thoroughly, as has been the time for you to do so. Your responsibility and the responsibility of the government is to come here with the entire program. I'd like to draw attention to that. I talked about the need to bring private capital, either domestic or foreign, on the necessity of competitiveness, on greater competitiveness. But I would also like to point out that we also need consistent supervision. What is still happening is totally unacceptable to the rule of law, and I hope that we will find the right answers in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is very interesting for me to listen one by one to the other members of the coalition. The three Members have already spoken in this direction, but now it will be necessary to lay down the accounts, determine the responsibility and start different. One of them even said we blew up the program here and so on. There will probably have to be a lot of talk about this, and as far as I'm concerned, responsibilities are pretty clearly distributed. The key responsibility is to the coalition or its government; if they cannot deal inside, if they are playing with the supervisory councils and administrations up and down and there are four, once there are two, once there is someone from the opposition there, once there is no one. Now you've totally cleaned up in the control world, where you have to watch things run together; there can't be anyone in the opposition anymore, and it would be very healthy for one to be one. And now the whole time has come that even a member of the opposition is praised for a good performance, because this is a good time for you. What is happening on the highway programme, in particular after the financial function, all these matters, is the clear guilt and responsibility of the position and its governments. I take Dars here as a small part of the story; they didn't swallow the gas toll you used to have, as you once had to: where it ran out, where he went, past what we made here or here law. And I think that one of the key problems is that it's forgotten what the gas toll is meant for, and all those who think they're paying for the roads are being cheated, and then the money goes somewhere else. You will have to put this down once, ladies and gentlemen, or comrades and comrades, not only in front of drivers or Slovenian housewives. Now the ashes have been poured, which will end with heavy billions in minus, of course, and the remainder of a large number of miles. In my opinion, I am glad that this kind of debate started, but it started very late and reminds me of the anti-biocratic programme, 9 years in power of the same government or the same party and is now working against what it has been doing for nine years. Now she's going to go after her officers who have been posted on this or that line for nine years. It's the same thing right now-- ashing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Member Anderlich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u63	I agree with Mr Bajuk that it is the government that must bring about a balance and also a proposal for a new organisation of Dars. I myself thought that within Dars, there was also a need to take those measures that would, however, produce better results. After all, Dars is an investor on behalf of the state and he's the one who orders, the one who pays and so on. And, of course, from this point of view, it is not possible to exclude it entirely. I have already said, Mr Peterle, that I am on the committee, that I have lived in the faith that all the professional institutions that have brought here, first the national programme, then the rebalancing and annual programmes, that they can be trusted because there were no other warnings, nor any other findings, but I was wrong. The numbers they carried here did not hold; the priorities they set did not hold; the dynamics were completely different than planned and promised. I don't know why it started. Just because we make promises to the public - probably not because it's not a pre-election activity, but it's a serious economic activity, where it's actually integrated into a project, let's say 74 billion, as far as it's intended for this part this year. Of course, because I said two more things before. The opposition to taking on one side of you - of course I do - to reduce the toll while at the same time making amendments for additional works on those sections is a contradiction that does not go together. We want more roads and we'd pay less. Here, unfortunately, another source to me in the current relationship, as set out as the toll is, we can't see or not. Therefore, in addition to the budget, which will be present for a certain period, but in the future, the tolls will probably have to be sufficient for the repayment of credits, for maintenance and, of course, for the completion of the whole project. And that's why I'm not going to support any amendment that's like this to say so. But I will immediately support the proposal that is in the programme, so that Dars will make an effective toll system and this study, and which is a continuous study or close there in Vogrska, or close in Ivančni Gorica, or make a toll station there, are - in my opinion - completely superfluous. And it's not our place to determine the height of the toll, nor where we're going to build the fences, nor where we're going to make any connections or anything like that. This - in my opinion - co-professional questions that Dars must prepare, the ministry will verify, the government will come to Parliament and parliament will assess whether the direction is, say, Trojans or Ljubljana-Lendava or Ljubljana-Koper and so on, now it will be the turn or the second year and what is with other sections and so on. That's how I imagine it, not that we're going to be setting the toll here, but that we're going to be building, I don't know how I saw the amendments there for the passages and the like. These are professional things that I don't think would make sense to discuss. But I am absolutely in favour of this - as many of you have already said - that in the autumn we will indisputably set new priorities and put on a table of real foundations and find out how long, how much money we are able to make this goal, the highway cross. If that is not the case, of course, we will write in our annual programmes a beautiful desire and promise, and there will be no realisations anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. In just one segment, Mr. Anderlich, I'd like to replicate. In fact, in the part where you're reading to us - the opposition probably - we're putting in amendments to try to reduce the amount of the toll. All right! Perhaps he came from our side or was presented by the opposition, but you yourself know that this system, the way the toll has been collected, is not just and is not correct. We have not found this many times, and so someone suggested a possible toll drop on a section, because someone for about five kilometers on the highway has to pay, of course, due to an inadequate system, as if they had driven 20 kilometers. And that's not fair and that's not fair. And that is why we are taking a firm stand, and this was also expressed on the committee in some way - a common position - to introduce such a toll system, which will be approximately fair for all users of motorways. And that's what needs to be done. We cannot do this with an open system, but some other system needs to be put in place, see how these things are regulated in Europe, Germany and other countries and how they will be regulated in the next ten years and adapted to these conditions. But not to start reintroducing some of your programs again, I don't know what you're up to. Follow up on how these toll collection measures will develop over the next ten years in Europe. And let's be united with them, because we're not going to figure out new things. That's a fact. It's a shame we broke those toll stations we already had on our highways. We've broken down and today, of course, that's why we're losing our income. We had a different system on the fast road Celje-Maribor, which was very efficient, and they all paid and we broke that system nicely. Now we have what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u66	It's a replica. Member, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Replica to Mr. Anderlich. Unfortunately, I note - and I have listened very carefully to you when you finished your last presentation - that, in fact, as the leader of the largest parliamentary group, you have not yet advocated these radical changes that I have discussed. If that doesn't happen, you know, that's exactly what's going to happen: we're going to be looking for some smaller efficiency here or there, but still in the road program. Where are the railways? We have heard today - 15% of the national programme has been implemented so far. It is still impossible for the Republic of Slovenia to insist on this approach while at the same time achieving all the things we have drawn. It's urgent! You know, as far as the financial crisis is concerned, it's like the blanket. Of course, in the summer it can be postponed and we say: we will debate. If he's too small, he's too small. But when winter comes, it's quick to know. Gentlemen, we're already in the winter. If we don't face it, what I've already foretold will happen to us. Five years from now, our colleagues will be fighting about where they're going to make those few meters or 1 km instead of 15 instead of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u69	I stand by - if I have not been clear enough - I stand for radical change. I am sure that from the budget resources it will not be possible to build a second track of the Koper-Divić railway, it will not be possible to update the second rail network. I'm sure it won't be possible to build a highway network or anything else, but if you want a chain of power plants on the Sava, if it's infrastructure and so on. Thus, from this point of view, we have no choice but to seriously consider and to come up with a private capital engagement programme, or foreign capital, or railway privatisation, or I don't know what else we're going to do. But I am sure that the conclusion is correct and I agree with her that we will not be able to build this, at least with some real dynamic, in the future, from the budget and the borrowing of credits into the burden of the budget. I also understand that there is a commitment to the annual programme to prepare things for next year, or that in the rebalancing of highway work, this also implies how to engage other funds, not just those who are now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I remember again what that animal was there? Turtle - turtle at the celebration of a 10-year-old Slovenian statehood. Why the turtle, and why that very cute but very slow movement? A year ago, ladies and gentlemen, some of you have spoken as you speak today. Before the elections, it was clear that there was no money left behind, that things would be dealt with politically again, then you took the "ocvirka" from the Ministry, which is covered by Mr Presečnik, etc., and left the SLS with a busy highway construction. One year later, you're still only speaking on probation: now we know it should be, it won't work. I'll tell you, you've thrown a year away again. You're already late. The first drafts of the budget have already been made. How are you going to get the concession model through if you've already done the first cuts? Now that's what you're saying, Tone, just tell us yours. In the government you have to deal with this, in the coalition you have to deal now, not look nice, not make a good impression on how you realize the historical weight when the money's gone. For nine years you spend it just like you spend it and you sue yourself and you judge yourself, and we can only comment on it, because we don't have any people in any of those bodies that you could say melodramatic. Don't pull us like that!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you. Replica, Member Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My colleague Anderilch for a moment. I, of course, also tend to find another source for the project to run. However, the national programme was financially based on the Gas Tolar Act. We must first ask ourselves here why we do not implement the law as we have imposed it. If the tides were to be directed towards the national programme for the construction of the highway cross, the matter would be different than it is today. First, it is necessary to implement the Gas Tolar Act as it says, and to devote this money to this programme. Also, of course, if we find any further new sources, there is only so much plus in the direction of rail transport and rail infrastructure. Otherwise, the implementation of the Gas Tolar Act should be clearly laid down in this programme as it was intended and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you. Replica, Member Trofenic!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Thank you. I'd suggest we be serious. I use the replica and ask anyone here, says a section that is not in construction and that we should build it after the concession system in the future, when we build it from public funds, gas tolls, credits and tolls all that might be interesting - no one will stay. Tell me one thing, I apologize immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The following Members have also been tabled for the debate: Mr Tsukjati, Member of the Council of the European Union, Mr Petan. The word has been given by the Member of the Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Actually, I'm going to do a little bit of reassurance on the amendment, which is already more at the end of the material, and I'm going to first show a situation that maybe the Styrians aren't familiar enough. In other words, the sketch has a wireless connection [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Dear colleague, may I interrupt you a moment? You're talking about an amendment -- it's going to come next when the amendment comes under the number of that and that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Good. After all, I was going to get involved with the amendment and then repeat it, but in shortening the procedure. I'll call back later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Okay, thank you very much. Member Ašić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I think that today's debate in Parliament has actually shown that there is no one from any parliamentary group who would be very pleased with the implementation of the national programme and the programme for this year. I think that this must be done, regardless of the attempts of some to find reasons, guilt in mandates and the like - that this is not the most important part of today's debate, but that is the part that some of you have mentioned many times: how to proceed. The fact is that the programme that we already have before us is in some way, as Mr Anderlič has noted, a rebalancing, although it is not called that, because this annual programme does not meet any standard of a rebalanced programme that we have adopted in 1998: not at prices, not at deadlines, there are delays, there are derogations, and all of this will, of course, have to end in some way in the rebalancing that we hope to adopt this year. However, if we want to accept a rebalancing, one that will have better quality than they did in 1998, then we will probably have to deal with the complete problem of building infrastructure in the field of transport, both railways, roads, motorways, of course, air and maritime transport, because I think that transport as a whole is part of the policy of the country that we should follow, not in segments, or in this section or sections, but as a whole problem that we need to solve. If there's no room on the motorways for concessions, maybe it's on the railroad. In short, we wouldn't have thought of something to offer the profession today. Of course, it is typical, as some of you have already found, that this programme opens a number of new sections, and if there are no additional resources, either back to the petrol toll or new resources, then the programme will really be viable only there by 2020. And if we ask ourselves, who could benefit from this in Slovenia at all, then it is certain that we are not in Parliament, but probably not in the government, because we are all in some kind of mandate. But it can suit all those who have been in the process for years since the highway program has been running, which is what they live on - from designers, performers, subcontractors, archaeologists, I don't know who lives on top of it. And for a long time, this program will run, and for a long time, all of you will be alive. And we have to cut that. We must end this national programme and cut the thought that it will last as long as possible, the better it is for us; of course, not for us who sit here, but for all those who participate and may also wait peacefully, some also until the pension, that this project will be realized. But we are working really extremely slowly, and the brakes and the reasons are many. I know, of course, what was happening on the motorway section of Krška Vas-Brežje, which should have been completed by the time we adopted the balance, and after the rebalancing should have been completed this year, and now, following the annex in this, with footnote 4, if the funds are available, it ends in 2004. This is almost an impossible situation. And other sections have similar things. And since last week, we drove to Zagreb, which was a lot of us from different groups, to a football meeting in parliament, it was probably a lot of people's eyes that Croatia had a highway, of course, on the Obreje. And I remember an anecdotes from the year, I think that in 1996, when I was mayor, I hosted a Slovenian-Croatian mixed commission to deal with border problems and infrastructure problems. At the time we presented the project of building the border plateau Obrežje, the ideal design of the economic terminal and, of course, the highway through our area. That is when the Regulation on the Location Plan began to be drawn up. At the time, Croats looked at us in a tiny way, and they said, "Well, you know, we're at war, we don't think about it yet, we don't know when or how we're going to do it." They have a highway since last year on the Coast, and we adopted a location plan in May this year. And it's not true that local communities are to blame. It is the fault of those who have made little or no effort to listen to local communities in addressing their very important issues related to the location plans. Well, that's one segment. I think that these segments are large and that I will have to change many of these in terms of funding, documentation and work organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. This concludes the list of discussers. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He does.]] Secretary of State Anton Shaina, please. Please. Yes, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say something, let us apply in due time for the debate. By the time I'm done, I can see they're checking in. But please, maybe it's my fault because I didn't see it. I'm sorry. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I've raised my hand before, and you haven't seen me, but not because you blame me. See, only in this part of the debate would there be a participation which relates to some potential resources for the continuation of construction and, of course, this programme. See, I judge myself as a beneficiary of motorways that the collection of tolls is extremely incorrect, and as a citizen of Slovenia from the outskirts I have a constant feeling that I am constantly paying the ticket for Ljubljana. When I get to all these things, there is one ticket ten kilometres ahead of Ljubljana, and people who use an integral part of this highway daily do not pay anything. Since they are so much less distant from Ljubljana, they benefit from roads daily and burden motorways significantly more than the rest of us and we are paying, of course - do not blame these words - entry for watching the most regionally developed part of Slovenia. I come from Posavje, where the quality of life is lowest after the report on human progress. And I pay to come back and forth, about 600 tolars every day. I think that this is incorrect and that the solution is also in the more correct collection of tolls in Slovenia, and I think these fixed toll stations are completely - I do not know how they are built in these places where they are built, but do not allow proper toll collection. Let me just give you an example that was said to have already been made here today. If someone from Ivančno Gorica joins the highway, does not pay anything, but if 1 km or 500 m is brought from New City, someone has to pay the toll. This is unfair, unfair, and I think there is a considerable source and a substantial supply of finance for building highways in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I mean, MPs? He doesn't want to. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me just a few brief explanations. Why is a national programme or rebalancing needed? So far, on average in these years, we have built 30 km of motorways per year if we want to end in 2004, as planned, as a rebalancing event, we should build 80 km of motorways from now on every year. Slovenia has no resources, no financial, no professional, no operational resources to carry out this matter, unless of course we wish to bring from the West or from a co-operational resource to do so at this time. With the highway programme, we are certainly solving transport problems and with a balance and with appropriate priorities, I will mainly address transport requirements and transport needs. For this rebalancing to be real [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Real and feasible, we have prepared or are preparing an analysis of the implementation of the existing development plan and maintenance of motorways, which is a comprehensive document and is looking across the board, looking at the implementation of motorways so far. [[...]] And that is why, of course, it is so demanding and I am sure, as today, that the debate on this analysis will also be very rich and very interesting. For me, of course, this discussion, and certainly for the representatives of Dars, has been very instructive, as it has highlighted some problems from a different point of view, which must certainly be taken into account in the rebalancing. And this analysis takes into account all aspects: environmental, spatial, local communities, engineers, designers and everything that is included in such a demanding national programme. I have to say that we are the only ones looking so critically at our highway construction program. I have an Austrian delegation from the Austrian Ministry of Transport announced on Thursday. These are top officials from this ministry because they want to see how this program is being implemented, because the voice came through the banks and through others, that we are very effective. Today there was a representative of the Hungarian Ministry who was interested and wanted information on how we do it because they would like to be more effective.I do not say that everything is good, what we are doing so far. This is also reflected in the analysis. However, I argue that this programme is one of the best programmes and that it is appropriate to continue with this programme, but by correcting what has not been good so far. Some things happened that weren't the best. However, since the programme is extensive, the programme is demanding, it is natural that there are, of course, some shortcomings that appear during implementation, and it is normal and right that we also fix this and go with some new start and some new solutions ahead. Alternative sources. Surely, I must say, we are thinking seriously or better, I will say, we are already working very seriously on this. The Ministry of Transport names project groups that are working seriously on this. We'll come with solutions in a very short time. However, implementation under a certain concession or other programme cannot be implemented so quickly, especially since some countries that have started such a project quickly have left them - I will give the case only Hungary, to give the example of Croatia, which was also mentioned today - because they have had very poor experience and are moving on to organisation as we have today. I think that, based on the results we have, it would not be rigorous to cut into the current work, but it is necessary to correct, reorganise, through appropriate measures, by addressing the new challenges and the new situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We're moving on to the amendment. Members and Members, please take note of the amendments of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee of 20.7. In addition, we have an amendment to the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Amendment to the Fifth Amendment. I'm counting on you all to have the material in front of you. We're moving on to the first amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're making a decision. We're voting, please. First amendment! There are 54 Members and Members present, for 45, for 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. Since I see that some Members have not listened when I have announced, please take into account the review of the amendments, of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, of 20.7.2001. We all got this material. We're dealing with another amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the second amendment. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 to 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since this amendment has not been adopted, the third amendment is irrelevant. We're considering the fourth amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the fourth amendment. We're voting, please. There are 64 Members and Members present, 27 to 28. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the fifth amendment, in fact to the amendment to the amendment - to the fifth amendment tabled by Villa Trofenik, and it is not under review. Who wants to discuss the amendment to the amendment and the amendment contained in the basic material? Please, Member Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'd like to reexplain the amendment to the amendment. Unlike the basic amendment, this appropriation is intended to start works and complete preparatory works at Ormož-Gorišnica 500 million instead of 800 million, which could also start work at the lower limit of reality so that there is no evidence that it is taken in some other priority directions. With this, it is possible, as I said before, to arrange the completion of the preparatory works, including the payment of the part of the change of destination, and to start work on the most problematic section that has been subject to archaeological excavations, which means 628 metres in length, including the arrangement of the intersection that is currently unregulated and is on it every day of a traffic accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Member Stopar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to substantiate my vote, if you don't mind. In view of the fact that many MEPs have argued in the broad debate that the fragmentation of the construction of motorways across Slovenia is very large, thus also destroying the priority or most necessary construction in certain areas. I believe that one of these areas is in our congregation, through which it runs as much as 18 kilometers of highway construction. I'm not going to talk about everything that people experience in this neighborhood. I'm against the fragmentation of these funds. Because I believe that the advantage in this area is precisely because of all the problems, including for safety reasons, I cannot support this amendment, because I believe that there should be amendments that should still be put into this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word is by Member Rokavec!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. In this amendment, as well as Mr Trofenik's explanations and now Mrs Stopar's explanation, I have a question to ask in some way. Indeed, it has already been made clear in Mr Trofenik's opening remarks that there is not even work to be done on the route of Krtina-Lukovica. We are at this moment the end of July. Before that, it seemed to me in the debate that the real question was not all what Parliament was adopting, a single farce, when it was adopting the programme at the end of July. It is probably Parliament's task at this time to adopt such a programme, which will also be financially feasible this year. If this is actually the case, then I think it is most appropriate to support the amendment to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Just one moment, please. Ambassador Anderlich, please. Before Ambassador Anderlič speaks, because the fourth amendment was not adopted, this amendment to the amendment and the fifth amendment is irrelevant. Thank you very much. We've cleared that up. We're moving on to the sixth amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're making a decision. Please! Just one moment, please. A brief explanation, please. The candidates for the seventh, eighth and ninth amendments, please, if they can reclassify these amendments to the amendment. I see that Mr Beumann agrees, and Mr Merlo also agrees, and also Mr Sugar. Okay, then we'll vote on these amendments to the amendment first. We are discussing, as it is written, the seventh amendment, this is called an amendment to the amendment after the new amendment. Anybody want to talk? Please, Commissioner Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to the amendment, as we have now reclassified it, speaks of anti-group fences. I know it would be possible to discuss anti-group fences long and wide, but since today's discussion is taking a long time, I will only have a few sentences, if you'll allow me, to explain this amendment. It is simply that we have two types of motorways in Slovenia. Those where anti-group fences were released in the building, and those highways that have anti-group fences. My amendment, of course, concerns the oldest highway section in Slovenia, which was built in 1972. The second year will be 30 years after people living on the highway suffer from more noise from year to year, as well as traffic on highways from year to year. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. The people along the highway will also be very grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he? Please, Member Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I agree that noise is a tremendous effort and that residents, at such sections where this noise is present, also deserve the construction of anti-group fences. Of course, I would ask Commissioner Beumann, or others present, if this money may not have already been spent. In recent times, I have felt that anti-group fences have been built around some ministries, because in some ministries people are not hearing the voice of people at all. Like the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Court of Auditors shall give an opinion which is not heard there, the Constitutional Court shall give a decision which is not heard there, the Ministry of Health, for example. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Comrade Jerovšek! It's not in the sense of this amendment. Please limit yourself to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u99	We're talking anti-group fences. In fact, the point of my performance is that if there wasn't some ministry in a vacuum, and you heard the voice of the people, that money would have been for anti-group fences a long time ago. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Anderlich, and then Member Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Thank you for saying that again. I wouldn't have answered, but I was challenged. So, I don't know if the money for the anti-group fences was already spent and when it was spent. I would just like to point out that in 1995 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Noise Regulation and that only then did they start building anti-group fences on new sections of the motorway. That's what I think is the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Thank you. I apologize to Ambassador Anderlich, who I called earlier. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u103	I would like to hear a reply from a government representative, because on the committee I think he has made it very clear how it is to put anti-group fences on those sections that were built a year ago, as colleague Beumann has now said. However, there is a professional approach to planning. First this noise is measured, then it's planned to get into the program and so on. I don't think it's just the Vrchnik and the Postojna, but there's probably a whole bunch of things that have to be arranged, and it's wrong, in my opinion, that now that section that someone here remembers is going in there, and the other one's not going in there. But this should go according to some professional opinion, in order, as followed by activities in this area. Please, if the government representative explains this, because I really don't want to endanger any of the residents by making too much noise. Of course, there is also something I cannot put into the program if, of course, it is not possible to realize or if it will come in your turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Member Beumann has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u105	So, of course, I agree with the fact that it is necessary, in advance, to build anti-group fences, to carry out all appropriate analyses and so on and so forth, as has been said. But I think it's all done in this case, but if it isn't, of course I'm very disappointed. As I have already mentioned, it is the oldest highway section in Slovenia and I am sure that such analyses or that exactly where anti-group fences must be are are known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Is there a government representative who wants to answer? [[He does.]] Secretary of State Shane.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Under the regulation, the Noise Protection Order, Dars carries out the activities necessary to protect the inhabitants and the quality of their lives on the same roads and motorways that were built prior to the adoption of this Regulation. Thus, monitoring or noise measurement is followed, and when noise is exceeded, the specific programme also carries out counter-group protection. I must say that in Slovenia there is a great deal of this and that in very short time Slovenia we will not be able to protect from all the noise. Therefore, the government considered that when it addressed this amendment or the Ministry of Transport, it would not be appropriate to exclude from this normal process the resolution of noise, anti-group fences, or the resolution of noise, to exclude it and, with someone and with an amendment, to save only one part of it, because we then, of course, place the remaining areas in an unequal position. The procedure is pending, the procedure is being carried out and, of course, it is right that we are following this procedure as well. In a good Member who has, of course, made an amendment, let me say that anti-group protection is already under way in the area of Vrhnika and that they are also continuing in the direction of Verda, and I think that I should just look at whether it is just a matter of renaming or is it really a matter of location. Of course, procedures are proceeding normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude this debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Page 8, number 7, amendment to the amendment. We decide, please. We're voting. 63 Members and Members present. Thirty-two, versus twenty-four. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment to the amendment was adopted. Moving to page 8, under number 8 of the amendment to the amendment. Alexander Merlo wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u110	I'm asking the National Assembly to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u111	I am very pleased that this amendment was adopted because I see that people in this hall understand the plight of the people living in this area, along the old parts of the highways. That's for sure, I'll say, for our end, when it comes to a street that was highway-cut off from the city and these people were already handicapped somewhere, and now if we take a section of this anti-tank fence, these buildings that are not really enough, they're extremely close to the highway. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u112	I'm asking for peace in the hall again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u113	I must say that it is of such a small length that the sum of money we need is substantially lower than that of Comrade Beumann. It goes about, in my opinion, for probably 20, up to 30 meters in length of these anti-group fences. With the measurements stated by the government, I would only add that these measurements are probably a lot harder for us than anywhere else, because we have very different weather opportunities. Or blow, do not blow the south wind, the north, and we in Postojna are significantly more subject to these influences than probably others in Slovenia, as you probably know, so that noise is extremely variable. Thank you very much again for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the amendment, on page 8 under number 8. We're voting, please. There are 61 Members and Members present, 30 to 24. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment was accepted. We move to the ninth amendment to the amendment, on page 8 under number 9. Anybody want to talk? Please, Member of the Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Now we're on this sketch. I wouldn't discuss the quality of this drawing. In any case, the Bezov motorway exit from Ljubljana is extremely burdened. Why? Because all traffic flows by the tip, Vrhnika, Logatec, Idrija and Jiri, now that there is an asphalted road over the Death, the real upper Poljanska valley is leaking, including these large settlements, Dragmer, Log, where only in Dragomer and Log 3,500 inhabitants and so on, it runs to this bypass. Of course, here's the toll station, first access to the freeway is a duty-free one. It also flows here from Borovnica, Podpeči, Rakitna, is called this southern Barje, and merges and leaks again to this access and also, Polhov Castle, Horjul, Dobrava. Here comes such a density that at the tip, for the first time, here is a busy road, secondly, from the second to the fifth hours of the afternoon is short here to the long bridge on the highway standing column, which is very dangerous. On the other hand, we have here in front of Brezovica by Vrhnika a very good overpass, an excellent overpass, which is unused because it is a local road and on the other hand there are only a few houses. It's a very good overpass. Chapter 2.3 of the seventh indent states that 50 million tolars will be provided in order to solve traffic problems in the area from Vrhnika to Ljubljana. This will be the fifth road study and I would suggest that we stop these road studies once and for all, with this money, for a short time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u116	Please, Members of the Peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u117	in this area before Brezovica used the overpass and arranged access and exit from the highway. [[...]] That's all this is about. That is to say, with the same money, we would have given up the fifth study once, and we would have invested this money briefly in shovels and asphalt.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. There's a Member of Parliament, mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, we're here in the parliamentary group now that we've been reviewing these statements, we've found that my voting device is not working. I've been voting since the beginning, I've been deciding on these amendments, but I haven't been recorded on two occasions, nor is there a quorum, nothing. I am voting all the time, so I would like to ask if it can be verified and I am also procedurally proposing that we take this decision again because I would like to define myself before this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u120	Dear Member! I'd like to say the next thing. Of course, I'm going to give you five minutes off to check the voting device. However, as far as I can remember, the vote was not in any way compromised. I mean, it wasn't one vote. We'll take a look around. I'm taking five minutes off. Continue at 17 I know it won't be over. [[....]] Ten minutes. 17.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u121	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. Once again, I ask Members and Members to occupy their seats. I've been informed that the device is an MP. Kramberger worked normally. Apparently, he didn't put in the right card. First of all, I'm asking you to find out what's going on here. Quorum, please. Quorum, we've got a lock. 67 Members present and Members present. So we're done and we can proceed with the meeting. The Magnificent Messenger. Kramberger, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am aware that now that we have done so, I do not know how many, five or six votes after this vote on Article 4, in which the result was, I think that 27-28, if I were to say my vote for the amendment, would be different. But I voted all the time and decided, obviously the voting apparatus didn't work. We found that I probably didn’t have the right card, which is possible or not. Therefore, I propose, if possible, that we be able to repeat this vote. I'd like that voice of mine to be recorded at the fourth amendment for what I wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u123	I must, of course, regret, somehow express myself negatively. In fact, if such procedures were introduced, then at each session someone would say that the correct card had not been inserted and, of course, it would never end or end. Each Member is required to verify on its own whether or not his apparatus works. That's why we're moving to page eight, point nine, the amendment to the amendment. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Mr Vice-President, it is a possibility that a colleague who was not in the Chamber voted in favour, which is the second part of this apparatus.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u125	I'm sorry. I don't really understand that. Otherwise, it is also an objection to the vote as soon as I publish the result. In that case, I'd say, okay, but now something's really come up. So that we don't bring the whole thing up again, please, we're moving on to the ninth amendment. Anybody want to talk? Please, Member Targeton.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I myself will oppose the amendment of Mr Cuckati. If I understand correctly, it proposes to build another export before the toll station, thereby allowing for the unloading of the already existing exports before the toll station, which would again mean fewer tolls for Dars and for maintenance of motorways. That's why I'm going to object. It is true that this case again proves how we have an unfortunate toll collection system, since in all directions from Ljubljana, both against Gorenjska and against Stajerski and against Dolenjska, there are a lot of longer motorway sections and lots of exports in front of toll stations, only against Primorski is the toll station so early and, of course, closed toll system in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We decide on the ninth amendment to the amendment. Please, before that, the representative of the government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u128	The Government of this amendment does not support this amendment for several reasons, but the most important one is that this amendment is not feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Now I am really closing the debate and moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 12, for 49. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. Now we move on to the basic, sixth amendment on page 3. This one, as you've seen, is quite long. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on this amendment. We're voting, please. There are 67 Members and Members present, 47 to 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're moving to the last amendment, under number 10. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're making a decision. We're voting, please. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 20, for 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting, please. Mr Jerovšek, a moment, I will interrupt the vote, but you have done the same thing several times. You stopped by after I finished. But no matter what. An explanation of the voice, please, is given by Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Mr President, it's not true. You asked if anyone wanted to discuss it. I didn't want to discuss it, but I want to explain my voice and you didn't give me that option. But I really have to explain. Unfortunately, I will not be able to support this proposal because it is going in a completely different direction than the Committee's debate, where it has been unanimously found that the Committee does not agree with such a proposal. Here we have stumbled on complete immunity, on proposals that would approach the national programme, and because they are also deliberately delayed in this programme, some projects have been ignored, which have been in the priorities of the national programme for years and years, even for absolutely principled reasons, because in this case it will actually happen that, at such a time or similar time, we will find out what, once again, Member Anderlič on the Infrastructure Committee that he was a fool because he was blind to some programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Please, Ambassador Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but this is where one mistake happened. I'd like to point that out. In fact, what's mag. Kramberger warned before, it really happened. One of the members of our group voted by mistake twice because he sat down and talked to a colleague, sat in a second seat and then pressed twice. This is the fact that Mr Sok was on the tape, he was not present and his voice appears to be positive. In fact, it was not here, and anyone can check it because there is radio Slovenia on one show right this hour. I must, for the sake of openness and dignity to all of you, say this, a mistake has occurred in our parliamentary group and please take a few minutes off so that we can all talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u133	I'll read paragraph 93. If the Member objects to the vote or the outcome of the vote, the vote may be repeated. The objection may only be raised immediately after the outcome of the vote has been published. Of course, if honourable fellow Member Sok had acted properly when he went somewhere, he would have taken the card out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u134	Mr. Chairman! On the basis of this Article, I object to the outcome of this vote. There seems to have been a mistake, not a malicious one, and I think it should be taken into account consistently. I ask you, as chairman, to take note of this as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I have already taken note of this, only of course my decisions, that we will now vote on the proposal for a decree on the annual development plan and maintenance of motorways for 2001 as a whole, I do not intend to change, because we are in the voting phase and now we explain our vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u136	This problem, Mr President, would not have occurred if we actually had the opportunity to do so in this opposition which Mr Magg has given you. Kramberger to actually have some debate. But since you decided that this was not the subject of a debate, it went on. Meanwhile, I realized it was a mistake, and I'm telling you again. There was a mistake, and I think we should do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We're in the voting phase. I don't know what I'm supposed to do procedurally and I don't know what else to do. I propose that this matter may be discussed at the College of the President of the National Assembly if anyone considers that this is a mistake, that this is not being conducted properly. But now we're really in the decision-making business. We therefore vote on the proposal for a decree on the annual development and maintenance plan [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Presidents, we cannot continue to vote unless there is a clear outcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u139	Please don't bother me. We're voting on the whole thing. Let's vote, please! There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the decree on the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2001 has been adopted in its entirety. We have two additional conclusions. The additional decisions are contained in the material of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee 18.7.2001. Anyone want to discuss additional conclusions? Procedurally, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have an actual procedural issue and I also have a proposal in some way. What has happened today, the Rules of Procedure say that the Member may object directly after the vote. In this Chamber, when it hasn't been recast, we had a vote paper for Members, we could read it on display, and now the Member cannot object to the vote before he obtains the vote. Therefore, I am actually procedurally proposing, in the future, to avoid situations such as the one that have taken place today in order to regulate the manner of procedural opposition to the vote. I think that these conditions are inoperable for a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm taking this whole thing for granted, and we're going to put it to the expert services of the National Assembly. The text is by Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. This is not about good or bad, bad or otherwise. I formally object, and I note that a mistake has been made in the vote, and I will also formally present this to you now, that you are mediating this to the entire leadership of the National Assembly, which is what the Rules of Procedure say should be done. However, this error - you can check it out and also the expert services check - has been voted by someone in our non-occupational group, and this has happened due to some error. Apparently, the gentleman is not here because he is on Radio-Television of Slovenia and this can be checked by the whole of Slovenia. So we have one concrete problem that needs to be addressed in concrete terms. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u143	Thank you. Member of the School has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I would ask if this discussion could be passed on to someone else. However, if the chairman wants to act, he can do so in a way that punishes those who have made a mistake. It is simply that they have not done their work in the way they should as Members, and at the same time it can be found that this has not affected the outcome of the vote. The two votes for were still a non-vote of the amendment and also a third vote for Mr Kramberger would have been an indecisive outcome, which still means the non-acceptance of the amendment. That is why I think this debate is currently really delayed by the procedure, and on the other hand the opportunity for everyone to actually look at how this business is doing and see no reason for us to suffer because now someone has voted wrongly, had a wrong card inserted, did not wake up in time, etc. This does not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, so the President, the Presidents, I propose that you may impose the penalties provided for in the Rules of Procedure if you feel that this is necessary and thus conclude today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone want to discuss additional conclusions? Since it does not want to, we are moving to a vote on the first additional decision. We're voting, please. We vote on the Committee's first additional decision. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 for, against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The first additional decision was adopted. We are voting on another additional decision. We're voting, please. There are 67 Members and Members, 59, against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the second additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The President of the National Assembly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u146	Colleagues and colleagues! I think the comment made by Comrade Rokavec is in place. Given that there has been a change in the display of voting decisions, consideration should be given to when and when a Member has the right to raise his or her vote. I suggest we make a toast to one of the following colleges, so let's get this thing straight. However, I think that today the National Assembly has decided that decisions are not disputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-07-24-SDZ3-Izredna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning today's session and I'm asking you to listen to the following announcement. The National Assembly will continue its meeting tomorrow, at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, with consideration of agenda items 5, 12 and 13. Tomorrow morning, the Internal Policy Committee and the Economic Committee will consider items 6, 9 and 10 of the agenda. If they conclude the debate and prepare a report for the meeting, the assembly will also address these agenda items. 10.a. the agenda item will be considered by the assembly if the conditions for consideration of this item are met. Thank you for your cooperation.
