ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Outside is the perfect time to work in Parliament, so I invite everyone to join us in the Chamber so that we can continue the fourth session. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to occupy their seats in the hall. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of our colleagues and colleagues: Janez Janša, Dr Miha Brejc, Pavel Rupar, Anton Delak, Davorin Terčon, Franc Kangler for the start of the session, Ivan Kebrič and colleague Franz Čebulj. Please, by inserting the cards into the voting device, determine the presence in the hall. There are 53 Members and Members present in the Chamber of the National Assembly; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue with the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend this meeting, and I also welcome them among us. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will be based on the conclusions submitted by the Commission on the function of Members, the work of the Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 24th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties, 23rd item, this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, 31st item, this is the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Railways, d.d., on loans for the financing of certain parts of the construction and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. Then the assembly will proceed to the hearing - if, of course, it is ready - is it ready? - on the 28th item of the agenda, that is, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministries, and then on the examination of the package of school laws, that is 32, 33 and 34. In the course of the next meeting, the assembly will move on to the consideration of the closed 14th item, this is the proposal of the Media Act, and in order of order of the outstanding points. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going, as it were, to the hearing first. The conclusions presented to the meeting by the Commission's mandate-immunity committee in connection with the execution of the function of the Members. We will first decide on the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 27 March this year, the National Assembly found that the MP was a magician. Mitji Gaspari has terminated his term of office. The Republic Election Commission forwarded the Council the finding that the mandate of the current MEP was mag. Mitja Gaspari has moved on to Mr. Joseph Školč. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate-immunity committee, which informed the assembly in writing. You received the commission's report today on the bench. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Nobody wants a word. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Nobody wants a word either. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The term of office of Mr Josef Školč, born on 19 September 1960, residing in Breginj 42, Breginj, is hereby confirmed. We will vote on that. Please. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues in the hall. 60 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the preliminary decision has been adopted. We congratulate our colleague Joseph Scholch. Since the National Assembly has just confirmed the mandate of colleague Joseph Školč, this means that it ceases to serve as a Member. You have also received the report of the Commission on Mandate and Immunity on this issue. That is why we are moving on to a hearing on the finding of termination of the duties of a Member of the National Assembly. The approval of the mandate was discussed by the mandate-immunity commission of the National Assembly, which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Emissary groups? The MPs and the MPs? Since no one wants to discuss this, I am concluding this debate and moving on to a vote. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members of the Assembly, I propose to take note of the following finding: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Joseph Školč has been approved of the term of office of a Member since 11.4.2001, which is incompatible with the function of a Member under Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members, in accordance with the fifth indent of the first paragraph and Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members shall cease to serve as a Member today." I also propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "To the extent possible changes in the composition of the working bodies, Member Jožef Školč shall act as a member in all working bodies whose member or chairman was Jožef Školč." Does anyone want a word about this? [[Nobody.]] Such a proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 59 supported them, no one opposed him. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since Mr Jožef Školč has ceased to serve as a Member of Parliament instead of a Member of Mag. Anton Ropa, who serves as a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, must carry out further the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member who has taken office in the Government. The Republican Electoral Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on the candidate who is entitled to replace the mag. Anton Ropa, who is unable to act as a Member of the National Assembly, is acting in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-immunity committee. Although you have not yet received the report on the bench, it is ready. Does anyone insist that we wait for the report, or can we continue? [[We can proceed.]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No one wants to discuss it.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: "In time until the Ambassador mag. Anton Rop, appointed Minister in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today Mrs Stanislava Stopar, born on 11 November 1943, resident Lukovica 33/A, Lukovica." This will be decided by the State Assembly by a vote. We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 61 voted in favour and no one objected. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that colleague Stanislava Stopar has become one of the 90 Members of the National Assembly, for which we, of course, congratulate her and invite her to the Chamber. [[Let's hear it.]] I propose that the Council also adopt a proposal to decide that, subject to any changes in the composition of the working bodies, Member Stanislav Stopar shall act as a member in all the working bodies whose membership was Mag. Mr Mitja Gaspari, who has terminated his term of office. Does anyone want a word about this? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on this. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 36 Members and Members voted in favour of such a motion for a decision, and one objected. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since this method of voting requires a few more technical preparations to enable the assembly to work in full with our new colleague, I propose that we set up 20, no more than 20 minutes of breaks to prepare the technical services necessary to vote without delay on any further decisions today. The National Assembly will continue its meeting from 20 minutes to 11 a.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	We're starting the session. Colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to join us in the hall! We will proceed with the 24th item of the agenda. I respectfully ask my colleagues and colleagues to join us in the hall so that we can continue the work of the assembly! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats and, by placing your cards in the voting facilities, determine the presence in the hall. Please take your seats. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 47 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and continues its work. In accordance with the agreement, we are moving to 24. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise legislation. The draft law was tabled by Mr Rokavec, a fellow Member of Parliament, for consideration by the assembly. Does the proposer want a word? Please, Comrade Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! I have tabled a proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law for second reading in the parliamentary procedure before the final agreement with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, I must point out that, at the first reading, the National Assembly has ordered that the proposer, in cooperation with the Government, prepare a proposal for a second reading law. In some ways, this is followed by additions to the committees, which, with the coordinated amendments that we have tabled to the Committee, have also taken place. The key solutions to the amendments are in particular: to simplify the procedure for payment of excise duty to small producers, to establish this payment in a flat-rate amount according to the volume of the boiler possessed and the individual solutions are in line with the guidelines of the European Union. In addition to this proposal, the government has also submitted solutions for the payment of excise duty on cigarettes. As a bill-maker, I also agree with these government solutions, and I propose to the National Assembly that it also adopt the decision of the Finance Committee to hold a third hearing in accordance with the provisions of Article 194. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, colleague Franci Rokavec. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please. Chairman of the board, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly considered the proposed law of our colleague, France Rokavac, as the parent working body. We have received the opinion of the government and the amendments of the government and the opinion of the secretariat. The discussion highlighted the following. The members of the Committee paid the most attention to the proposed amendments of the Government for new paragraphs 2a and 2f and to the amendment proposal of the draft law amending the text of Article 45 of the current law. Thus, the provision of the new Article 2a amending Article 51, paragraph 4, of the current law provides for a gradual increase in excise duty on cigarettes up to 57 per cent of the retail selling price of the best-selling cigarettes in Slovenia from 1 July 2005. This raised a question in the debate about the expected impact of the projected annual increase in excise duties on inflation in the coming years. In this regard, according to some debaters, the over-popular dynamics of increasing excise duties on cigarettes also raised the question of whether, given the expected lower inflationary pressures, there could be more decisive or faster dynamics in increasing excise duties on cigarettes, which would otherwise be meaningful from a health point of view. On these issues, the government representative present at the Committee's meeting drew attention to the government's assessment that raising excise duties in just two steps in 2002 and 2005 would put great pressure on inflation and also on the sale of cigarettes. The gradual increase in excise duties contributes to defusing inflationary pressures and stabilises the production and sale of cigarettes. As a result, the expected financial impact on the state budget will continue to be positive. It is also necessary to take into account the fact that cigarette manufacturers and importers will be able to adjust their prices to the planned, intermediate increase in excise duties by 2005, but it is not necessary that each time an increase in excise duty is reflected in the change in the retail price of cigarettes. In view of the above, the Committee has not drawn up its amendment proposal for a faster increase in excise duty on cigarettes, but at the same time called on the government to give due attention to this issue in its future policy. However, the provision of the new Article 2f, which complements the provision of Article 68 of the current law, provides for a range of fines of between 50 thousand and 500 thousand dollars for a natural person if it requires reimbursement of excise duty on the basis of false data. In doing so, the Committee has specifically expressed its view that the lower limit of the sentence is too low. After clarification by the representative of the Government present at the meeting of the committee, this provision would, however, be consistent with the law on offences which sets out the ranges for individual penalties, but the Government will, on a proposal from the committee before the third reading of the proposed law, further examine the proposed provision in terms of compliance with the law on offences and, in the event of possible non-compliance, propose an appropriate amendment. At the time of consideration of the amendment proposal by the proposed amendment to Article 45 of the current law, a question was raised as to the proposed sixth paragraph, which lays down for a small producer a natural person who owns or uses a 40 litre or more boiler, as regards the determination of the upper limit of the capacity of the boiler, which is not provided for in that provision, although this would make sense. Therefore, in its amendment summarizing that amendment for amending Article 45 of the current law, the Committee did not, in the sixth paragraph of this Article, set the maximum capacity of the combustion boiler, as this issue needs to be further examined. However, it suggests that, in cooperation with the Government, the proposed law should also set an appropriate ceiling for the boiler volume until the third reading of the proposed law. The Committee then drafted certain amendments, namely the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new G1 Article, the amendment to Article 1, the amendment to Article 2, the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 2, the amendment to the new Article 2, the amendment to the new Article 2a, the amendment to the new Article 2b, and considered and supported the following amendments to the Government: for the new a1, b1, c1, d1, e1, f1, g1, i1, j1, k1, l1, m1, o1, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2f and 2g, and proposes to the Council that the amendments of the Government, together with the amendments of the Board, also support. In view of the fact that the third treatment of this law is included or intended to be included in an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, it is not necessary for a decision to be taken by the committee which has adopted it in relation to the proposal or hearing in accordance with Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much, colleague Pucka, president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the government want the word. I ask Mrs Matejo Vraničar to present the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Government, taking into account the amendments of the parent committee, supports the proposed bill on amending and supplementing the excise law. At the same time, the government is proposing to the National Assembly to deal with some of its own amendments, which complement the basic text. The proposed amendments of the government can be divided into two sets. With the first set of amendments proposed, the government wants to fulfil the commitments made by Slovenia in negotiations with the European Union in the field of excise duty taxation and should meet them in accordance with the national programme this year. In this way, we are essentially addressing the issues that have been envisaged by the state programme for the so-called first system review of the excise law. The second set of proposed amendments, however, includes those amendments with which the government wants to eliminate certain inconsistencies in the text of the law or the problems that practice has shown. In the discussions so far on the proposed innovations contained in the government amendments, there was no evidence of opposition from the taxpayers or the public concerned. As you have already heard, the National Assembly's home committee and the bill-maker support the solutions proposed by the government, so I also propose to the National Assembly to support the Government's amendments to the bill and the law, and to prepare the law as quickly as possible for the third hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranič, for the views of the government. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word on this law? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? Neither do I. We are moving on to the examination and decision-making of individual articles. Please, if I may interrupt this consultation. In this review of the amendments you have received on the bench under order number 24, for the purposes of the vote on the amendments, all the amendments tabled are listed in accordance with the sequence of the articles of the applicable excise law, which these amendments amend or supplement. Thus, some amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have been duly renumbered in the review. I propose that we begin the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We'll decide on the amendment to a new article. We're voting. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present. 41 voted in favour, no one opposed the amendment. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are discussing and voting on a new Article b1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on him. We're voting please. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 47 of them voted in favour of the amendment, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment for the new article b1 has been adopted. We are voting on an amendment for a new c1 article. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	The voting apparatus is not working. I'm asking you to abort.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	I'm asking you to stop so long as the technical services find out if anything's wrong. I ask the technical services if they can come to the hall to determine whether it is more serious or if they could correct this error without interruption. Are you already objecting to the vote in the previous article? Do you require a re-voting? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Comforted that the technique is not perfect, we continue our work. I propose that we establish the presence in the Chamber and, in this regard, also verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. 61 colleagues and colleagues are present. Is there any other comment on the operation of the device? [[No, no, ……]] We can proceed. We are discussing and deciding on a new Article C1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on the article. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 44 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the new Article C1 has been adopted. We are discussing a new Article D1 at the end of the 2nd page of the amendment review. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on a new D1 article. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. In favour of vote 39, no one voted against the new D1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are discussing and deciding on a new Article E1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on a new Article E1. 62 Members and Members are present. 44 votes in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article E1 has been adopted. I am opening a debate on the new Article F1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on the new Article F1. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The new F1 was voted in favour of 44, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article F1 has been adopted. I am opening a debate on the new Article G1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. We voted on the amendment proposal for a new G1 article. There were 42 votes in favour between 62 Members and Members, one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] We are now voting on amendment number two. Let's vote, please! 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on a new Article H1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on a new H1 article. There are 63 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The new Article H1 was voted on by 43 Members and no one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] That's how he was accepted. Anyone want a word in the debate on the new I1? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the new Article I1 to a vote. There are 63 Members and Members present. There were 49 votes in favour of the new I1 and no one opposed it, so it was adopted. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I am opening a debate on a new Article J1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote. There are 63 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 39 Members and Members voted in favour of the proposal and no one opposed it and was therefore adopted. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I am opening the debate on the new Article K1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we vote on a new Article K1. There are 64 Members and Members present in the Chamber. There were 38 votes in favour of the new K1 and no one opposed it, so it was adopted. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I am opening a debate on the new Article L1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members present in the Chamber. The new Article L1 was voted on by 46 Members and no one opposed it and was therefore adopted. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I am opening the debate on the new M1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote for the new M1 article. There are 64 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 39 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour of the new M1 and no one opposed it and was therefore adopted. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I am opening a debate for a new N1 article on the seventh page of our review. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the article to a vote. There are 64 Members and Members present. 40 Members and Members voted for the new N1 and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on a new Article1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate and put the new article to the vote. 64 colleagues and colleagues are present. 43 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments to Article 1. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In this amendment, I am interested in the position of the Government, in particular the solution in the sixth paragraph of the new Article 45 or amended, where it is said that a small combustion producer is a natural person who owns or uses a burning boiler of 40 litres or more. I don't think this solution is the most appropriate solution. However, I did not table an amendment because I would like to hear the position of the government, which is the limit that would still be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Does the government want to answer the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. The solution to the volume of the 40 litre burning boiler is already summarized in the current applicable excise law. The whole article is likely to change due to the fact that a solution is presented as a whole with the whole new text. Otherwise, according to the professional criteria, this 40 litre boiler limit is approximately the limit which distinguishes cooking burns exclusively for personal use and cooking burns for sale on the market, even in smaller quantities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	I'm sorry. The answer didn't satisfy me. I want to know what that means. Is someone who owns a boiler, say, 500 liters, still a small producer of this kind of logic?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Would you like to explain more? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	The definition of a small combustion producer is linked to the registration of activities. If the person having such a boiler is not registered for the purpose of carrying out the activity, the excise act shall always be regarded as a small excise liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I am joining the same point in this Article, namely the definition of owner and manufacturer. He may own a lot of boilers, but he's not a manufacturer. Now they're all going to have to have this sealed somehow according to point 12. This is just as much as if he owned a vehicle and would be a driver at the same time, which is not necessary and is not conditioned anywhere. I don't think this is a good one, because then you can tie your property to the performance of your business and thus define it as a manufacturer. Here I would like the government to think on this subject. That's what you say. It ties property and production together. At the same time, he says, if there is no production, the matter must be sealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are discussing the amendment to Article 1. Comrade Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I think it's possible to solve this dilemma. In the transitional provisions of the amendment for the new 2.1, we will also define a new text, which reads: "Little spirits producers who have already declared ownership or use of combustion boilers to the competent customs authority by 31.12.2001 must complete the application by 31.12.2001 at the latest with data on the volume of boilers they own or use." The fact is that all small producers had to register their use of a boiler for brandykum by 31 March or 31 April in 1999 or 31 April. As such, all small producers are already registered with the customs authority as a small producer of spirits. So much for explaining the elimination of this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1. It will be decided by a vote. Please. 64 colleagues and colleagues are present. Thirty-three voted in favour, three against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. Moving to page 10 of the review, we have a proposal for a new Article 1.a at the top. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I put him in charge. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. Article 1a was voted 38, of which 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. I am putting forward a proposal for a new Article 1.b in the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for a new Article 1.b and put it to the vote. 64 colleagues and colleagues are present. 35 supported them, 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. On page 12 of the review, we have a proposal for an amendment at the top for a new Article 1.c. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on it. Please. There are 64 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 33 members voted in favour of the new Article and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the new article has been adopted. For the new article 1st, we have an amendment. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on him. There are 64 Members and Members present. Such a proposal was supported by 40, 2 opposed him. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 2. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I suggest we vote on him. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. 34 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a new Article 2.a. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 46.1 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I am making a proposal for a new Article 2b for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on him. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. 34 voted in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On page 14 of the review we have two amendments, for a new paragraph 2.c. First, we will decide on an amendment to the government's amendment to the new Article 2nd. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on it. 66 Members and Members are present. 36 Members and Members voted in favour of the new Article 2nd, and 2 opposed it. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Please. 66 Members and Members are present. 30 Members and Members voted in favour of the amendment under order number 2 and one opposed it. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have a proposal for a new Article 2d. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. 40 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a proposal for a new Article 2. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] That's why I'm putting him to the vote. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 40 votes in favour of the new Article 2nd, of which 2 were against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the new Article 2nd has been adopted. No amendments were tabled under Article 3. Does anyone want to discuss Article 3? Please, buddy Pucka. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I told you before by mistake that there was no need for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. I propose that, since certain amendments have been adopted, the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall carry out a third hearing in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. We decide on Article 3. Anybody want a word about him? No amendments were tabled. We vote on the text of Article 3. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 47 votes in favour of Article 3, and no one objected. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anyone want a word on the title of the law? [[Nobody.]] Then I propose the title of the law to decide. We're voting. 68 colleagues and colleagues are present. 46 voted in favour of the title of the law, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We therefore have an additional decision, which reads: At the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will carry out the third examination of the draft law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word on the proposal? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. Yes, please? [[...]] Are you objecting to the vote, Comrade Dr. Bayuk? [[No, no, ……]] 68 colleagues and colleagues are present. 48 of them voted against in favour of the proposal. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Would you like a word, Dr. Bajuk?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We don't mind going to the third hearing. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would ask for 10 minutes to consult the Group of Members on the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	We're not going to the hearing right now. We will now conclude that the drafter of the law prepares everything necessary for the third reading, and this is the proposal I am making for consideration, in cooperation with the government. Anybody want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] I then put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 colleagues and colleagues present, 43 of whom voted in favour of this proposal, and no one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This proposal has been adopted as well as the last decision related to this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was tabled by Mr Ciril Pucka, a fellow Member of Parliament, for consideration by the assembly. Does the proposer want a word? Please! The text is given by the bill-maker, Comrade Cyril Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. This text of the law will replace the text of the proposed law amending the value added tax law, which was introduced on 2 December 1998. I would say that the provision of Article 36 of the Value Added Tax Act provides for when a taxable person must pay his/her value added tax obligations or within a specified period of time during which the taxable person must pay the value added tax. This law provides for a calendar month for the tax period and special periods are fixed for taxable persons who pay a tax advance on activities in 3 months or half-yearly instalments. These taxpayers account for the tax on value added tax for the calendar 3 months or the calendar half-year. However, under the fourth paragraph of Article 36 of the Value Added Tax Act, those taxable persons may also decide to charge the value added tax monthly. The taxable person who decides to pay the monthly value added tax shall not be required to submit any application for a shorter period of payment of the value added tax, but shall only inform the tax authority in writing within 15 days before the transfer to the monthly value added tax calculation. Where a decision is taken to pay a monthly value added tax, it shall be binding on it for a minimum period of 24 months. According to the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, out of a total of 73,313 taxpayers for VAT, it proposes monthly accounts of as much as 84,5 per cent, 3-month accounts of 11 per cent and only 4.5 per cent of them propose six-year accounts. The provisions of Article 53 of the Value Added Tax Act, however, provide for the refund of the value added tax to a taxable person who has the right to refund the tax at a time when the tax returns a higher value added tax than his tax liability. For each tax period, the taxable person must submit a tax invoice to the tax authority. And if its tax liability is greater than the entry tax, it must pay the difference until the last day of the following month after the tax period. However, if the entry tax is greater than its tax liability, the difference shall be included in the payment to the taxpayer in the following tax periods and may also require the refund of the tax. The tax authority shall, on the basis of a request from the taxable person, refund the amount of the demanding amount after it has been reduced by the amount of taxes which have expired. The objectives of this amendment to the law under consideration are as follows. The amendment to Article 36 would reduce the number of taxable persons charged for the calendar month from the current 62,390 to 27,514, according to the data provided by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The number of taxpayers calculating value added tax over three months would increase from the current 8,130 to 19,367 and those calculating value added tax over a six-year period would increase from 3,272 to 26,911. The amendment to Article 40 of the Law would make it more clear that a taxable person who carries out both a tax and a exempt activity may only deduct the amount of the value added entry tax which may be attributed to the exercise of a taxable activity. However, by amending Article 53 of the Law, the taxable person, other than the main exporters, would no longer have the right to claim the refund of the surplus of the additional entry tax, but the excess of the entry tax would have been included in the adjustment of the tax in the following tax periods. These changes would have a certain impact on improving the liquidity of the state budget, as in the first tax period following the entry into force of this law, the budget inflow would have increased by approximately EUR 9 billion after the assessment of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as the surplus of the value added tax that has so far been returned to the taxpayers in cash would have been taken into account as collateral for the following tax periods. At the same time, this amount should be reduced by around 2 billion tolars, given that taxpayers who so far have charged value added tax monthly and after a new three-month or six-year period would not pay their monthly obligations in the first period, but would only be paid after three or six months. A total of approximately 7 billion tolars in the first period would then be made for this difference. Furthermore, costs would be reduced, or the costs of administration of the tax administration would be reduced, according to their estimate of approximately 130 million tolars. However, these changes should not have a financial impact on the amount of revenue collected in the national budget. In view of what I have said, I propose that this law be dealt with and adopted quickly because the proposed solutions would have a significant impact on the liquidity of the state budget and would at the same time result in a more appropriate distribution of the workload of employees in the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of certain professional comments by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and by the Chamber of Commerce, I have proposed an amendment or addition to Article 5 of the Act to resolve those issues which were also "disputed" by those Chambers and which improves the basic text of the Act. As a proposal, I have tabled a number of editorial corrections based on the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters confirmed by the mother's working body. I propose or request the National Assembly to support the proposed amendments and additions to the value added tax law. At the same time, as a proposaler, I agree with the additional decision of my colleague Ferri Horvat, who proposes that, in view of certain additions that have been submitted to the articles on VAT rates and exemptions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be obliged to submit a new draft law to the National Assembly by the end of June of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Pucko, the billmaker. Your committee has also considered your proposal. Will you also present his views?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered amendments to the value added tax law. In doing so, the Committee took the utmost account of the secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters and adopted certain editorial amendments as a committee and supported the amendment of Article 53 and the amendment we tabled together with colleague William Trofenik. I propose to the National Assembly that these amendments be supported by the drafting nature and amendment of the proposer and the two above-mentioned candidates. At the same time, the Committee also agrees or, as Chairman of the Committee, I agree with the additional decision I have already stated. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly to consider and adopt this law in a swift manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee responsible. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please. Mr Darko Končan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government supports this basic proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law submitted by Mr Pucko to the legislative procedure. Together with all those amendments that complement the basic proposed solutions and do not oppose the basic purpose of amending the individual provisions of the value added tax law. These basic purposes, as already outlined by the previous speaker, are mainly a contribution to rationalising administration in the investment and processing of tax accounts. And not only on the side of the tax service, but also on the side of the taxpayers. For look only at the example: so far, taxpayers have been able to apply for the refund of overpaid value added tax for a few thousand tolars, or 1,000, 2,000 tolars, etc. The Government assesses that these proposed solutions in determining the tax periods as proposed and in determining the right to reimbursement of the entry tax surplus over the value-added exit tax offer an appropriate balance between the trend towards the ongoing treatment of taxpayers' tax returns on the one hand and the tendency to reduce administration and thus the cost of functioning of the tax authorities. Finally, it is not negligible that the tax service will save around 130 million tolls for these extremely small amounts, due to a substantial reduction in the number of administrative procedures. For all these reasons, the government is proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law, as explained, also support or accept it as such. At the same time, allow me to comment briefly on the amendments that have been tabled in the individual provisions of the value added tax law, and their content goes beyond the purpose of the basic bill. The government opposes these amendments. The Government has carefully examined these proposed amendments. We have also had several special meetings with individual proposers, groups, stakeholders and so on, including professional institutions. And we have assessed them from different perspectives, but on one basic assumption: whether the proposed amendments follow the basic principles and objectives of the bill - that is to say rationalisation of administration and everything else - whether the proposed amendments are in line with the basic principles of the value added tax system as adopted by the value added tax law in 1999 or whether the proposed amendments are in line with Slovenia's internationally accepted obligations and, in particular, are in line with Slovenia's negotiating points for accession to the European Union. Furthermore, whether the proposed amendments are in accordance with internationally established standards and practice; not least, we are assessing here whether, in accordance with the so-called Sixth Directive, which is the basic directive in this field and all others, and whether the proposed amendments are such as to allow for uniform implementation in practice from a standard technical point of view. Since all these basic bases and principles do not provide or meet these criteria, the Government notes that, of course, these amendments cannot be supported and proposes to the National Assembly to reject them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Three parliamentary groups have applied to present their views so far. First, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, on her behalf, colleague Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor. He will be followed by a colleague of Fari Horvat and Valentin Pohorec. You have the floor, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although the amendments and additions to the value added tax law were formally proposed by Member Cyril Pucko, on the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy, and even today the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has supported these ideas or those objectives resulting from the basic proposal. It is pointed out that the purpose of the law or the amendment or amendment of the law is in its single financial effect of 7 or 9 billion tolars, which, of course, the government has already taken into account in the budget, and this also shows a clear picture of Mr Puck's formerly formal proposal. The proposed amendments can be seen as contrary to the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers, the principle of neutrality of value added tax and the principles of systematicity in tax procedures. That is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not want to be their formal proponent, as it is clear in such a finding that the changes do not fall within the framework of the forecasting of the second phase of value-added tax to European standards and of course the European tax legislation which the Government intends to make in the promises made in our association negotiations and, of course, in its programme of work. This is said to be the aim of this amendment of the law, in extending the deadline, to pay excessively paid entry tax on the exit tax and to temporarily relieve the incompetent tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of effective accounting and control of value added tax. These are the basic purposes of this law, according to the Social Democratic Party. Of course, due to the strong response of both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, the Society of Tax Advisors of Slovenia and, of course, the other sectional public, Member Cyril Pucko submitted new amendments to the seventh extraordinary meeting of the Committee of the Finances of the State on 28.3. We consider this to be the opposite, according to our assessment, with the Sixth Tax Guidelines. This is particularly evident from the government's views on the proposed other amendments, which, of course, it supports. The fact is, however, that the government is still insisting on the basic objective of amending the law. In an additional report to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on taxation to the added value of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of 28 March, the proposer and the government do not state as the objective of modifying the more financial impact, but only 170 million lower tax administration costs. This, of course, cannot be confirmed even on the basis of further changes in this second package of amendments. The two main ways of ineligible damage to taxpayers or of achieving a greater financial impact of this tax on the budget are mentioned. This, however, is that by amending or extending the tax and accounting period - this is a change and in fact a change in the calculation or reimbursement of the more paid entry tax over the exit tax. The new amendments also continue to insist that taxpayers have different accounting periods, half-yearly, three-monthly and one-monthly, and depend on their personal taxable goods - the scope of taxable goods and services - which continues to violate the equality of taxpayers before the law. Under the current regime, all taxpayers had a tax period of one month, only those liable to charge an activity tax of six months or three months were allowed to choose periods. Thus, so far, it has been voluntary for a longer period of time, namely, for a different number of debtors. Following Mr Ciril Puck's first amendments, the surplus of the value added tax over the exit tax will not be refunded at all. And they're just clearing it up in the next tax seasons or acquitting it. We wouldn't even know the annual bill. With other amendments to Article 53, Cyril Puck would be able to charge more paid entry VAT than the exit VAT within 60 days of the submission of the invoice. But only if these surpluses go beyond the amounts that - of course - are also mentioned in this amendment. According to the Social Democratic Party, this is essentially a matter of concern for the liquidity of the state budget and of burdening the work of an incompetent tax administration. It is not about simplification or some rationalisation as mentioned; for, in the extreme case, it would be most rational for tax administrations not to exist at all, since it is nothing at all. And the proposals for rationalisation are nowhere to be found. How? From where? Is it clear from the budget that the tax administration will need fewer people, less resources or otherwise burden taxpayers with these amendments to the value added tax law? These changes in terms of rationalisation have not convinced us. They did not convince us because there is no clear indication of any effects of rationalisation and this argument is just and only an excuse for the economic operators or parts of the Slovenian economy to care even more about the liquidity of the state budget and, of course, that it will also, in a certain amount - that is, 7 or 9 billion - somehow spill into the state budget. In principle, we agree with this proposal that for smaller amounts of taxpayers - it is said, for the smaller differences between entry and exit tax - this should be stepped up in the next period. However, not with this fact that at the same time for a small economy - it is said, with less traffic - the tax period is increasing. Because there will be cases that are extremely unacceptable to our economy. A former taxpayer with turnover of up to 10 million tolars per year will, of course, fall into a six-month tax period. If this taxpayer pays substantially more entry tax than the exit tax and has a large surplus, the tax administration will return this to him only seven, eight - question! - or nine months; but now she returned to him after two, three months. That, I think, is the main problem with this marriage. And we cannot agree with this that we would burden the Slovenian economy, in particular the Slovenian small economy, again and again, on the basis of the liquidity of the budget and, of course, also on the account of the incompetent tax administration, so that it can collect taxes where they are, and search for them there and squeeze those people who regularly pay the tax. This rationalisation is merely a mask for the Slovenian state or Slovenian tax collector to pick up more from this most vital part of the Slovenian economy. That is why we are social-democrats against the entire law and do not support these solutions, because they create poor conditions for the functioning of the economy or for the creation of new values. Because this money, which is now going to be lost to these taxpayers, because somewhere -- let's say -- is going to be lending the country, these same taxpayers could spend it on investment, they could spend it on development, and so they'll have it deposited and they'll be inaccessible. This is unacceptable and we will support such solutions to the law and amendments to the value added tax law that will relieve the Slovenian economy and stimulate it to invest and to expansion, particularly in those areas that create the greatest added value. We will completely reject the proposed amendment to the law and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! In the Joint List Group, we have done quite a lot and thoroughly with this bill. The fact is that it is not possible to challenge the applicant in the objectives of amending and supplementing the law in order to improve the liquidity of the budget and to aim to reduce the cost of VAT collection; to discuss how much savings are real or not, but; surely, savings will be something. However, we were in the dilemma of whether or not to support the law, precisely because of the economic comments, mainly explicitly expressed by the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia and by the Chamber of Commerce on the likely negative impact if the bill was adopted as proposed for the economy. In particular, it is a way of calculating the surpluses of the entry VAT or the deductible share and the reimbursement of the surpluses of the entry VAT. Very serious were the warnings and also convincing that the text, as proposed, would increase inequity in an economy that is already large and worrying, and that it would have a negative impact on investments that are urgently needed in the economy, both small and large, to say simplified. The fact is that the National Assembly, as the legislator, must keep an account of both medals; both the care of the state budget and the inflows and its liquidity, as well as of the consequences it has for the economy. Because it's some kind of a binder. That is why we have already advocated amendments in the working discussions and also in the working body, and therefore we support the amendments, in particular the amendment tabled by Comrade Pucka, and the amendment tabled jointly by fellow Member Pucka and colleague Trofenik, and some of the amendments of the Committees already mentioned here. Because, especially with these two amendments, it greatly facilitates or amortises the negative possible effects on the economy - that is to say, somehow, it largely responds to the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Maybe not entirely, but to a large extent. I checked again with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia whether this satisfaction saved them. I have this morning's confirmation by the Vice-President of the Chamber that such a solution as proposed by the amendment of Comrade Puck is acceptable. So on this basis, we think that we can - and we also support - adopt the bill and also adopt it quickly. Of course, then the second chapter of this law, or the second part, where the most amendments were sent by Members and Members - if I have seen correctly from all the groups of Members, irrespective of the position and opposition - are proposals to facilitate or reduce the rates of the inpa for exemptions. In this matter, in the Group of Members, we believe that, while some of the proposals are justified and we would also be acceptable, that there may be other proposals where certain reliefs should have been made, they have not been made in the form of amendments, either there have been no initiatives from the outside or that Members themselves have not proposed them. And we do not think it would be appropriate now to "ad hoc" to solve only some problems or some issues; in particular, because in principle the purpose of amending the law is different. We do not therefore underestimate the need to discuss the stages themselves in the light of experience so far, in relation to comparisons with foreign countries, given what is happening in relation to the European Union, and therefore we are in favour of a comprehensive analysis of the state of the rates, in order to take into account both the European Union guidelines and, of course, the state of negotiations and the results of the negotiations and, on the basis of this, a proposal for amendments and additions to the levels themselves. I therefore propose an additional decision to draw up by the end of June a proposal to amend and supplement the law in those articles or in those points relating to the level of VAT rates or where relief or exemptions should be provided. And I am pleased that the drafter of the law also supports this proposal, and I propose that you accept it. I hope the government won't object to him either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Valentin Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members. With this amendment and the addition of the value added tax law, our parliamentary group has also dealt more than possible with other matters, because we know the problem and we want to contribute to the resolution of these problems. We support the bill's proposal, and we also support the amendments adopted or given its consent by the Committee on Finance, although we do not give a positive opinion on all proposed amendments.We believe that these amendments, which the Government has proposed, are necessary to facilitate the work of the tax services themselves, so that the work of the taxpayers alone may be a little easier, because they will not have to work on a regular basis every month, even though this may cause some other problem in terms of ensuring the liquidity of the taxpayers, because no one is "sparing" money on the jury account in order to pay a little more tax in three months or six months. And there may be new problems, late interest and so on. But, well, now we're about to accept it. I hear that - and also on the proposal of colleague Ferri Horvat - the government is expected to reconsider other necessary amendments to the VAT law. I am also thinking that it would suggest re-examine the issue of equality before the VAT law between the taxpayers and non-commitees for the calculation of value added tax. I'll give you an example. A small taxpayer or small entrepreneur who is not obliged to charge VAT to the other person who owes this VAT. These debtors are often in an unequal position, given that 19% are simply more expensive in their services. However, they are not adequately or adequately reimbursed for the entry tax. Take one example, one hairdresser individual or hairdresser, for example, a hairdresser company. A hairdresser's company, because he's a liability, has to account for 19% of the service tax. The entry tax is not really so much because it mainly has its service burdened with labour, but not with material. These are examples: bookkeeping services and some independent bookkeeper and so on. I think it would be worth re-analyzing. I have also tabled an amendment to this law. Similar amendments were tabled by colleagues Pukšič and a party of young people. However, I would like to say a few words about this, although the amendment did not receive support from the Finance Committee. It did not grow on my cabbage, only the amendment came after these more than one-year experiences around VAT after the introduction of this law, and a change from the former transport tax system, where fire and other protection and rescue equipment was charged with a minimum tax rate of 5%, and now under the VAT law with a maximum rate of 19%. Here we felt the need to point out this, because the issue is indeed present in this whole sphere of voluntary intubation of professional firefighting in Slovenia, which performs this public service. The government prescribes us equipment, standards and all that, but neither the state nor the local community provides us with sufficient resources to be equipped, as the orders require. That is why we serve in the field of collecting voluntary contributions, donations, sponsorships and the like to complete this financial gap. And what happens to us when we deposit these funds, voluntarily collected, into a jury account, go and get the equipment we need to carry out our public service? Even up to 50%, or even in some cases more than 50% of the purchase price, the country also takes 19% of the tax for these funds. Thus, Slovenia also burdens voluntary contributions with value added tax. This is what we wanted to point out, and I expect the government, as it has promised on the Committee on Finance, to examine this issue again and try to find an appropriate solution to this problem. I expect it to be, and also on behalf of all those who expect it - 1,100 voluntary fire companies, 119,000 firefighters in Slovenia - I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Dr. Joseph Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, members of the government! Our Group of Members will not support these amendments and additions. I will not go into the technical matters of these changes made by Mr Pucko and, in fact, by the government, but I will mention some other things. Pointing to the fact that it is time for us to start thinking about our taxpayers as well. Look, with these changes, the government is trying to do something that I don't want to see as a solution to its financial problems. Let's say Bob Bob! In fact, these proposals are nothing more than financing, covert financing, countries by small businesses or other companies. This means that it is for those who can least accept such burdens and who live in somehow unregulated financial conditions, and even with high interest, to take the opportunity to invest in their operations. As I know, in particular small businesses have very few opportunities, they are marginally able to finance their businesses. We know cases around the world where the most progress, the most economic, is made by small businesses, inventors and the like. So we will not support this, these proposals and amendments. Others too - I call on all of you to reconsider this proposal. After all, we will only have to start to see how these taxes or such transfers are expressed in our society and among our taxpayers. For many years, I have been observing the tax movement in our country, and I can say that our taxpayers are extremely patient, complaining horribly about each other over each other's new taxes, while they have no effective, effective opportunity to express it politically. I am surprised that there is no effectively organised corporation of taxpayers that can really resist certain taxes. It seems to me - this is my impression - that this is only the first step this year towards higher taxes and other tax obligations. So let's think about this thing and I'd like to talk constructively about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual Members and Members. My colleague, Petty Officer, signed up in writing. Since I have no other written applications, I limit all other discussions to five minutes. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Allow me to add something to my colleague Bernick, Mr Bernick, to this value added tax law. The very proposal to summarize a previous law, which was introduced in 1998, is unusual - the procedure itself. This already introduces a certain dark light into the process itself. Well, it's all about content to me. The content is simply such that it is necessary to obtain seven billion fresh money or, I don't know, nine billion fresh money. In view of the problem of public finances, I could even say that money is needed for something to get, but such a way of collecting taxes in two respects is unacceptable. First of all, because it's not all the same on the market. That's the first one. It's not the same thing. Let us therefore move away from the European guidelines. The European guidelines speak of the need for all producers to be treated equally by all entrepreneurs. And if they are doing any speculation, European countries are doing it in the opposite direction to leave businesses with certain funds that they then use for investment activities. And by doing so, companies are improving their position on the market. That's what countries actually do. In the opposite direction. What's going on with us? However, we are heading in the direction of improperly collecting money for budget consumers. This is now the second - budget consumers. What will this be for? I'd like to believe it's going to be good things. However, if I look at or consider this question which I raised 14 days ago to the Minister of Economic Affairs concerning the rehabilitation of Pek. [[...]] That's where we put about 7 billion. That's about as much as it would be for the entrepreneurs we want to give them back - nothing, their money. What are we using this money for? For not being a part of it! You know, it's not wise on the part of the state to increase the supply and redistribution. And he's allocating these funds through state service. In the back there is a fundamental, problematic constellation, namely the country's mistrust in a citizen or company to distribute itself with accumulation. I'll tell you, the company only has the best money. In this way, they would become entrepreneurs of lenders; and they would become free lenders. This creates inequality in the market. Then let's call it a tax. Let us collect the tax as much as is necessary, but not be misled, like the predecessors of the United List and Liberal Democracy. It's nothing but a cashier's charge. And if we want to fill it up, let us fill it in a transparent, neutral way! Then why don't we pick up those - I don't know - 83 billion that remain very rich? Now we have a representative of the tax office, too, who could explain what could be gained by this money. That is why we support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. We ourselves wanted to table an amendment to Article 5 to be deleted. By law, existing entrepreneurs have a choice, i.e. how - different ways of accounting. They have their own; then they can decide for themselves what the entry and exit tax is and what the volume of the business is. Therefore, the proposal of this law is not appropriate from a professional point of view, which is why I object to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. With this, we have exhausted those debaters who have unlimited opportunity to perform. I'll limit the debate to five minutes later. First, my colleague Moja checked in. You have the floor, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be brief. It seems to me that tax policy and budget are one of the basic instruments for creating the development of a country and its activities. It is not long since the elections followed us and in the elections we have all the parties, without exception in this House, performed - but - under the terms of "supporting science and seeing science as one of the developments of this society." One client, probably mine, even had the knowledge to work for us and things like that during the motto. It seems to me that if such a law, which has now been introduced and is supposed to support some development through tax policy, it must be such that it is not meant to be created by one Member, because we see that there are a lot of inconsistencies in this law and that the government - in my opinion - should reject such a law and then submit its own, which we have set ourselves, somehow try to achieve in practice. It is therefore very surprising to me that she did not support the amendments tabled by the Group of Members in the field of science. Look, we've been here in this National Assembly, and I, who have been a little longer than some of you, have been the ones who pushed the keys to the budget, but the government that proposed the budget, at least so far in the field of science, acted so that the percentage for the Ministry of Science of the Budget in 1992 was 3.77%, let's say in 1996 2.65% and in 2000 only 2.5%. That in 1992 the share of the gross cooperative product intended for the Ministry of Science was 0.83% and that in 2000 we ended up with 0.67%. This thing was extraordinary, I would say, negative, and I think if the government was dry with its criteria when it was processing these amendments, it would be good to find that they are not appropriate, because the criteria that it has set for itself - so these amendments do not fit, it would be good to at least put an amendment to the amendment and try to remedy this state of affairs that is now in science. That is why, honourable Members, I would only ask you to speak briefly - even when we come to these amendments - at least these amendments relating to certain reliefs in the public interest and with public funds for science, you try to support the procedure afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. A colleague of Shirca, a colleague of Kelemina's, would like to take the floor [[The debates are limited to five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I understand that the discussions discussed by my colleague Mogo could be huge on this topic. The amendments he has tabled are also understandable on one side and are not the only ones I see. However, given that Articles 25 and 26, which are not the original subject of the consideration of such amendments to the VAT law, are, in fact, quite symptomatic of a lack of clarity or ambiguity, there may also be insufficient interpretation of Articles 25 and 26 - mainly if I limit myself to these two - which speak of a lower rate of value added tax or even exemption. I mean, given that these issues are still far from being resolved, I will absolutely support the additional decision of my colleague, Ferri Horvat, who imposes or wants the government, in short, by summer, to prepare a clearer exemption regime or reduced VAT rates. I will also draw my opinion, which focuses mainly on cultural activities that are now carried out mainly in Article 26, which discusses ways and options for a lower rate of taxation; it is said that 8% of the rate. We know that negotiations on this subject with the European Union are exceptional, I will say that they are difficult or have no exit channels, but we also know that the European Union or certain countries of the European Union find different ways in terms of the tradition they have, and in terms of experience, strength and development, different arrangements. I will only give an example of cinematography, which, as we hear every day, has been fed and also the creation of other sources of funding or co-financing, which the National Assembly or Committee on Culture, Education and Sports has already rejected as non-systemic, and I will say that we have always said: we will look for other solutions within taxation. The introduction of a reduction in the tax rate is possible in certain cases, but with very, very - I am talking about negotiations with the European Union - a skilled interpretation of the Directive of the European Union. France has a exempt tax on cinematographic activities, as well as those activities it has presented as a priority in protecting its own, I will say, identity. Not to mention Ireland, where taxation has been so'set up', that they are coming from different countries of Europe to record right there because, instead, the rates of taxation are very favourable. I am speaking because, with the introduction of VAT and with the exemption only to - or a reduced rate only for the holders of words, images and sounds, as is now said in this article, discrimination may occur or take place. Not only because carriers are no longer what they once were - in short, they are physically gone when they talk about satellite transmission, which means they are already being treated differently. Not to mention the question of what is the bearer of something in the statue. In short, the interpretations and implementation of this Article are absolutely not sufficient. I emphasize once again, especially in cinematography, where they happen, I can say, anomalies. But you don't have to agree to that. When the film tape is still unrecorded, it is taxed at a 19 percent rate, while the film's extraction is called a live picture of it, with 8%. However, given that the value of the lost material with the funds invested is not equivalent, this tax is not included or refunded. Given that after one year of calculation, the practice of value added tax has now shown that Slovenian cinematography is 13% more expensive, of course this is a more expensive state budget, because it is largely subsidised, it is also appropriate to look here for a better explanation if I give just one example. Once again, I will support this decision or an additional decision, which I hope will not remain on paper alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. My friend Kelemin wanted to talk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, all of you! Public finances in Slovenia are on the dog. Public finances in Slovenia have been calling for a long time, not calling, we can say they are shouting for consolidation. He's obviously in a great hurry. This, of course, is also evident from the procedure used in this case. Even so far and so far, it is in such a hurry that it has even been violated in certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it has not been time to publish these documents in an appropriate manner, nor has it been time to invite interested public participation, which, of course, has to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Only "post festivals," so to speak, have certain things happened that should have happened before any law was ever introduced into the procedure had to happen. This is unacceptable, and at least I hope that this will not become a practice and that those who are in power will also take this into account in the future. But it doesn't matter! It is important here how and how the government and government intend to consolidate public finances in Slovenia. Of course, the choice is the easiest way and they want to take it where there is even something small, in the economy and in entrepreneurship. Especially as an advocate - always - of the economy and entrepreneurship, because from there I also come and know what it means to first create something, only then to divide and spend, by no means can I agree to what has been proposed and in what way the vital part of the economy that is supposed to bring or to maintain this whole upgrade is to be added. Here, of course, one always wonders where those promises of Mr Drnovšk and also of these authorities, where they will, of course, release certain mechanisms for economic recovery and so on. Even if we look here in some magazines and so on, even the LDS has an entrepreneurship committee at LDS to bring policy and practice closer together, where they "load", you understand, by "planting flowers", how this will be coordinated and how they will strive for successful management and so on. On the other hand, of course, they're "kicking a knife in the back" to the economy and entrepreneurship and trying to finally drain it. My personal opinion is that, of course, it is necessary to seek, in order to consolidate the finances of other sources, other funds in other areas, and in particular - in my opinion - to start saving. In all areas. We talked about this in the previous term. Now there's not much to talk about saving. But in my opinion, the reserves are still huge in this country, the internal reserves that should be used, but because of the power that the whole system leads to, obviously, this will not happen. Here I would also like to mention that these consequences will affect the future performance of the economy, because these consequences will be visible. Of course, over time, they will not only be important for our economy, but will also be important for foreign investment. Surely a number of entrepreneurs from abroad will consider when they see what kind of burdens actually take place here, at least in the case of investment investments, because we know that they are huge sums and that these sums become extremely active in a short time and that they cannot be recovered in some foreseeable time. This will certainly be a major obstacle to foreign investment as well. I would also point out, however, that the VAT law was obviously too much or not well thought out. In view of the statements made by the government representative, I fully agree with him that certain things need to be rationalised, simplified, but should be done in the first draft of the law. But now we will constantly, always with new corrections, forcefully blackmail these matters and put ever-new conditions and ever-new burdens on the economy. That's unacceptable. I would understand that we are going to make it easier for the economy and that we are trying to help them in this way, as we have done in all the long-term documents, but not by trying to burden them more and more on the basis of daily policy. I will also dare to say that, certainly because of all this inefficiency of the VAT law and not a lot of thought, the tax service is probably not qualified to collect taxes, which is, of course, your representative of the tax service, Mr Grilj, who you all support so enthusiastically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. When I looked at the agenda of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the value added tax law, I must admit that I was quite happy and pleased because there were quite a lot of discussions, discussions and discussions already in the adoption of the law, what could be done and what was not done and what the government had promised at the time of the adoption of the law to do, after a year or two, that it would do so. When the discussion brought to this level, as we are today, I am unfortunately disappointed that I am aware that the government intended only to correct one segment of this work in the context of changes and additions to this law. My colleague Moze said that fiscal policy is also a basic instrument for development. I think that tax policy is the basic instrument of policy in general, and this policy in all areas. If we find out what all the Members gathered here have already addressed strategies and long-term plans, unfortunately, I do not see any intention and emphasis from this tax policy of our country, the advantages that our tax policy, for example, would in one way stimulate and give special emphasis, a view, etc. I believe that the basic intention of all political parties in the elections was, of course, development, educational development, culture. But I don't see it through this marriage, and I can't read it. Some of you have pointed out the main points, and I would just like to draw attention to the position of the Slovenian book and call for the adoption of those transitional decisions proposed by my colleague Horvat. The Slovenian book is in a similar position, such as Slovenian cinema, which is already handicapped by a narrow circle due to language and so on, and is, of course, very expensive. It is also expensive because tax policy is as much as it is, because the services that are abetting the creation of the Slovenian book are as taxed as they are, and so on. I strongly hope that the government will be able to do so much power and energy and, however, once a thorough analysis of the effects of tax policy, in particular value added tax, on segments that are so much more sensitive to Slovenia and the Slovenian people. And that, on the basis of this thorough analysis, we will still be able to renovate so much energy and to adopt in some way all the additions proposed at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I had no intention of calling back, but I was encouraged by the debate of my colleague from the Consolidated List. I fully agree with it in this respect that, through tax policy, state policy is illustrated and shows up to all segments, not only to the economy, but also to non-economics, including to various segments such as science, culture, voluntary firefighting and, last but not least, the many other actions of individuals in our society. From this point of view, I stress here that this amendment or this amendment to the law is extremely harmful in particular to the small economy and to small taxpayers. I justify this and I also ask the representative of the government how he can explain to me that this is not true. I agree that for large systems, this change does not, in fact, constitute a significant deterioration. For small ones, it is said - for those taxpayers who could now have a monthly accounting period, but after the new period they will have a six-month period, this means a certain binding of assets that are no longer available to them. They will no longer receive the refund of the overpaid tax in some shorter periods, but will only receive it in nine months or longer. This, I think, is the basic and worst part of this bill. Therefore, as the proponent says, or I don't know who was just saying, that the economy has not reacted and that even agreed on this change - of course, large systems, large systems have a monthly account and for them it does not change significantly; well, those 200,000 tolars will just advance and this probably doesn't mean much to them. For small craftsmen, self-employed, but this solution is very hurtful and therefore I cannot raise my hand for it, because we bet on these people, our economy puts a lot on a small economy because it is innovative, development-oriented. This is where their business and their attitude are exacerbated through tax policy. I therefore stress once again that this new law shows a poor attitude or a lack of development towards this small group of economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Visac. Please, you want a word? You have the floor, Comrade Petan; then the government representative, the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I won't go into the content that much, because my colleagues have already said a lot. But it would be a principled approach to this law. This amendment to this law is a typical example of work that reminds us of the previous period. In a certain segment covered by the law, we failed to achieve the objectives of this law, in this case where the tax was concerned, we failed to collect the tax, which means whether we didn't want it, we didn't want it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, but we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't have it, we didn't ask ourselves what's wrong here, where the shortcomings are, we could only be flaws, but we went into a change of legislation. We haven't been able to collect taxes from large systems, either. It's true there's a lot of taxes that can't be collected anymore. That's clear. But there is a lot of tax that can be collected. And we went to cover that deficit with a change of legislation. What we have in front of us today is a nice, nice way to hit on those who are already paying taxes in one way or another, instead of trying to get on with those who are avoiding it. This law is a typical example of this. I will not support this law, but I will support the amendments that are given to this law and cover a specific area that my colleagues have also talked about. I will support them because this is a serious matter and we should try to do it a little differently, not just on this proposal that has a purely different intention. However, these drafting proposals are fully justified and are worthy of our support. The government will also have to seriously consider treating these areas differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, one of the Members or Members may wish to take the floor at the end of this debate. Please, my friend Pucka, follow him by a colleague of Simšič's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm calling in as a proponent. I would like in particular to contradict those deceptions that have been mentioned here more than clearly. Several debaters spoke of the burden on taxpayers. Of course that's not true. This change, which is minimal, speaks only of the method of accounting, which is in line with the Sixth Guideline, which makes it very clear that Member States have the option to decide for themselves how they will and will pay back the surpluses of the entry tax or take them into account as advance payments for future tax periods. So what you're saying is simply not true. Secondly, this law does not introduce any new taxation. On the contrary. Any amendments tabled at Articles 25 and 26 shall introduce additional or additional exemptions. This would, in essence, achieve the opposite effect, as is essentially meant by this change. This would result in a smaller inflow into the budget and thus even less elegance than it is. Now we need to decide whether to talk about this or to try to improve the minimum liquidity of the state budget and thus allow those payments from the budget, which will be a lot of talk over the coming years, where all the money is too little and where it should be further distributed and subsidised and assisted by what several debaters have been talking about, especially the economic work or segment of this society. As a proposal, I did not mention anywhere that this amendment is necessary in order to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the EU acquis. That wasn't said anywhere. That's what he was talking about, if I recall correctly, a government representative. This debate must have gone this way. The comments made by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry were more or less taken into account or taken into account as far as possible in the amendment to Article 5 of the basic text of Article 53 of the VAT Act. As a proposaler, I reject any substantiation as to how additional taxation is introduced, how this law or this amendment is harmful. However, I allow the possibility, given what several debaters have said, that the information provided to me by the tax administration has been poor or insufficiently accurate. If these data are too accurate, here is the Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly could give him the opportunity to tell him at any time whether their data were, at the time they were proposed and on the basis of which an amendment to Article 5 is also proposed, which addresses the most frequently mentioned bad solution to the basic text of this amendment and the amendments to the law, is correct or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Simšič, let me say that the three have applied for the replica, if I understand correctly, at the performance of my colleague Puck. This is in line, Comrade Petan, Vizjak and Petnik. That's how I give them my word, unless you signed up for the replica? [[No, no, ……]] Then Petan, Vizjak, and Petnik in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. So, I really signed up for the replica. I will also replicate, but in the first place, I will thank Mr Puck, the proposer, for the debate he had. All he did was confirm what I said before. And he made it even more clear that I was alone. I agree with him that this is not recorded anywhere, that this is an additional tax. That's right. This is just an extra tax on the side door. My colleagues explained this well what it would look like. That way I wouldn't lose words about it anymore. I would remind Mr Puck only of the words that confirm my previous debate. In fact, he said that the amendments that were tabled and those proposals went in the opposite direction of the purpose of this law. This is said to be a cash register - on a broader scale - of course liquid. That's what we keep saying. The point is that by the time it's delayed, it's a delay -- there's going to be a cash register at the state level -- whatever it's called -- that's going to get some money. It is true that any entity may not be able to do so, or at least not be so observant. That's what I agree with. But I'm talking about the effect of this marriage as a whole, and that's exactly what Mr. Pucko said. I would like to know if some respected colleagues who are in this Chamber today and who are denying these words to me and my colleagues, after six months or one year, will still be nodding when the data is shown and when a certain segment of the economy is likely to be in serious trouble. Probably not some big system. That's what I agree with. But that big group of small entrepreneurs is going to have quite a problem. I'd like to thank Mr. Puck again for telling us that. I consider it a good thing, as a plus, and I don't replicate so much on his words. I am pleased that we have heard one clear word at least once in this Chamber if the representatives of the government have not been able, and then the motioner has made this clear and loud - and this also counts for something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Now, his hand is raised by his colleague Kelemin. But you wanted to replicate your colleague Petan? But I will give you my word after the performance of colleague Simšič because you applied later. Otherwise, we could go beyond giving our word when a person applies for it. Comrade Visjak has the floor and is followed by Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase Mr. Puck or the motioner. We, too, have discussed only the proposal and not the set of amendments relating to the tax rate. It is therefore inappropriate to say that the debate went to this effect in order to achieve this effect, in order for certain taxpayers to be exempt from tax or tax reduction. Look. I mentioned one case, and I didn't get an answer, and I quote it again. You yourself have written in your own explanation of the law that it will be one - time or that the financial effect of this change of law will be seven or nine billion. On whose account? At the expense of a small economy. That's a fact. Don't tell me it's not like that. I'm giving you one more case. A taxable person who has turnover of up to 10 million tolars per year and goes into investment, goes into whatever, goes to purchase some funds, has an accounting period of six months. This man can expect recovery only after this period. Earlier he could have had a refund after one month, now he'll have a period like this. This is extremely embarrassing for him, as this novel law interferes with his own liquidity and with his own ability to invest and, of course, his own development. That's what I'm talking about and nothing else. If you can convince me that this law doesn't do this, I'll believe it. But you haven't, I'm sorry, so far. However, I would like to point out that all the amendments that have been tabled to this bill are aimed at illustrating politics, our Slovenian policy, individual content, culture and so on. This is where the government said it would address these proposals comprehensively and submit a new law on VAT for re-examination, which should also take this into account. That's why I respect that, and I'm not going to discuss it. However, I am saying that this law for this segment of the economy that I have listed, I am certainly also a member of agriculture, part of agriculture, damaged or harmed for it. It improves their liquidity. But I agree that this is not a new tax. I couldn't agree more. I don't know if anyone talked about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Comrade Visjak. First he has the word of his colleague Drobnic, his colleague Simšičeva and colleague Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. A brief replica of Mr. Puck. Look, it's about getting something that's not really yours. Now, either you get permanent property or you get in control for three months, six months. And if it's money, it's cash. Money is in our country, of course, given the inflation, dear. And it'll be more expensive. So whatever it is to say that it's not that it's not a burden on the economy, I won't believe it. That's what you confirmed yourself with your statement. So all those words, magnificent, about supporting the economy, I don't know, the small economy, but they don't apply. However, with regard to lowering the costs in this regard, because this is how we are going to account, I do not know that any positive good effects would be in order to reduce. However, I have observed with some care how the country collects money from some taxpayers, say 500 tolars, 1000 tolars, as it is involved. Given this consistency, I would also expect in other areas to treat other taxpayers in this way. In this case, it's two different things. In this case, the State owes the taxpayer and, compared to the unpaid taxes, the citizen, the taxpayer or the company, is liable to the State. However, both are of course problematic from the point of view of equality in the market, as I said earlier. If we want to have a democratic society, besides having a growing society, we just have to stick to it. Otherwise, we'll come to a dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. A colleague of Simšičev, a colleague of Kelemin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished representative and government representatives. In view of the fact that we have, in the context of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law within the speedy procedure in the first reading and general, and given the fact that several colleagues and colleagues have touched on issues that are not proposed as the subject being adopted in the law itself, and given that the government representative has said or stated in his position that all these proposals for a government are unacceptable, I would like to join those who are in the framework of the initiatives to amend the 25th and 26th articles of this Act, which the government is supposed to draw up, if we are to support the majority proposal of its colleague, Ferri Horvat, in the next two months, I would like to draw attention, in addition to the knowledge, knowledge, education, culture, identity of the nation and so on, to another segment. This is a question of humanitarian, humanitarian, or disability organizations. These organisations do not charge for their services, display no invoices and are, of course, in a very underprivileged or significantly hampered situation compared to now, in the light of what they used to be. Since I knew all such amendments would be rejected, I didn't even table an amendment. However, from this point of view, I would like, of course, to point out to the Government that the changes it is preparing will also pay attention to these organisations, especially from this point of view, that, in different countries, both the European Union and the wider world, this is not a single concept, but that this is an area that deals with the most vulnerable groups of people in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much, colleague Simšič. He's got a word with his colleague, Kelemina. I'm asking if anyone else will want a word then, or if we can finish the discussion before the break. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much, distinguished president, all of you. I am replicating my colleague, I simply cannot understand or, in view of what he himself has said, he said that the members are making their own decisions in accordance with the Sixth Guideline on how to pay back the entry tax. This is true, Comrade Pucka, but now the question is whether then it is necessary for Slovenia to introduce a very poor system or an unfavourable system of tax return for the economy. After what you have said, I don't know at all, but from your debate it followed essentially as if it were already some positive effects for the economy and then positive effects for the budget. Now I don't know how that's possible, how two people can eat it at the same time, say, in a figurative way, an apple, I don't know what if the first one sings it, what the second one gets. Look, but all of this together wouldn't be so problematic, this change in law wouldn't be so problematic if other things were settled in the country. But these things, the negative effects are bought on each other. If financial discipline were regulated in this country, which I have already raised many questions and this national assembly does not even want to discuss them, or representatives of the authorities, Members of the authorities. They simply do not want to discuss the issue of financial non-discipline. Even after several months, the state, as such as the largest debtor of a certain part of the economy after a few months, does not pay for their services. What does it require of them? However, they require VAT to be paid on invoiced revenues. Can you imagine what that means? This is said not only once, but in many areas, in fact, the one who has to work, who is forced to work, is beaten, and in various areas, the country actually strips him, so that he is finally naked. And that's unacceptable! Therefore, if all of these effects or all of these measures were to be regulated, positive, as in a regulated economy, this change would not necessarily be opposed, in any case. Not to mention late interest; of course, for every late day, for every late hour, the country is accounted for high late interest, but is not prepared in any case to pay back almost any late interest, but if so, I do not know what the lowest rate is. And the entrepreneur, the craftsman, whoever's doing some service for the state, if the state doesn't pay him - I've already said that, even such statements were made when they called the Ministry, I found out, "what are you going to do if you know there's no money" or "why are you working for us when you know we don't have money and we can't pay you, you'll wait, even after a year if it's necessary"? This is what I somehow cannot accept, that, in addition to the lack of order in all other areas, the economy must now, in some way, continue to finance the country in a longer period of time, in order to try to consolidate the budget, although I am aware that for all of these, as you have warned yourself, the effects that the State must or the obligations it must settle must be provided in some way, but not in such a way. That's unacceptable to me. If you have answers to how financial discipline will be resolved and when - invoiced revenues are not even as important, VAT on invoiced revenues - it is important when financial discipline, reasonable payment deadlines will be adjusted to take account of late interest also for beneficiaries, not just for the country, and so on. When all these things are arranged - say your hands when this will be arranged - and if you put your reasonable hands on them, I am also ready to support these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	There are no more Members and Members of Parliament among those who have been declared. Secretary of State, I give you my word. If no one replicates your performance then we will conclude the debate and start another reading in the afternoon. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	Dear Members and Members! Since the introduction of the value added tax system in France, since 1977, when this significant 6th Directive was adopted, and then many more, we have a poor two-year system of value added tax introduced after that long period of previous transport tax. It is normal, as we have stated in the Government's programme, that after two years we have planned a first revision, taking into account all the experience, including the problems that arise in everyday life, and not least the innovations that are emerging in the management and business of economic operators in essence without being touched by that basic system of value added tax, for example, electronic commerce and similar things. Therefore, the first revision of the value added tax law has been announced and the government fully supports the proposal of Member Horvat to prepare as soon as possible, because this is already in preparation, i.e. changes in the law in a systemic sense, not only on a small segment as shown in this part. Indeed, Mr Pucko as a bill-maker also said that in the framework of the budget package we have proposed some changes, taking into account the practice and experience of the tax administration in particular, and of all aggregate indicators, why in this part of talking about the budget in Parliament, why some of the things that will go in favour of this, as has been said, public finances that are on the dog, but are in fact indeed a difficult liquidity situation. In particular, from this point of view, see if we look at data for the year 2000. Last year, 162 billion were recovered, a surplus of the entry tax. Today we are talking about these changes of 0.72% of potential recoveries. We're only talking about one billion 174 million if, I say, we're looking at data relatively for 2000. It's a real reflection. If 0.72%, which may be temporarily delayed, means chaos, constitutes a failure to encourage the most vital part of the economy, then, of course, I think it is very easy to draw the final conclusion. All these 0.72% claims represent 45% of the return administrative procedures. From here comes this basic objective, this basic orientation, that the government has supported Member Puck, that the costs of rationalising administrative procedures would lead to these changes, as proposed. But there was a lot of talk today about the profession. Mr Bernik said he wondered where the combined institutions were to support the taxpayers and so on. The taxpayers' association exists. It is true that this association of taxpayers has larger economic operators in its membership. There is a company of tax advisers, which was already mentioned in the presentation by Mr Visiak that he also made comments. So someone stands up for the taxpayers and it's normal. In view of the fact that there has been a discussion of the profession, I think it is necessary, on behalf of the profession, to answer the Member of Mr Visiak when he asked where these economic effects are now, or whether it is true that the State is taking something, taxing it or not, or not returning it. Very simple. The point is that you have 100 units on your way in, say, to sell for 120, 150 or more units. You add added value to your work. Thus, in principle, the exit is increasing from entry. Only in exceptional economic situations is there a surplus of the entry tax over the exit tax. This is not a vital part of the economy, for exporters, where it is a vital part of them, that the input part may be very important or that exporters are essentially excluded from this because they have a constant surplus, it only takes place in the case of investments, at the time they go into investment, and in those exceptional cases where a company with little added value purchases at the entry of raw materials, materials and work and other services at 19% and sells with little added value at 8% value added tax. At the time when an entity issues an exit invoice paid to it by the contracting authority, this is the same economy that you said would be affected - these small economic operators - will receive VAT paid to the State, which must then be ordered or eventually reimbursed to the State. So if we're looking at the proposal, and if we're dividing the 6-month amount of 30 thousand by six months, it's going to be 5,000 tolars of the monthly surplus of the entry over the exit. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this can be the reason for this economy, of course, this vital part of the economy to come into a chaotic situation. I think that in this segment, given the relative 0.72 per cent, of course they are also professionally justified, not only politically, as some of you have just identified, but mainly professionally supported requirements, and therefore the government has also agreed that even though the first revision of the value added tax law is announced, we are going in this budget package also with these changes which are essentially rationalising costs on the one hand and on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak wanted a word. I ask whether, because it's 13 o'clock, if anyone else would like to explain their views, because otherwise they would have listened to a fellow Visian and then concluded the general debate and moved on to another reading this afternoon. I'm also a colleague of Visjak's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Look, it confirms what I said. It's not really about chaos, it's not about disaster, I'm not talking about it. But it's a significantly worse condition. As you yourself have found, for a significantly worse condition for that part of the small economy that is investing, which is developing, it will be worse. Why is he getting worse? In view of the fact that he will no longer have an accounting, small economy, I stress that he now has a six-month accounting period, he will receive the matter back in a significantly longer period than he would have received after the old regulation, which disstimulates him in investing and development. That's what I'm talking about. As for savings of 0.72 percent, I agree with absolute value, but dynamics are unfavourable. In finance, it is not only an absolute amount but also a very important dynamic. If dynamics are unfavourable, this can also be decisive. And once again, if we are talking about rationalisation, I would suggest that you think about netting at different tax addresses such as VAT, such as the activity tax and the like. There's nothing to be done here. On the one hand, someone is in debt, somewhere else has to pay, there would be rationalisation and we could really do something about it in terms of the anti-biocratic program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. This afternoon we will move to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I'm adjourning the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear Members and Members who are near the Chamber, I ask politely that they join us because we are not yet in such an assembly so that we can continue the work of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 4th session, on 11.4.2001, of the following Members and Members: Alojz Peterle for the whole day, Dr Slavko Gaber for the afternoon part of the session, Borut Šuklje for the afternoon part of the session, Jožef Špindler from 11 a.m. and Yuri Malovr from 3 p.m. on. In the morning work, we concluded with the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I'm sorry. Let's find out first. There are 52 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. So we're moving on to the second reading. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11.4.2001. On the bench we also received an amendment from Member Dorian Marshich. I am putting four amendments to the new A1 article in the debate and decision, under number 1 of the amendment, which is proposed by a group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet; the Government opposes the amendment, as well as by the parent working body. Under number 2, the amendment of which is proposed by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Valentin Pohorce, the Government and the home labour body also support the amendment, with the footnote, if the amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendments under points three and four is irrelevant. Under three is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, the government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support. Under four is the amendment proposed by Franco Puksic, the government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support. I am opening a debate on the four amendments to the new Article A1. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Puksich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! With regard to the proposal for a law amending the value added tax law, on VAT, I did not participate in the general part of the debate, although these interventions have been recently or in the last fourteen days, and especially during the last week, by economic operators, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. However, since, of course, substantively, everything has already been said, I did not want to delay the matter by re-examination. However, very little has been said about the three amendments tabled by Mr Pohorc, the Youth Party's parliamentary group, and the amendments with the signature of my smallness, regarding the change in the taxation of firefighting, i.e. the purchase of equipment in such or other form. These three amendments, in fact, differ only in scope. Mine's the most tempted, at least it helps the fire department, the other two. I therefore propose that it be accepted, either under the second or the amendment under point two or the amendment under three. If one or the other had not been accepted, it would be difficult to understand, in fact, that an amendment under point four would not have been adopted, which only refers to motor vehicles intended for voluntary firefighting. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as voluntary firefighting is concerned and as far as the tax change from 19% to 8% is concerned, no one can say that this is contrary to European Union standards. I myself recall the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because I was a member of this Committee in the previous term when we discussed whether the equipment for the operation of the fire service could be put on this part, one or the other, which would not be taxed. Alone and some others we have been quite committed to such a solution, but given the then power of the coalition, this matter has not been accepted. I hope that today, despite some, I will say, warnings by some Members and the Ministry, but understanding between Members and Members will prevail. Last but not least, there is a house in which Parliament is debated, and, last but not least, it is not mandatory for everything to be accepted as it is at the will of the government. They can tell what that would mean financially if they didn't collect a higher rate of tax from this part, which means 19%, but would only pick up 8%. What does this difference mean? But at the same time, if they know how to say these numbers, then they should also say what it means for the Republic of Slovenia if firefighting does not work. How much more costs, in one way or another, would have been incurred in the event that the matter would not have been to a large extent from voluntary to professional firefighting. I am even convinced that when accepting this amendment, either of these three, it is totally irrelevant, however, because it does not matter which political option this amendment proposes. It doesn't matter which party. It doesn't matter which individual. Elementary accidents, fires, droughts, hails, whatever you want, not choice, not by individual, not by human, not by political party, not by definition, not by rich or poor, short, fire or any other basic accident, where it strikes, strikes violently, strikes people, and of course the worst, strikes many times even after what is most precious, most valuable, these are lives. However, colleagues and colleagues, although some feel that this is a less important matter, are less important for an individual until he is affected by any major accident, even if you want a traffic accident or any other accident. Always, they were firefighters and firefighters, either professional or voluntary, who were the first to help at the most critical moments. These are the facts, these are the arguments. None of you in this room can make any different arguments if they don't. Because of a few hundred, or thousands, or even lower potential, I could say, ten to the minus, I don't know how much, fifth or seventh, in the budget, of course, it can't. [[...]] [[Uproar in the hall - sound warning of the chairman.]] Thank you very much for allowing for further discussion in this regard. I know, my colleagues, that some people don't care, but like I said, when you're going to feel an elementary accident on your own, and of course I don't want to do that to any citizen or citizen, but it's not resting, it's always happening to us, unfortunately many times on very large scales, from all kinds of fires, reptiles and so on. At that time or at that time, of course, a number of people may even remember these discussions, or at that time they will not laugh at such a, I think, very important and very serious debate. In the event of elementary disasters, it is hard to imagine or not to imagine - at least those who know life in demographicly endangered areas, where the unemployment rate is also in this country above 20%, those who know life, where the personal income for 8 hours is 40 or 50 thousand net payments, do not know how these people in these areas will live without voluntary firefighting societies, without voluntary hours and brought hectolitres of water for human survival, for survival of animals, for survival of life in this area, unless, of course, we will allow them to do so in some way. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that you do not make a decision in this amendment in the opinion of the Government not to make a decision in the opinion of a committee which could not be otherwise. I understand from the Government and the Committee that they had to give such an opinion formally. Of course, the decision on this amendment is in our hands, and if you decide as we all wish to support one of these amendments, then you will decide to do well what we call humanitarian activities, in order to carry out what we call a voluntary and free humanitarian activity. That's what this is about. It would therefore be appropriate to support one of these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. They entered the debate in order of order: first Mr Roman Jakič, then Mr Aloise Sok and Mr Dorian Marshič. Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In fact, I would like to take the floor to support the amendment tabled by my colleague, Dorian Marsic, in the process and in the decision-making process. Of course, it is equipment and services financed from foreign donations to rehabilitate victims of wars from other countries. Look, this national council or all those who [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Comrade Jakič, if you please, this is the amendment to Article 26, which will follow. The Secretariat has found that it is wrongly submitted, that it is B1 and that we will deal with it as soon as we address the four amendments that I have previously mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	But you also read the announcement from Dorian Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	No, no, not now, definitely not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	I'm sorry. I'll check in later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Juice, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I think so, and I would like to support what our fellow Member, Mr Puksic, has said. Three amendments have been tabled on the same subject. It is a matter of supporting firefighting companies in order to avoid paying value added tax when purchasing equipment for their basic firefighting activities from those funds they raise by means of sponsorship. Indeed, it would be right to support this, but in the debate today there were some other proposals concerning science, humanitarian organisations and other organisations, and then there are some other conclusions that we will consider under this law. However, we now have the opportunity to support this and it would certainly be right to decide, in our own way, at times beyond the government's point of view, what action, what kind of a proposal for laws that we think makes sense. Since the three amendments are written here on the same subject, I may, before the vote itself, propose a five-minute recess on behalf of our Group of Members and ask all three proposers to unite around one amendment. I am afraid that if we vote all three of us in order, no one will receive adequate support. I propose this on behalf of our Group of Members, and I ask the President that before she puts the amendments to the vote, five minutes to agree on which amendment would remain common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Dorian Marshich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that although this was not the basic purpose of the adoption of this law, it is the right place to draw attention to a particular issue, particularly with regard to the tax rates relating to humanitarian activities. One of these, of course, is a fire organisation and the other is additional. One of these I pointed out in particular in the special amendment. However, if I focus on amendments relating to facilitations or lower rates for the acquisition of equipment intended for firefighting organisations, I must say that of all these three amendments, the most consistent is the amendment of Mr Pohorc or the group of Members signed under his amendment, because it refers to the fire-fighting rescue equipment used by the firefighters' organisations, not the firefighter's society. If you write only fire companies, I must say that you are discriminatory to all the firefighters involved. And if I go any further, this one too, I will say, Mr Pohorca's amendment is discriminatory with this to other organisations that are also engaged in intervention in the event of accidents. I can name a few of them here. It's civil protection, which is a broader concept, there are units of pre-hospital units here, and there's something else I can count on, from the Red Cross and the like, who also acquire equipment and belong to this type of activity. I must say that this criticism of the shortcomings of this amendment will certainly be applied in its amendment, which will be discussed later. That is why I propose that we focus essentially on the decision proposed by my colleague Horvath to discuss this in full and comprehensive terms in the following amendments to the value added tax law. Otherwise, we'll cause some imbalance in the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri Malovrew, please. Then Mr. Leo Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. I will answer and support this amendment, but not in that sense, as the amendment has now been written, but then in the third reading of the amendment to correct itself. In this form, when civil protection funds are provided, it is in this sense, as my colleague Marsic has now discussed, that, given that the funds are then also poor from the municipal budget and are not intended only for a fire-fighting vehicle, but for all equipment to help people in distress, as well as for the facilities and preparations that serve it. For the municipal budget gives the municipalities substantial resources under the law for this purpose, and in this way these funds are being crushed and it would be necessary in the amendment later and in the law itself to define the matter. I think that the same thing is then going into the state budget itself. Here we're actually moving resources from the left pocket to the right pocket. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I must say that I fully agree with Mr Marsic's debate and I would suggest, of course, if it is possible for the amendment's proponents to essentially withdraw the amendments, not because I would disagree with these amendments, for example with the basic idea of this amendment or these three amendments in relation to firefighting, I fully agree, but simply things are not ready. And the decision that colleague Horvat has proposed, which we will finally get to the hearing, goes in the direction of preparing these matters, and is valid for all the amendments -- I am talking about all of them, but I am talking about them being prepared and then they are thoroughly approached by revisions or additions to this law. We will do a number of injustices to some similar areas or organisations, and therefore I think it would be more prudent in this case to withdraw these amendments and, by June - or by when it is proposed in the decision - to deal with these matters, to prepare them honestly, fairly in this regard, well, and, of course, then to make a new amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar wants to replicate Mr Pukšič, and then Mr Rudolf Moge took the floor. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Look, I don't think this is the right way to go. A significantly more correct direction, given that this is also the first reading, is that, as already proposed by colleague Sok and I myself as a motion for an amendment - I hope that the other two, that is, the young party and Mr Pohorec - take a ten-minute recess before this vote and agree to make a joint amendment and, of course, withdraw the rest. However, I agree with both previous debaters that the matter needs to be prepared more thoroughly. Look, we also have a fire safety tax in the Fire Safety Act, and we don't do that. When we asked Durs what it was like, they said there were no real grounds. In short, you don't know how or what. This remains an open problem. The problem remains as some have warned before. Look, I don't think we can tax the work that firefighters take as a voluntary contribution from my personal net income, anyway, in their time of volunteering and so on! In short, it is a complex matter, it must be considered, a matter needs to be drawn up, but with one harmonised amendment. Colleagues and colleagues, let's take just one step, take this step to change the tax rate from 19% to 8% in the grave, and, of course, engage or activate this debate, or this preparation, which will not, by June, cause, not in this or in another direction, any, I don't know, huge problems, but will be prepared to do so in the event of the predicted amendment of the value added law in two or three months, this can be fully and comprehensively solved, not only for these voluntary or not only for these humanitarian societies, but, of course, for others, which has also been warned. So, however, colleagues and colleagues, this is a step if we do it today, which will lead to the final result, but if we do not take this step today, of course, it is aware that I am afraid it will drag it too far; because this will also force the government to do something about it, because we have discussed this several times in the previous term and there has been no more hearing about this issue to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate is hot because the words used "the firefighters' organisation of the Republic of Slovenia" and I am very glad that we are working so hard for firefighters. But I would like to stress, now there are two major shifts: one in the past cone of events, and the other in the transitional cone of events. The one from the past cone of events was that it was once the password: culture and education, this will be our revenge. And it was - so education, education always - as primary, but after funding it was always last. If I look now at the future hub, which we are building here in this National Assembly, but it's science, and it's science. And I've already told you before, look, I mean election programs, adopted, all parties, what the role of science is there. You have before you this first amendment, which no one thought was worth talking about, I've already talked about it, and I would end up just giving a quote. If you look at your program, and your key here now means "hic Rhrodus, hic saltas".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no - Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If it really was one step, as my colleague Pukšič says, for one of the most urgent cases, we could say: well, let's make an exception and then we solve the rest. And I'm sure that's the point for firefighters, probably, among those in the first place. But, colleagues and colleagues, I'm afraid, or I'm sure it won't just be one step, but it'll be more steps. This comes from a debate that has already been here today. And my colleague Moze answered, not to say unjustifiablely, but justifiablely. The proposal is for demining. A colleague of Majda Shirca said that she listed certain purposes, a colleague of Danica said that she had not tabled an amendment, but that she also had emergencies; and then we would come to where the mess would actually start and also irresponsible behaviour, irresponsible decision-making, because there are probably still some cases that we would have to deal with as a matter of urgency. An example of foreign donations because of criticism from abroad we are also experiencing at this expense. And I could keep saying it like that. Therefore, I propose that we refrain from being reasonable, two months or three, and there will be no special harm if, for some purpose, where the proposal is justified to reduce or exempt VAT payments, if we wait that long, there will be so much greater expenditure on the part of the State, then there will have to be a purpose for some - even for firefighters, where it is absolutely necessary. Then, in full and reasonable terms and also in accordance with European standards and obligations, the matter is resolved. I therefore propose whether the colleagues who tabled the amendments withdraw or vote against these amendments and commit the government to draw up a proposal. If we think this deadline is too long, well, let's cut it short, say - I don't know, by the end of May - that the government is preparing a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. So since my colleagues said a lot about the Firefighters Amendment, I didn't want to get involved because they basically said the content. However, now I am a bit tempted by the discussion by Mr Ferri Horvat. I agree with him in principle, but I just think that the government has been available for a long time, because we have been pointing to this issue for some time. I'd give you this. I have said before that I will support all the right proposals, from school, as proposed by Mr Moge, I have also heard other proposals, Mrs Danice Simšič, Mrs Majde Širc, as well. Now I'd say the essential thing. Mr. Ferri Horvat said that if we wait another two or three months, there would be no material damage. I think that this law and this amendment came at such a time that it can't be better or worse - any way we look at it. What am I trying to say? There have been five fires in Celje in recent months, and such - there is no need to be surprised, but nothing to fight with the head, distinguished representatives of the government! - that it's billions of dollars worth of damage. This law - if we adopt all the proposals that are here - will not be a tenth of that amount, nor a hundred of that amount, as much as the damage has been caused. I agree with the government representatives that this may be brought about by a certain mess, and I take this for a lease. However, the fact is, what colleagues say is that as long as this voluntary firework is still working for us, it is as it is - because we have a case in a neighbouring country where it is totally "spoiled" and it does not even work voluntarily or professionally, because it has not worked. And as long as this segment works so well for us, and it works really well for us - I come from an area where there was a fire on Saturday, and if the firefighters didn't come in in such a fast time, there would be such damage that they probably couldn't even assess it. There's talk about half a billion damage. And I think if we put some funds through this, it would have come back to us a long time ago. However this will be voted on, I will of course support this and I would like and ask my fellow Members, regardless of their political affiliation, to support and give some support. Of course, this does not mean that this does not need to be fully addressed. But let me tell you, if we're going to get to the seventh floor, we can't jump to the seventh floor, but we're going down the stairs. And if that's the first step to a dead end, then we've done a lot. I think that there is no need for another important company to burn down in Slovenia, which also gives us much more in the budget than we would have lost in the budget register. I hope and wish that this would not happen and that we would not report every so long a fire in Slovenia, which was rescued by voluntary firefighters with equipment that they must buy for money by begging. Please also see this from this point of view, and then it will be easier to vote. I also support legitimate requests, requests, doubts raised by other Members in other areas. I fully understand, and I will support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I miss the government responding. The principle of European VAT capture is primarily based on the singlest possible dose rate. It is precisely because partial exemptions or reduced rates allow for a full range of abuses. Of course, then, it is a matter of the state and the state budget as it comes back from the state budget to support humanitarian organisations through such or other subsidies, through such and otherwise exemption, through both financial support, as I have said. To humanitarian organisations like firefighters and so on. The partial fragmentation or reduction and remission of VAT rates leads sooner or later to an uncontrolled dose of VAT, resulting in some type of anachronism within the system. We need to be aware of that, so it's good to cut this thing loose in a few minutes and get in line. Partial interference now in the system, the concept of VAT is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Brenčič, I thank you very much, because it was precisely because the government representatives did not want to come forward, because I think it was very happy to hear your opinion, which we have been associating with professionally. What would this area be if we had a partial discussion on all possible matters? See, similar requests for reduced tax rates or exemptions are in the fields of science, culture, books, cinema, CDs, arts, education, health care, medical equipment, paramedics, the Red Cross, international humanitarian and even humanitarian organizations, police buying equipment, hospital buying medical equipment, firefighters, army training pilots going to Log under Mangart and similar matters; all societies, mountains, mountain rescue service, small craftsmen with products with ethnographic characteristics and more. None of us say that this is necessary, socially beneficial, but you have already said in your reply correctly: it does not go on the side of paying the tax because VAT is a tax on the sale of services and goods. And it must be equal and be evenly included in the price. Secondly, it is a matter of resolving the situation of all these institutions, organisations and these activities on the expenditure side of the budget for grants, sponsors and the provision of funding for this. That is why the government did not want to announce itself, for we can only debate these things indefinitely, as well as the kind of others that come daily. See, in the value added tax system, we have a general tax rate. The term already says and also tends - not only the tendency, it is agreed, not only the sixth, but also with all the other directives of the European Union concerning VAT - to harmonise tax rates and to one general general level. And a reduced tax rate is just an exception to "par excellence". That's the point. And it's not because we don't want to be a society, or a state, or a government of this activity, that equipment, and everything I've previously found that matters to you, as it is. And that's why we didn't hold our heads when you mentioned Mr. Ambassador, because of the fires. I was living alone with Celjska for 27 years, living alone 30 meters from a voluntary fire company, and I was also a member of primary school and so on. I know things. But in addition, they are all left; and I say, it is not the solution to buy VAT on equipment when purchased, but to provide funds to finance this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	Yes, and, of course, the debate developed in this direction, which we have in fact least wanted and least expected. Good. All voluntary firefighters, we just throw in the same basket as everything else. It's, of course, simple. I used to be. I'm not anymore. If the mermaid is dead today, probably don't step where it's necessary in the car and - of course - we're going to save lives and possessions by "risking" and putting our lives on the altar. It's not okay. Look! Things are different in other European countries. Actually, when I was talking to the firemen. Of course, I myself have known voluntary firework for several decades. Nowhere or no one has told me that voluntary contributions that are being collected would be taxed elsewhere - so this is also the case. Look, there's another option. Of course there is! However, distinguished representatives of the government, and in the previous mandate, you have the same representatives of the Ministry of Finance. And what kind of solution did you come up with? You didn't! When we come Members who are not experts in this field, with some proposals for solutions, then of course - but - critics after them; because - I don't know, they are "tumatists" and I don't know what because they are now inventing some kind of firefighting. All right! If that's what you think, fine. I hope so, but I can only hope that you won't be able to think that way for too long. Then you suggest a solution! Propose a solution under the Fire Safety Act, where there is a fire safety tax, propose a solution in this direction, and suggest a solution that the government, the Ministry of Finance, what I know, who, at the end of the year to all those firefighters, will return the fees paid over the year. All right! But let him return to them for firepower, to carry out this public fire service. Okay! You will say: because the funding is saved: from the local community, from the country. Yes, it is. Tell us how much resources are being made from the country to carry out a voluntary fire operation! After that formula, which consists of - under which is a law on financing, i.e. on finances in municipalities, according to that formula, it is of course a matter of extreme clarity where it speaks of the performance of the statutory and constitutional tasks, from that area. But, but it is, colleagues and colleagues, to buy a vehicle, to be able - to voluntarily save the lives of other people, their property and, of course, to have the opportunity to put your life on the altar of this rescue, such vehicles are simply too expensive for voluntary firefighting societies and, of course, also for the congregations. In all possible ways, they want to get these funds together and, of course, then get it, and countries from all these sources must also report this 19%. There's no excuse. There's really no excuse! I don't know what else to do to be ready to listen to and to bring things to one of the solutions in this area. It was necessary to do something to be heard - after three years, since 1997 - even those who invested too much in telecommunications, and it is now adopted such a article in a law that allows them to have a solution within half a year. If we accept one of these amendments - or this amendment - we have already agreed that, before the vote, the President will give a 10-minute recess - we will coordinate, one amendment will be, this initial step, as in the telecoms law, will be possible; so will what will bring in the next three, four or six months, I believe, also a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Because no one wants Mr. Tone Anderlich anymore! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	I thought you'd be faster and I'd ask procedurally. But given that this announcement of this recess was mainly understood by Mr Pukšič in a way that would prepare another amendment that would somehow interfere with this law. However, because I intend to propose a break for another purpose, and this is to harmonise the LDS Members, not to support any amendments or to propose the withdrawal of the law from the procedure. It is unacceptable, and impossible, in the title of the law, in the introduction of the law, to define what they want to regulate, to set targets, to correct a small part of the law adopted by this national assembly for three, four years, which the government has imposed with torment and in these first months or a year and a half, as far as it already applies, has thus produced results as in some countries where VAT has been introduced in a similar way - if you want: from Canada, Croatia and elsewhere. Of course, we cannot allow ourselves, easily, with our left hand, to change the basic philosophy and things of the law through a procedure that has been designed for other things. I will tell you in advance, before the break, that these two possible solutions, which we will discuss in the framework of the parliamentary group, although I can - I have talked about this many times before - I am bitterly talking about how I am raising money for firefighters, for athletes, for science, for I don't know what else, but we have to pay the VAT. But this is because there is such a system in this country, and so far there is no other alternative, no better solution has been offered, only suggestions, "forgive these, forgive these or other VAT activities". I therefore propose that this law be adopted in a form - with amendments that are necessary because the law is operational and that it achieves the objective for which it has been tabled. However, because of me, all interested, I will also cooperate with you - to sit down and look for variants of what things would otherwise be done to the firefighters, I don't know, to the humanitarians and others, to help them achieve a similar purpose than you want to achieve. I don't deny the good intentions of anyone who's ever talked about it, but in this law, we can't handle it. And I regret if anyone will abuse my performance of being against firefighters, human beings, or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Well, I find it very embarrassing that Mr Anderlich is somehow teaching us how to quickly try to bring some things into this law, but when you are actually the biggest party and you are the most responsible, that most of the laws in this Parliament are passed just like this, on the hook, quickly. So, you're responsible for this yourself and you're doing it yourself, and please don't say that to others. So this thing that's been sticking, of course, hasn't been since yesterday. And what a government official has said is not true either. He has counted several organisations, but most of them are financed by the budget. Here we are talking about matters where money is collected with voluntary contributions, mostly through voluntary contributions. I also agree that such exclusion would be pointless and would result in a chain reaction, but I also agree that the government should then propose another solution for this area. Let him propose in the framework of the Income Act or something else! But if we accept this today, I am sure that we will somehow commit the government to forcing it to propose an amended law within a period of time and to take all these proposals and initiatives into account in this law. Here, I say again, for those funds which our citizens themselves voluntarily suggest; it is said that from private pockets money is then poured into the Treasury in this way and I do not believe that any more is going back to these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr Anderlich, then Mr Petan and Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	There is a slight difference in the fact that I agree that the government, including the government Members, are often making laws by means of a fast procedure. [[...]] But it is an essential difference if a law is amended, as it is, consistent with the basic law, so by change and goes into procedure, from when someone -- let's say now comes amendments to the table -- with amendments so basically wants to change the whole. That's an essential difference. You must agree. The problem that you end up saying, "Let's accept it in this law so we can bind the government to do something." It's not working. I don't think it's possible, because the law with this, I'm going to say in quotes, we're going to do something that is now -- at least, there are mistakes, there are problems in implementation, as I'm monitoring these reports on the introduction of VAT and just this first month of accounts, accounts and so on -- that now with some intervention in this law, just to reserve later regulation in the second law to bring this into this law. By the decisions of the National Assembly or by agreement or by whatever agreement, by commitment, but not by interfering with this law in order to go back to doing and correcting that law. I find this unproductive work and, of course, I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. Well, in this debate, I'm not going to tell Mr. Anderlich he doesn't mind. Oh, no. That's because I know he's probably working very hard on his own at some point, and he's picking up money for someone. However, I think I need to pay general attention to three things. The first is that countries have a lower VAT rate, but some have a zero rate. That is said, but these are certain things that the state wants to solve in this way. No rate - after all, it can also be resolved indirectly, so that you get back or anything, in any other form. All this is possible. I'm not saying that there are 100 countries here, but things can be solved this way, and ultimately we don't have to make sure it's one or two, or ten, or whatever it is, or in Europe or wherever it goes. That's the first one. Second. Countries that are very successful, or at a certain point become "tigers", as we call them, have usually done something unusual; they have reduced taxes. Not that they increased taxes, but to lower taxes and get more taxes. Because a certain development process has usually been created, which has given more tax in the final stage. Not that those who work to bring them in even more, then destroy that one. We know this from the economy, and we'll probably be in a very short time witness to this in the most successful or -- I don't know how to say it, in a country I don't know. This is the United States where the new president predicts a tax reduction of billions of dollars. How they do it, that's another matter. But the point is that the legislation we have and the taxes we have and the taxpayers have to pay everything strictly. The tax administration in one country has to collect all that. Now what I'm trying to say is, that's the third thing that is. If we were to collect all those taxes from the taxpayers we should collect in Slovenia, then it would probably be too little to cover everything we have proposed today. I'm not saying it's the right way. But the facts are such. I agree that as much as possible a single tax rate is the most elegant solution, because it is at least administrative work. That's what I agree with. However, here is some of the state's ability to collect taxes, even if the system is a little more complicated, and this shows the success of a service which is a state service in this case, this is called a tax administration to avoid, even if the system is a little more complicated, a variety of distortions of this system and various abuses. With us, I couldn't exactly say - what we're hearing, what we're reading - that we're the most successful at these abuses. I'm not saying that all countries are 100% successful, that's probably nowhere. You don't have to convince me to do that, and I agree with that. I'm not exactly sure that we are on top of this after the success of recovery from taxpayers. The solutions that we are proposing have other countries, and we can call them something else. We would just like the government to propose a better solution than we have given it. Since the introduction of value added tax, the Defence Committee has been reminded of the problem in firefighters. I do not say that others are not justified, but on this committee, which I myself have led, we have already warned about this. However, so far there have been no better solutions than we have proposed here. If these amendments are an incentive to get rid of anything, then I also agree that we must go in this direction and I will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please. I'm sorry. You didn't sign up? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Look, Mr. Anderlich. It is difficult to accept the criticism that now something "ad hoc", to speed, on the side, on the left and on the right, because it doesn't matter which way, to bring something into the marriage. Look. Article 201 of our Rules of Procedure states: a rapid procedure for the adoption of legislation, where the emergency needs of the State, the interest of defence or of natural disasters so require, may be adopted by means of a rapid procedure. The representative of the governments said today that the interest of the state is, not a defence, not an elementary accident, but an extraordinary interest of the state, that it will turn $1.12 billion longer than otherwise, if, of course, it were to be charged monthly, as so far, an entry and exit tax. If this is an extraordinary interest of the state and if it is not more of a state interest, that these voluntary fire companies, however, in what I have already said, equipment and so on, allow them - we have not proposed a zero rate tax, we have proposed a change from 19 per cent to 8 per cent. The representatives of the government and the Ministry of Finance should state exactly what this means in the finances if this is voted. But look, I do not agree that such a way of adopting a change in the VAT law is an extraordinary need of the state and that this is, of course, necessary under a rapid procedure. One member said, among other things, that fire companies are well funded or have public funds. They have public funds in the local community. But look, even if they have 2 percent, the municipalities that have -- let's say -- suitable spending of about 200 million, that's 4 million. Why? There's, like, two to five fire companies in there. I took very average in Slovenia from 192 municipalities. With these means it is necessary to provide equipment, heating at home, then insurance of vehicles and persons operating, fuel for vehicles, then maintenance, mainly older vehicles, whose maintenance is, of course, more expensive, then servicing, lastly also - if you want - education organised at Igu and, of course, not all have the same opportunities, because those coming from demographically endangered areas, from Slovenian mountains or Haloz, are also needed for travel costs, daily subsistence and so on. Acquisition of one or two respiratory appliances, which, of course, is urgently needed and so on and so on. In short, the obvious is probably not in place, but I agree, Mr Anderlič, that we should sit together, we have tried this in the previous term, even through the Defence Committee, even the fire liaison was here; unfortunately we were present at that meeting, I think only two Members. That means what the interest was. Whatever happens in this direction will be fine. What you've read to me is that it was unfair to predict blah, blah, blah, extra things, additional exemptions and so on - it's not true. That's not true! All I said was that I'm one of the proponents prepared with the other two candidates to sit together and unify one amendment, and the other two we're going to withdraw. Or mine, or mine, and another; in short, it will be one of these amendments. That's all I was talking about. That is why we have asked the President to give 10 minutes of recess before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich wants to replicate, and then Mr Pohorec applied for the debate. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	I don't have much hope of convincing Mr Pukšič of what he thinks. But I'm going to tell her that she'll hear from the other side. And I didn't tell you anything, but I understand from your words that you have a purpose: either to table the amended amendment, or to supplement the amendment, or whatever, but it's in the distance from the basic text that's being proposed here and with which we want to settle some issues. Yes, I agree, Mr Pucko made a mistake by introducing the law in a fast procedure. I would have had to do it in short and settle what we wanted to do and I do not believe that we could vote against the reduced procedure and because of one third of the opponents, of course, it would not go into a reduced procedure because it is indeed, Mr Pukšič, for regular or extraordinary - rather, I would say the extraordinary needs of the country - to adopt this law as one of the six laws that you know are in the budget debate package - and also the law on the implementation of the budget in addition to this and the budget itself - if this country were to have as much stable public finances. If it's not the first case that he has stable public finances, that he can also deal with military issues and all the other things you're talking about, then I don't know what that is. I think it's an extraordinary need for the state. The things are ready, you have been informed that the second week will also be an extraordinary one, and first, the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where we will try to settle these issues for this year. And this marriage - why did the government hang on to Puck's marriage? Because there's just two more in the back. Because two more in a row are behind similar things. And the rulings have the possibility that this law, which it has drawn up in order to make public finances even with the help of this law - whether it is a billion or two or three, what effect it will have, in the final stage is not important - but it is a segment or an element of all the issues and things that will contribute to us - as we think - being able to arrange for public finance in this year. That's what this is about. And that is why I say that, at this point - in any case, I regret that some things cannot be settled - it is pointless to spread the debate in a different direction from the purpose for which the law was introduced. And once again, it's a shame it's not a short-circuit procedure. And in the future, I will certainly, at least where I'm going to work with you, suggest that when it comes to so much - I will say - the beginning of such a great system law as the VAT law, as I said before, it was not a simple matter that we just ended in the previous term. I think that even the Social Democrats voted in favour of the law at the end, because it was - let's say - a step forward to try with some such minor intervention - I'll say - essentially change things. This can be done and I think it is right; the law is in short process and only the segment that really wants to be regulated is settled. But everything else should be governed by reasons and regular procedures, and so on, because laws change and it is right to do so, because life too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec has the floor, then Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Of course, in a way, I am glad that this conflict has even occurred. Obviously, everyone in this room - or at least most - knows - whether or not we have realized - that there is a real problem. Because if it wasn't, there wouldn't be so much debate and there would certainly be a lot of you thinking that we should sort of resolve this issue. That is why this has happened and the opportunity has taken place, do not blame me, that in these changes of this law with the fire union of Slovenia, we have come to the attention of the problem and have proposed one solution. Why the chance now? Because I know that in the past there have been many tests on how to resolve the problem of financing fire financing in Slovenia with the government or the departmental ministry, because it has been poorly resolved for years. When we reach the Minister of Defence, he also promises to support this amendment, and it is no longer possible. Nice support really doesn't do us any good. I would only point out that it is from, so many of these problems in Slovenia that have occurred. Firefighting is a public service of this country or of the local community and of the country as a whole, the state must have it, the local community must have it, with an order there are peeded units, equipment, everything - there is no funding. Nobody in this country uses 30-year-old means of transport for emergency driving, for first aid, even life-saving when there are fires, accidents and the like. No one in this country has to admit that. Then let us really pour pure wine once, and let us acknowledge that this branch has been neglected, as was the case with the left hand of a firejoy, so we like to say, or a fireman's solution. So let's really sit down for once. After this discussion, I expect the willingness of the Minister of Finance and his co-workers to sit together and then, if not, find a suitable second solution. So far, such attempts have failed. To defend it, yes, but I don't know if he brought it to the government meeting, that this amendment and that he supported it already on the First Defence Committee when we appointed it, or when we had that presentation, he supported it, and today he's here. If we don't support this today, I won't be too disappointed. I hope, therefore, that this second part will be an attempt to be able to sit together with the government or with the competent ministry and really resolve this issue. Low funding for three years, if not four, there is no co-financing in the country, but it was before. None! You can't get one tolar. On the contrary, what was in the budget last year in defence in the area of protection and rescue was used only 60%, on the basis of this plan this year. What do we get out of this on the ground? Nothing. That is why we had to trigger this problem in Parliament once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Is it possible, however, before we proceed, that the procedural proposal you have put forward, Mr Pukšič, for a change to your amendment. Do you want us to vote on him, give him a break or continue? If you wish to amend your amendment, we must not conclude the general debate in accordance with Article 193. Since you've already repeated your wish twice, I don't want to get the impression that I'm not allowing you to -- I mean, take a break for a change of amendment. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	I suggest you give us ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	For a change of amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	We're adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll continue at 4:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	At exactly the hour, I am supposed to determine the presence, but in fact I do not know who I am asking to draw 34 cards from the slots that have been inserted by Members and Members of the LDS Group. In any case, we'd find that we're not concluding and we'd cancel the meeting in 10 minutes, so I hope they join in a few minutes. I agree. But I don't want to keep you here needlessly: we continue on 16.25. And I'm gonna go ask my colleagues to join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We're picking up the presence! There are 64 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. I ask Mr. Puksich Procedurally? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! There's something weird going on this afternoon. First of all, Mr Moze prevented them from having a committee to oversee intelligence services, even though the conditions were given. Now the parliamentary group has unannounced obstruction for half an hour. I don't know what's behind this. In intelligence, I believe that there is a conflict of control over intelligence services or that it is not desirable. I do not know on this matter, so I ask that you give a reminder to the Group of Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Nor was this a procedural proposal. It would be nice, however, if the representative of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia apologized to the falcons because we really started late. I can agree with you on that. Mr. Mogue!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Dear President! What a colleague, Mr Jerovšek - not for the first time - has afforded to me goes beyond all the limits of decent conduct in Parliament and goes beyond the powers he has. He said it was me who prevented this afternoon from being a security and intelligence meeting. I must say, I don't have the authority you know. I have proposed this thing, and since I am alone from the Liberal Democracy Group there, the majority of Members have accepted this proposal because, I think, with regard to every lack of the President's sense of quality work for the Commission, I have called on the president to do this work at the time of lunch, which I do not resent, but with extremely important points and have already said at the beginning that we will not have to end this meeting. It seems to me that the use of the Presidential mandate is that what the Commissions are doing with the incomplete claims he has made here - and not for the first time in my account - what he is doing is worth all the condemnation. If there was anything in his pants, I'd ask him to apologize to me now, given what he said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. But at this point in the debate in this direction, I interrupt and continue where we ended earlier. Mr Pukšič, you have proposed that we end the general debate because we are supposed to amend our amendment. We got your co-proposal on the bench. Here you go. Explain it. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In accordance with the agreement and the letter you received on the bench, I withdraw the amendment to Article 1a under Order No 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The Group of Members also withdraws the amendments to A1 and to B1 because it seems to us that there is more interest in the country than this partial interest, and we will all vote in favour of Mr Ferri Horvat's decision. And we believe that the Government will take into account these intentions, which have been presented in additions, once it has tabled its draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please choose your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. We withdraw the amendment to the A1 Article under order number 3, and we support Mr. Pohorc's amendment under order number 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I am also withdrawing the amendment concerning the tax relief relating to donations. However, at the same time, I predict that I will support the Ferio Horvat decision, because if this issue is not resolved in a short time, it will happen that simple donations to the Foundation will not be for this fund and the Foundation will itself be a scaffolding in other countries, which do not tax on these services and for the acquisition of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 4, which I have tabled, and will support the proposal for a decision made by Mr Ferri Horvat. Well, there's something else I'd like to tell you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	Mr. Gasparini, can you tell me again because you had paper in front of the microphone? You're withdrawing the amendment? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	Article 4, number 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	There's something else I'd like to say. Looks like everyone here is a volunteer firefighter because you're so committed to it. Perhaps Mr. Pukšič is a commander or commander or commander of the brigade, I don't know what. I would like to remind you that Nova Slovenija has made a proposal for children's clothing. And if you remember, Mr Pukšič - I am just telling you - Mrs Zbaščičnikov, when we adopted this law, there were the most discussions about children's clothing, footwear and so on. Of course, all the amendments we tabled were to lower the allowance. And now I'd like to ask you nicely whether firefighters or children's clothes are more important? I don't think it's me, so, so, Mr. Petan, think about it! [[...]] It's just your group that's so taken care of by these firefighters that they have, I mean, they're also equipped, I think, with dignity. But for the kids: no. I myself will support the New Slovenia proposal, because the government, as promised to me, has here the government's response to Article 4, where this amendment supports somewhere, but now I say, "we will do so in the novelty of the law". And I would like to say to the government that, in the second quarter of this year, it will propose a new law on value added. That's why I'm withdrawing my amendment. But I expect the government to do it for real.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar, Mr Pukšič, Mr Sušnik, has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. My replica is a replica to all those who have just reasoned and tabled the amendments. Once again, I propose that, like our colleagues from this parliamentary group, the amendments should be withdrawn so that the other colleagues can withdraw the amendments. In fact, the withdrawal of the amendments that Mogo and the others have already said is not because they would have found that these amendments are wrong. The idea, of course, is true and remains, as is yours, if I am now turning to the side where the amendments are still. That's not what this is about. It is simply that we want what is proposed by our colleague Horvath, to be thoroughly regulated, as we have already said today. We are not against these content, but we do not want to, at least I can talk about myself, at this point in time, define some bit of incomplete content. That is why the amendments have been withdrawn and, therefore, I propose that the permanent amendments be withdrawn and that the decision proposed by my colleague Horvat be adopted, and we are assured from the government that it will go into a proposal that we will then discuss very thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Mr. Gasparini, thank you very much for your warning. At that time, I was really thinking about what we're more about or what we're about or what we're about to wear or what we're about to do. You know, Mr Gasparini, all of this and much more in this country could be significantly better if only the allocation of funds, which has been slightly different and slightly more equitablely distributed. That it is so divided is not the fault of the opposition, but of course the position that does it. If, with respect to Mr Gasparini, taxes were collected, those to be collected would be sufficient for a child's clothing, for voluntary firefighting companies, it would be enough for a universal child's allowance, it would be enough for the law on parenting and, of course, it would be enough for a lot more if, in addition to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we had a parallel, which is also so heavy, or probably more, through various funds and so on, such as the state budget. That's the problem, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	Madam Vice President! I would like to replicate the statement made by Dr. Gasparini, who said that our fire companies are decently equipped. This may be true of certain environments. I submit, however, that numerous fire companies, mainly in rural areas, are equipped in demographic areas with museum techniques, museum equipment and also with revered old intervention vehicles. In support of what Mr Pohorec has already said that the purchase of this equipment has not been financed from state resources for three years now, let me say that in municipalities, from the 3% of the appropriate spending that we are legally obliged to give to firefighting is allocated to the purchase of new firefighting equipment by about 30% of the purchase value. Everything else is a matter of donations, grants, various botorships, and that is where the taxation of this money is also at stake. We must not forget, however, that firefighters were the only composition of civil protection, both in the floods in 1990 and in 1994, and that the situation in this area is extremely acute under the new Fire Act and under the new Fire Protection Act. Let me remind you that the presidents of the fire companies sign each year a contract with the local community to carry out this important public service, and they also sign and, above all, with a bitter taste, how they will be able to carry out this service in accordance with the law. Look. One more thing is happening, which I think is worth all the criticism and all the attention. Firefighters, who face such difficulties in purchasing and replacing the equipment they need, also resort to such extreme actions as taking over written-off equipment from the European Community countries, in particular Germany, 20 years old intervention and fire vehicles, which, under the law there, must land in the garages of our firefighting companies. And more importantly, I hope to say that in the last period, human casualties have also occurred due to the weariness of the equipment. I know at least one fatal accident, and I know it, which has also happened, and mainly because of the use of museum exhibits for the purposes of firefighting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	During the debate, it was found that we were actually in breach of the rules of procedure, as the matter was not ripe for a rapid procedure. Secondly, it was found that, in fact, it was the protection of the state budget, the provision of funds, not only as it had been in previous months, to freeze salaries and pensions, but also to freeze the debt of those assets which the State owed to the economy, which we think, and was immediately highlighted, the small economy, craftsmen. Thirdly, it has been found that there are far more important problems in this law, which call for a much faster and more thorough approach, namely the hypocrisy of the state, which may be reflected here in the case of a fire truck. Just an example. If citizens want to buy a 25 million-dollar fire truck from their contributions, they must not only separate the income from the state, but also pay the country 5 million. Is that fair? I think that's something that's incomprehensible in this country, that's something that needs to be changed, that's what you all find. You also withdraw amendments with regard to education or science, culture, humanitarian organizations, and we all find that something is wrong in this law and that it needs to be thoroughly changed. We demand that the government prepare this proposal by June, even by May. I think that if we stick to the withdrawals of these amendments, I expect Mr. Pucko to withdraw the proposal from the procedure, and we will instruct the government to prepare an integrated proposal by the end of May.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. However, Mr Drobnič, the obvious that - Mr Tsukjat, I apologize, Mr Drobnič then has the word - the obvious fact that the National Assembly is not being considered in accordance with the rules of procedure of this law - was not in place because the swift procedure of this same State assembly on the agenda was adopted. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. That's exactly what I was going to suggest. In view of the way in which the law has been tabled, and in view of all these amendments which have appeared in the procedure, given the content of how this is regulated, and in spite of Mr Puck's amendments to the key article, this law is not suitable for consideration. I would therefore strongly recommend that he withdraw the law from the procedure. Of course, it's his sovereign decision. But given all this, I see we're wasting time, we're not going to move and we're not going to do anything. Evidently, this bad luck has stuck to this law from the very beginning, since the contents have been inserted, but it has completely changed since the basic text.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	I apologize, Mr Drobnic, for this moment we have only one more amendment to the new A1 article and the discussions on all other directions at this stage, when we are discussing this amendment, are not in place. Therefore, I remind you that, please, stick to these points, this is the debate on the second amendment for the new A1 article of the three proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	Excuse me, Madam President, I must say that all of this falls within the framework of the hearing. I've made my point, and he'll make his decision. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I think a few things need to be put in place. What Mr Gasparini has enjoyed, I think it goes beyond the limits of good taste. I'll try to give him a slightly more appropriate response to what he said. He said what was now more, or fire trucks, or what had already been said, or clothes for children. I would like to remind him that he should try to remember if he was not at the meeting when we discussed the tax value added, when we accepted him, if he did not listen - let him look at the notes! - that we Social Democrats have proposed not only for children's clothing but also for children's food, but something else about children. I'm going to - I hope that this is all on the network - I brought it to you myself, so you can look at it, and the next time you don't spend it, I'm going to say, hypocritical things, because it really hurt me. Because now I'm really waiting for you to ask in three months if this amendment on fire is going to be rejected, but why didn't you suggest anything for firefighters? That's what I expect after what you said. This I really think is not part of Parliament, and I must tell you, Mr Gasparini, with all due respect, I have had a lot of respect for you, even now I have it, but after all, you have really disappointed me with this way of speaking. At first, you rejected the proposal we had, and now you're telling us why we didn't propose it. We proposed, Mr. Gasparini. That's the first one. Second. We're only talking here about one more amendment that's left. How hard this is going to be, I don't know at this point because I'm not proposing an amendment. However, I am sure that the weight, financial weight of this amendment, what will then bring, in practice, is substantially or several times smaller than what is heavier or what is the number of unpaid taxes we now have. Because we have not collected taxes, this amendment to this law has also been made. We have heard this before today, and to those who have made this clear, I must give them recognition. Really. Some are still deceiving us that this will not mean any savings or affect taxpayers. And it'll mean it. Those who had so much money to admit it, I'll give them credit. Which ones they were, they know exactly. The problem is the levels of these tax rates, but the problem is in uncollected taxes, and due to the uncollected taxes we have to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	Mr. Petan, please stick to the forecast point - this is a debate on the second amendment and not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	We will change the law again, and I will, of course, support this amendment. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, the replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you. Just for a little while. I don't think we understand each other, Mr. Petan. I just wanted to say that Nova Slovenija has taken the other way to make some changes. That's how I pulled my own to come to another path to get these changes, and I suggest we do the same for firefighters. I'm not against firefighters. But we can't save firefighters like that, I don't know, leave the kids, leave the kids, leave the third one, the fourth one, and we'll be five, six amendments, everybody wants a tax. That's the point of the problem. That's the joke of the problem or the abolition of VAT - but we can't do that. Then let's wait another two months for the government to propose to you both firefighters and children, and I don't know who to propose to, and then we'll debate. That's what I wanted. I'm saying it again. New Slovenia has taken the path to examine this proposal, the proposal concludes that this will be settled. That's wrong. Dr. Sugar is right, there's a lot of things wrong with this marriage, but you have to take it once. The purpose of this law, however, is elsewhere. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Petan, Replica and Mr Pukšič, however, I ask that it only explain to Mr Gasparini what he has been doing at this time. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief, and I'm not going to replicate anymore. I agree with you a lot of things. That's right. Some of the things you just set me up, I didn't even say. So let's put that aside. But I don't think it's appropriate to tell us something right now that things are messy. Yes, they are. But we suggested that you take care of them. Therefore, it is not you who have opposed this that we now acknowledge that they are disorderly. We know. We are also discussing this today that they are disorderly. We'd just like to point that out today, and then we're all that, and it's all been rejected. Today, we've been trying with one segment to sort this thing out. I hope we'll be able to, because it's a smaller segment, but a smaller financial weight that might go through today. In this context, I wanted to say this to you, and I hope that we have now come to terms with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, a replica of Mr. Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	Mr Gasparini, if this was an invitation to Mr Puck to withdraw this bill, it is acceptable for me, as several Members have said before, if that is so. But if that's not it, then unfortunately, otherwise, it's true, many times in our house, the one who shows up on the thief will take hold of him, and the thief won't. And in that case, it's the same thing. It's true, Mr. Gasparini, a lot of things need to be done. That's right. You know that, too. Also, I don't know, for so many years and so many years, this ministry is in your hands. These things could have been settled by now. But if you knew that in two months you'd be changing something again, there's no need for this to happen today. Look, it was clearly said, it's 1.1 billion assets that can stay in the state's accounts for a long time and come back later. Yeah. Those who intend to support this if you also support that will [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] administration and one and the other. [[...]] Okay. Only 200 such high-ranking civil servants [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Mr. Puksich, I'm sorry. This is not a replica of the performance of Mr Gasparini. I remind you, however, that if you replicate, you have three more minutes to replicate what you have not understood in the implementation of Mr Gasparini. That's what the replica is about. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	The level of Members of the Liberal Democracy is today and is always the same as the level of public finances. That's why we're where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall! If no one else wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. From the amendments to the new a1 article, we have only been left with an amendment under order number 2, as amended, to the extent of co-proposal as co-proposal to the group of Members, with the first-signed Valentin Pohorce, Marko Diaca and Mr Franz Pukšič also joined. We are voting on this amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 34. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the amendment to the new A1 article has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new C1 article, whose proposal is a group of Members with a first-signed Davorin Terčon. Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	Withdrawal, on behalf of the motioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	The amendment's been withdrawn. That is why we are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 1, which is where the two amendments are tabled. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Government supports the amendment. However, the amendment refers to the proposed text of the third amendment or to the proposed text of the new paragraph 5 of Article 36. There is an amendment under 2 whose proposer is mag. Janez Drobnič, and refers to the proposed text of the amendment to Article 36, paragraph 4. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 39 to 19. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 18 to 30. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 11. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the two amendments to Article 4. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Government supports the amendment. The second amendment is proposed by Christmas Ivan, the government and the mother’s working body. Mr. Christmas, here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the amendment under point two.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The amendment under two has been withdrawn, so I am putting an amendment under one into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 7. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 4a, which is proposed by Vila Trophynik and Cyril Pucko. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 13. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the amendment to the new Article 4a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the three amendments to Article 5, namely, the first amendment is proposed by the SLS + SKD Group, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points two and three are irrelevant; the amendment's amendment under two is proposed by Cyril Pucko, the amendment's government supports, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment is irrelevant; the amendment under three is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; the amendment is supported by the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we decide on the amendment under one. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry. Mr. Pucko, explanation of voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this amendment, because if this amendment were to be adopted, any amendment or addition to the bill is irrelevant. I therefore call on you to vote against the amendment under number one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain my voice myself. Just what we discussed, the problem of solutions, is set out in Article 5 - 5, so to speak. New Slovenia supports the people's proposal to delete this article and therefore we get a normal law, not one that is constitutionally controversial and unfair to individual taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 18. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the amendment under number 2 has been adopted, which means that the amendment under number 3 has become irrelevant. The article has been completely amended and we will not vote on it. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and the amendment, which is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 17. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. Excuse me! Looks like the device didn't get it. We are re-voting the whole article. There are 67 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 17. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 15. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 4, 4a, 5 and 6 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	I inform you that we will table an amendment to Article 1a.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u174	Mr. Puksich, that's all. 1.a Article 1a is not open. Article 1 shall be opened.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u175	To Article 1(1).
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u176	Mr. Puksich, just for an explanation. Article 1 has a completely different content. If you would like to make the same amendment in the same content again, this is not possible because Article 1a was not adopted. However, the drafter only opened Article 1. I ask once again, according to the explanation given, Mr. Pukšič, do you insist? You don't insist. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the whole law? [[No, no, ……]] On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry. I missed it. Mr. Puksic wants to explain his voice. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u177	I will not support the law for these reasons. Of course, this law is not and will not be passed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly states what emergency situations are and when it is necessary, or when it is possible, to bring the law into action quickly. Another time. I'm going to say what you interrupted me earlier, which is another reason why I won't support him. To change, to change such a system law because of one thousand or less than one thousand dollars in the state budget means about the same as to go, I don't know what to change in terms of their personal income to turn one thousand into a positive. Or would you say he's not in reserve for this thousand, but it's not about the means at all, but it's just about turning that thousand. This means one billion or 400 tolars of one of the Member's salaries.This is not acceptable, this is not dignified and this is not serious from this national assembly. However, all those colleagues who will support this law, of course, I expect them to also propose in the Anti-Burocratic Programme that they receive their own personal income 2 times a year, that is every 6 months, and of course will be significantly less necessary for the accounting of monthly personal income. They should also be joined by the government's proponents, at least by those who, of course, supported this or the entire government coming out of it. This is about 200 high-paid government officials, 200 paid government officials, on a net salary of about 0.5 times 6 months, we come to the same effect. This is a fact of why we are amending legislation in this National Assembly. Yeah, well, this time we've really turned out to be big enough incompetence, incompetence, and obviously we're right before this country's total financial collapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote again, we are moving again to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 39 to 24. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Three additional proposals for decisions have also been tabled in relation to this Act. You got 'em on the bench. The proposal for the first additional proposal for a decision is Feri Horvat, and the proposal for a second proposal is mag. Andrej Vizjak and Mrs Majda Zupan for the Nova Slovenija Group. First of all, I am putting to the debate an additional proposal for a decision by Mr Ferri Horvat. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 55 to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the additional proposal for a decision by Mr Ferri Horvat has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on an additional proposal for a magi decision. Andrea Vissiak. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vizjak, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you. I'd just like to explain, because it's already a very clear matter, but I would still explain it. I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia propose to the Government that in the new proposal, this is said in a paper prepared and to be submitted to the National Assembly, examine the possibility of reducing or exempting the tax rate for firefighting, protection and rescue equipment and, of course, motor vehicles for voluntary firefighting. The decision is in the context of the debate held in this national assembly and also in the context of the preliminary decision already adopted. Therefore, I think it is right for the Government to make clear whether the exemption or reduction of the tax rate would be in accordance with the European Union directives or whether they would also be in line with the context of our tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Not]] We are moving on to a decision: I am putting to the vote an additional proposal for a decision of which the proposer is mag. Andrej Vizjak. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the proposed additional decision is the Magi's proposer. Andre Vissiak, accepted. We are moving on to a discussion on an additional proposal for a New Slovenia Group decision, first signed by Mrs Majda Zupan. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Since today's debate on this law, which we are really adopting in an unusual way, has been followed by a rapid procedure, several proposals regarding the examination of the justification of value added tax or at least reductions, and since the only proposal remaining in the amendment form has not been adopted, we have proposed in the New Slovenia Group that the Government also examine the proposal for the suspension or reduction of the value added tax for children's clothing, footwear and children's food. As I heard earlier in the debate, this proposal was drafted in the National Assembly three years ago. I hope that this time the government will have more obedience to the proposal for a new law and will take these proposals into account, as well as that those who previously opposed the amendment on exemption from the tax on the purchase of firefighting equipment will now support this decision, as Mr Gasparini had previously announced in his debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u183	Dear Members! This proposal, of course, contains a commitment. In line with what has been voted on before, the proposal by the Member, Mr Visionak, the Government also supports the previous proposal, which has already been voted on so far as to examine all matters. However, this proposal obliges the government to reduce automatically in the proposed novel. The government can't accept that. The Government therefore proposes or promises that all matters, including those proposed today in the general debate, will be examined in a comprehensive manner. It means that, for the first time, from the point of view of our law, secondly, from the point of view of alignment with the European acquis in this area and, for the third time, from the point of view of pragmatic solutions. Therefore, we cannot accept this obligation in any way, as stated here, to lower tax rates. By the way, she gives food, whether it's for the baby or for the adult, anyway, at a reduced rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on an additional proposal for a New Slovenia Group decision. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 27. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that an additional proposal for a New Slovenia Group decision has not been adopted. I have also just received a proposal for an additional decision, proposed by Franz Pukšič, in the following context: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the resources of the Ministry of Defence, to explore the possibility of additional funding for the purchase of fire-fighting and rescue equipment of 19% of the envisaged purchase of equipment used by fire-fighting organisations to carry out the public fire-fighting service." Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for an additional decision? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Of course, within the framework of this law and in the context of today's debate and also in the context of today's debate, I will make recommendations or information from the Ministry of Finance, which has spoken of the possibility of collecting, on the one hand, the duty being collected and that it is possible, therefore, to replace or recover, in the "output" on the other hand, clearly, in the other legislation, not in the VAT law. Such a debate was also approved by Mr Brenčič and by the Ministry of Finance. But, of course, this option, this appeal to the government, that - well, does not bind her, but gives her the opportunity to do so. I hope that the Ministry, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance do not oppose this proposal and that they will declare themselves in favour of this proposal and hope that the proposal will be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u187	This proposal made by Mr Puksič does not, of course, contradict. This is the only systemic solution, i.e. in the "output", if, of course, funds are provided from the field, then this is possible. Certainly not from the point of view of VAT. So there is no way I can oppose it, because of course the proposal is aimed elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u189	I understand, of course, the Secretary of State, but does this mean that the Ministry of Finance will not object to an increase in funds on these items? Otherwise, this is a parliamentary fraud in decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u191	I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Concan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u193	Mr Pukšič's proposal said that the government should have examined if I had correctly understood this proposal, which had been read, because I did not get it on the bench. Therefore, to examine the possibility that in the "output" it is in terms of budgetary financing, funds of 19% are provided. So it is possible to consider, I cannot continue to say that there are no such means, so that we absolutely continue to oppose. This is always an option and within the items on this segment it is also possible to examine and see if there are solutions. This is not a commitment, as it was before when we strictly stated that we cannot accept the obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision, which is proposed by Mr Franz Puksic. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 29 to 14. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed additional decision by Mr Franz Puksic has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their cooperation and also the representative of the Secretariat. But we're moving on to 31. Agenda item - Defence draft law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Slovenian railways D. D. From loans hired to finance long-term works of construction and maintenance of the track fund of the Slovenian public railway infrastructure, a rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative of the government. You want a word? Dr. Slavko Hangel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport. Here you go! You can go to the pay phone, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As you know, public railway infrastructure under the state-owned railway law is said to be the Republic of Slovenia, which also provides the necessary financial resources, both for maintenance and for new construction. In view of the restrictions in the inflows assessed in 2001, the government proposed that Slovenian railways amounting to 6 billion be in debt for maintenance and part of investment in 2001. In order to be able to do so, a proposal for a State guarantee law to rent this loan was also submitted to the National Assembly. This means, in fact, that, due to the lack of inflows in the 2001 budget, Slovenian Railways would rent a loan in this year that would have a moratorium on repayment of three years and would have to be repaid within eight years of the standard conditions, such as those provided by the domestic banks in which this loan would be leased. The credit would be used to a large extent for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure, a smaller part, approximately 900 million tolars, as well as for the necessary investments and for the production of project documentation. In view of the needs in this area, which are closely linked to railway safety, the Government has proposed this law in a rapid procedure. We would ask that you take into account, in addition to the opinion of the Rapporteur on the published text of the law, the amendments prepared by the Government, in the light of the comments made at the hearing of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Andrey Gerencher, chairman of the committee, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. At its two meetings, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee considered a proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Slovenian Railways, a share company, on loans hired to finance certain parts of the construction and maintenance of a railway track fund of the Slovenian public infrastructure. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the intention of the law to allocate more resources for rail infrastructure, for its quality maintenance and for updating. On the other hand, many comments were made on the non-transparent scope and purpose of these funds vis-à-vis the draft budget in 2001. For these reasons, we have adopted two conclusions at the first meeting. The first decision was: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment supports the processing and adoption of the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a rapid procedure. Second conclusion: The Committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the comments made at the Committee's meeting and the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Parliament for Law and Legal Affairs and to prepare appropriate amendments. At second reading, on 27.3., the Ministry of Transport forwarded to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee an annual plan for the construction, modernisation and maintenance of public rail infrastructure for 2001, which is already in the government procedure. The annual plan is 16.317,000 and of this 6 million is to be secured by a guarantee law. On the same day, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee received a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for four amendments, which were based on comments by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and comments from the debate. The Committee defined itself until the amendment of the Government as follows. He supported the amendment number one, two, three and four by putting his amendment on the fourth amendment. The Committee did not define itself until the amendment of the Group of Members, with the first signed by Shirca Majdo to Article 2 of this Act. The Committee therefore adopted an amendment to the Government's amendment, which would read: "The financial obligations set out in the preceding Article are met by the Republic of Slovenia by correcting the creditor's obligations in lieu of the debtor." If I can explain. This amendment is proposed because it is a simpler dictatorship. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision: the Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Railways, the Shareholder Company, on loans for the financing of certain parts of the construction and maintenance of the track fund of the Slovenian public railway infrastructure, together with an amendment drafted by the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Malovra, I apologize, on behalf of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. I am as a representative of the SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party, so it will be easier. Our parliamentary group will support this guarantee law, but we would like to draw attention to some of the things that have been going on in this National Assembly for the third time. The national programme for the construction of Slovenian railways was first discussed here in 1994 and then adopted in 1996. I remember well when we had a debate with the then President of the National Assembly, Mr Jožet Školč, about what is more necessary: whether it is more necessary to update the Slovenian Transport Cross, it is said, Sežana - Ljubljana - Maribor, or Jesenice - Ljubljana - Zidani Most - Zagreb, or the Sočki Corridor. I think there was a lot of tension back then. We used to go after each other for a pay phone. Today, however, we note that this national programme, which has been complemented several times, has been completed about 15%. This makes sense for the adoption of national authorities, which is not followed by the budget of the State of Slovenia. It also sets out the meaning of expectations and planning by individual companies, companies, to which national programmes relate. And, of course, in this case, the country's inequity to railway workers, whether they are railway operators or managers. As I said, the parliamentary group will support the law, because the railway law we passed here in 1999 at the end of 1999 obliges the state of Slovenia to take care of railway infrastructure. I also think that we will have to amend this law on rail transport in Article 34 into one of the following meetings. It is good to know and it is right to draw your attention to some of the issues concerning Slovenian railways and also the countries of Slovenia. Slovenian transit railways generate a large foreign exchange income to Slovenia. This way we sell electricity, or Slovenian energy, sell tows, and thus sell the workforce that works on the railway. Another point to be drawn in this regard is that if we do not invest enough money in the modernisation of Slovenian railways, both Italy and Austria, in view of the depreciation of Slovenian railways, are rapidly building and modernising the tracks. This so-called route, which runs from Trieste and then up at our border to Austria, and of course another route, which is being accelerated by the European Community, also with the funds of the European Community Vienna - Budapest - Sofia and then the Middle East. [[...]] We are signatories to this 5th and 10th corridor, which would also take place through our territory, and therefore we need to accelerate the construction of this route towards Hungary on one side - I hope that it will go into operation this year and that it will also be successfully exploited - and of course the second track from Divaca to Kopra, because, of course, Koper, who has connected now with Trieste, will begin to stagnate, which means also decay. The next point to be noted is the need for modernisation, particularly in passenger transport, for this so-called intercity transport, which is partly already under way in the modernisation of passenger trains, and in particular what we have committed to here in this national assembly in the adoption of the law on rail safety. It refers to safety in rail traffic - I am referring mainly to level crossings, to electro-relay signal-safety devices and, of course, to electricity, which relates mainly to the use of domestic energy. Well, on behalf of the parliamentary group and also on behalf of yourself, I am asking you somehow to support this guarantee law. Well, here I can show you how many we have adopted since 1993 and 1994 legislation in this area - not much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please. As long as Mr Sok joins us, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues because I usually rename someone for the last half-hour due to lack of concentration. I apologize to you all in advance. It's not malicious. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I will place some concerns on this law. First of all, is it possible for the National Assembly to adopt such guarantee laws before we have adopted a budget or before we passed a budget implementation law that would specify at all the amount to which the State of Slovenia will be liable on the basis of the guarantees given. So, we would also like to ask the responsible answer so that we can then continue to make the right decision. On the other hand, I would like to say that the system of borrowing public enterprises by aid or through guarantees from the State of Slovenia seems inadequate and, in our view, in this way, the state debt of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing inadequately and untransparently. I think that when the government adopts this year's budget to this National Assembly, and, of course, especially to Slovenia and Slovenia, it will pour pure wine and tell them what the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia is at the moment. We, it seems to us in our party, are in uncontrolled debt, and this public debt of the country of Slovenia is no longer as it is said that we are a middle-aged country, but we claim that we are becoming a very indebted country. This was also pointed out by the former governor of the National Bank. We are confident that the government should find a more appropriate source of funding for the construction of the track fund and propose a more appropriate source of funding to this national assembly, a systemic source from which Slovenian railways, as a public undertaking owned by the State and by the infrastructure owned by the State, would know by what means they can plan what will work in a given year or should find a systemic resource to implement the railway construction programme adopted at national level in the National Assembly. At this point, we are aware that this programme is lagging behind, that Slovenia in this area of the programme does not follow that this programme has already experienced a rebalancing and will continue to experience rebalancies, and that is why this is the way Slovenia would say more fire-extinguishing, we oppose. See, this law owes us 6 billion Slovenian tolars whose payment will fall in 2004. Thus, we owe ourselves for a period where we will have another government in Slovenia, another period. And interest by that time will increase by 4.5 billion, so that debt will increase to 10.5 billion by then. Once again, I say that in our parliamentary group such a method of borrowing seems inadequate and we will propose, by the end of this law, a decision by which we would commit the Government to submit to this national council a systemic solution to finance the construction of Slovenian railways. The law as such will not be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it on behalf of the groups of Members, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has signed up to the floor in writing, I limit the debate to 5 minutes. Mr. Ivan Mamić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Committee said that the Committee agreed. I've both said I don't agree, but the Priors reject it for a reason. So we're going to owe 6 billion dollars to return, as we've heard before, 10 or so. And of this, it's only going to take two ramps to make that "cost" 75 million. Everything else is for maintenance, for the wages of those people who work there - I know that people have to live off something, it's clear to me, but that the state has to take charge of that kind of money! For example, it is not an account that 450 million are just plans, not plans, implementation plans, which are the "gro" of design work, only some rehabilitations that already exist in the plan - according to those plans already to be repaired, so there is no need to work on this new plan - but only for this second track from Kopra to Divaca is there an idea plan, say, from that money. But I've said it twice, I'll do it again: 450 million. That's 450 thousand tolars - a thousand wages. Can you imagine that? Although I have received some half of the answers to these questions on the committees here, I still do not agree with them. Where the rest of the "soldiers" are going, sorry God, I didn't get the analysis to judge it to be so. And that's why I'm absolutely against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will support the marriage for the reasons my two predecessors have stated: we do not have a system source, unfortunately. And this is the only way, unfortunately, to at least partially satisfy the needs of our track fund just to be preserved in life and, of course, to follow the implementation of the plan. But it's true that we're late and it's worrying. It is true that there will have to be other sources, and unfortunately there are no answers that will allow the construction of the second rail track, but I would say no more Koper - Wilderness, given that there is a different route or fast track, we will start talking about the second track of Koper-Black Cal. Because the rest, of course, will be financed internationally. And, of course, this is all right for us because it is a substantial smaller investment, and yet an important investment. And yet I would call on the government to hurry not only by planning but also by searching for and determining the resources of this project, because, as colleague Malodrug correctly warned, the port of Koper is connected to the port of marketing, performing an important container terminal and doing so successfully. But this means that if we do not have the appropriate railways in due course, which will separate all traffic from Kopra, of course, the interest of the commissioners in the use of services in ports, can be diverted significantly more to the marketing terminal and less to the korska terminal. So this is a business challenge, which is important, but it imposes so much more on us the duty to speed up this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić is a replica, it's a replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u207	I don't like to replicate people at all. But with this - I fully agree, as Mr Yuri says, that this is all necessary and that we must hurry, etc. I agree, absolutely. But with this money, we're not going to make a single meter of railroad, because it's not meant to make any of this happen. Then let's get some backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading - a debate and a decision on individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 30.3.2001. In order to discuss and decide, I am giving Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 3. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the new Article 1a, the drafter of which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. An explanation of the voice? I interrupt the vote, Mr Puksic has an explanation of vote. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u209	Before voting, Madam President, it would be very correct for us to really check how many of us are in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u210	Mr. Pukšič, I think that was justifiable. Unwarranted interruption of voting because the hall is almost full. I'm almost certain that the question of congeniality is not in place at this time. I re-vote the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a new Article 1a. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 1a have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 and on the three amendments to this Article, namely: the drafter of the first amendment, this is the amendment to the Government's amendment, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment; the proposer of the second amendment is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body; the proposer of the third amendment is the group of Members with the first signed Majdo Širca. Anybody want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the first amendment, this is the amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment to the Government's amendment under number one has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We're still moving on to the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 7. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 7. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. In the debate and decision-making I give Article 3 to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on Article 3 to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. In the debate, I am putting an amendment to the title of the law you have on sheet 4 of the amendment review. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the title of the law. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to the title of the law has been adopted and the title of the law has been completely amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1, 1a and 2 have been adopted for the second reading of the draft law. If Mr Gerencher, procedurally, wants qualified candidates to do this, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the LDS, the Joint List, the Slovenian People's Party and the SKD and DeSUS, I will table an amendment to the third reading. They're just sharing it on the bench, so we'd wait a minute for everyone to get it on the table, and then we'd explain it. Or if you'll let me just explain it. We may have accepted the amendment to the amendment committee. It was later found, at the level of the government or the Ministry of Finance, that the amendment to the amendment had not been corrected or was not in line with what has already been discussed today. Therefore, we propose an amendment to Article 2 which should read: "In the case of the remuneration of the guarantee referred to in the preceding Article, the means for fulfilling the guarantee obligations shall be provided from the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. The difference is in this... "I will read the explanation" -...in view of the fact that in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia it was not possible to provide sufficient resources to finance the construction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure, it is necessary that Slovenian railways themselves finance the outage of funds, by including powers with the State guarantee The reason for the provision of guarantees is that the state cannot act as a debtor in a credit relationship, as this would directly increase the budget deficit, which would not be in line with the budget which is currently under consideration in the National Assembly." So, it's an explanation and a better, proper dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I also ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. In accordance with what I asked at the beginning of the debate of our parliamentary group, I would ask the secretariat to answer us in fact, whether we can make a guarantee, to adopt such a law before the law on the implementation of the budget in the National Assembly is passed. There was no answer to that question, so I'm asking him again.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u214	Mrs. Tina Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u215	We believe that this is primarily a question that should be answered by the government, because it is probably also about the quota - the quota meeting provided for in the laws for the implementation of the budget for each year for guarantees. And that's actually a question, not a legal question. The funds are foreseen, their takeover, that is to say, how much is spent, but it is indeed a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you very much. So, I'm saying it again. The funds are foreseen, but the law has not yet been adopted. So, legally, I'm wondering if we can pass this law before we have any legal formal basis. Therefore, if the Secretariat does not know how to answer this, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to raise this issue with the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Hangel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. So look, the actual loan is leased by the public company Slovenske železnice, d.d. Therefore, in the procedure, the Government or the State, as the owner of the infrastructure, will be able to assume these obligations, and in the procedure of the National Assembly, the Government has proposed amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act. Amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, as long as this law - the proposal for a guarantee, the guarantee law - are approved, these obligations will be included, as are all others, in the previous commitments on modernisation and modernisation of the actual railway infrastructure included as an obligation of the State in this law. This law is expected to be discussed by the National Assembly in May or June of this year after the state budget has already been adopted. So I believe that there are no reservations here that we cannot accept and confirm this proposal of the guarantee law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate on the amendment tabled. As Mr Gerencher explained, there are four parliamentary groups - now I think you have an amendment to Article 2 in your third reading already on the table. Does anyone want to discuss this? Because it does not want to, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2 of which four members of the group are proposing. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 9. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 has been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the secretariats for legislation and legal matters if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. It's not. Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. I'm sorry, I interrupt the vote, the vote wants to explain Dr. Bayuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to know if the government can today ensure that, in the event that this will not be paid through railways, Slovenian railways, that it will actually be part of the quota and that this is foreseen in the quota itself, which is also currently before the national assembly - on debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u222	Dr. Bajuk, I apologize, I do not wish to be rude, but we are at a stage when we are no longer discussing the law and asking the government about the objectives and purposes and assurances, but we are in the stage of voting on the law in full, third reading, and now there is only the possibility that the Member can explain his vote. You want to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u223	Yes, I'd like to explain it. Thank you very much, Madam President. It's impossible to support it. This is said only to support this, provided that it is actually part of the debt quota as proposed in the draft budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Because no, we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. Once again, we are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. On the table, as far as possible in the context of the rapid procedure, I have received a proposal, an additional proposal for a decision, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, and I think that this moment is also shared on the bench. [[...]] But let me read it anyway. The additional proposal for a decision is as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a system-wide source of funding for the construction of the railway network for the construction of the track fund of the Slovenian public railway infrastructure, in accordance with the agreed plan for the construction of the railway network." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 21. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision by the New Slovenia Group has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since it's 6:00 p.m., I just want to inform the esteemed National Assembly that the Procedural Question? [[...]] Well, let's see, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues, but I think this is, I'll say, a question or take it as an initiative, but don't get angry right away, it's important. It's a matter we've been talking about. First, with all due respect for the holidays coming, on the other hand, with all due respect for the Republic of Slovenia, which we are working for in this Parliament, and thirdly, with all due respect for the good intentions, as far as I am concerned, of the work of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on Friday - today is Wednesday, so we have time to agree. On the agenda of this call by the National Assembly, we still have an even third page of the purified agenda and a half-fourth page. We have before us the convening of the 5th Regular Meeting of the National Assembly and the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I think you all agree - just the question is - you all agree that all these things are flooding us. That's why I'm interested, as well as in the public and the different opinions - I'm just interested! - Is the power, once again, with all due respect to the above, that the State Assembly on Friday morning could do anything else? Thank you very much. Just a question!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I think that the National Assembly is the body and the competent authority that will decide on your procedural proposal. That's all I think about. Tomorrow's another day, Thursday. If you'll excuse me, Mr Barovich, I very much agree with you. [[...]] If you want us to vote on this procedural proposal today, or if we vote on this proposal tomorrow, depending on how much we can do tomorrow, we may even be able to conclude the meeting tomorrow if we are moderate in our deliberations. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u227	Just let me say it. It was a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u228	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u229	There was no question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u230	Mr. Petty Officer, please. Dear colleagues! Allow us to listen to our colleagues, their initiatives and proposals. Just a minute before I give the notice, and we'll be done. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u231	Excuse me, Madam President. With all due respect for the holidays, I suggest we finish tomorrow at 4:00. As you know, there are certain things going on every evening that certain Members would like to attend. We know it's a holiday. All of Europe is doing it somehow. In particular, they even go on vacation. I think it would be good if we finished tomorrow at 4: 00 p.m. to ensure that people are properly prepared. Maybe there's this to explain. We had these holidays, and we sat on school vacations, and we couldn't be with our families. Now it would be good if at least these two days, at least for the evening, we could have it sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-11-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. These were initiatives. The National Assembly is the decision-making body. It is undeniable, however, that tomorrow the National Assembly, following a decision by the College and the decision of all representatives of the parliamentary groups, will be working until 6 p.m. On the proposal, as soon as tomorrow it will be procedural, and given how successful we will be tomorrow - I actually hope that tomorrow we can make a lot of agenda points. Allow me just to inform you that the National Assembly will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. by discussing the 28th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and work of ministries. He will then come to the hearing of the school law package, which is paragraphs 32, 33 and 34, as it was concluded at the College of the National Assembly, and then in the order in which he will decide the national assembly. Thank you so much for your cooperation and good night!
