ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, guests. I begin the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 51 and Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following MPs and Members: Fari Horvat, Janez Janša, Maximilian Lavrinc, Tsvetka Zalokar-Orazem, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Dr. Jože Bernik. Let's find out if there's a presence in the hall, so please put the cards in! [[70 present.]] That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, Minister of Economy candidate Dr. Teo Petrin, candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Lucio Čok, candidate for Minister of Transport of Mr. Jakob Presečnik, candidate for Minister of Information Society Dr. Paul Gantar and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. Before we move on to the day-to-day, I should like to apologize for this delay, which has taken place in the wake of the promising agreement between Members and Members of all parliamentary groups, in order to finally address the issues of the design and management of working bodies. This agreement has been concluded, unfortunately, not enough time for us to make the necessary decisions by today's meeting, which will be done by the next meeting at the end of January. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 9 January 2001. The draft agenda will be followed by a decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a proposal to withdraw each item from the agenda. I didn't get any withdrawals. Anybody want a word on this? I guess not. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. I didn't get a proposal. Anybody want a word? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt a short-term act. Mr Rupar presented a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and proposed that it should be adopted in a simplified manner. The home working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that act by means of a reduced procedure. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to hear the mother-worker's word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Maybe the proposer wants me to ask you one more time. I guess not. Leaders of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the proposal. There are 77 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal for the adoption of a draft Rules of Procedure has been adopted following a reduced procedure. So I propose today's agenda session, as you received by reference. We are voting on the draft agenda. 79 Members and Members are present. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly adopted the draft agenda for the 4th extraordinary meeting. We're moving on to one. On the proposal of a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Day 23. 12. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia entered into force on the basis of which the Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Tei Petrin, Minister of Education and Sport, Dr. Lucija Čok, and Minister of Transport and Communications to Mr. Jakob Presečnik have ceased their ministerial functions, and in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia they carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of new ministers. The law also established a new Ministry of Information Society. Therefore, pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 8(1) of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed the following list of candidates and candidates for the appointment of ministers and ministers: Dr. Teo Petrin, Minister of Economy, Dr. Lucia Čok, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Mr. Jakob President, Minister of Transport and Dr. Paul Gantar, Minister of Information Society. You received the proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia by letter dated 15 January 2001. Does Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšek want to further explain the list of candidates? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased to welcome you this year for the first time in this beautiful and restored hall. I hope that you will work successfully in this Chamber and also devote some kind of moment to the government, in addition to, of course, the many critical ones that - normally - we expect. Today, therefore, there is a proposal for the appointment of four ministers or ministers. It is the completion of the work that we started at the very beginning of this new government's mandate, and also of this national assembly, when we wanted to reduce the number of resources and establish a new priority in the introduction of the new government law, the Ministry of Information Society. However, we were not able to do so in one step at the time, because there was a well-known initiative to collect signatures for the referendum which, according to the law, rejected this procedure or froze it for a good month. Obviously, there were not enough signatures, far from organising a referendum on this issue. That was to be expected. It is common in Western democracies that governments and government presidents have a relatively large margin of manoeuvre or flexibility in determining resources and also in distributing work within the government. It is even more rare that this is decided by Parliament with the law, as it is with us. To make a decision about this with a referendum, of course, this is really nowhere. So, after this delay, which has made our beginning, the beginning of the work of the government a little bit difficult, we are finally coming to the full law of the government, and so also to the proposal to appoint these four ministers. Three ministers, three have already worked in the government, this is the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Lucija Čok and Mr Jakob Preseknik as Minister for Transport. In fact, this is what we are adapting to today's new situation - the legal situation. The change that is actually coming is, therefore, also a performance by the Minister for the Information Society, who is today for the first time in the consideration of the National Assembly as a candidate, and also by the Ministry, the new Ministry, if you confirm Minister Paul Gantar, will begin to act as a new ministry. So, honourable Members, this is the proposal. I look forward to a positive hearing and a decision by the National Assembly, and thus to the conditions for a full-blown government to start its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with Article 263 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidates presented themselves to the home labourers and answered questions raised by committee members. It follows from the opinions of the home work bodies that the presentations of all candidates were appropriate. You have received opinions from the committees. Do the rapporteurs want a working-body word? I guess not. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Neither do I. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? A colleague of Micah Brace has been reported. Please, Comrade Miha Brejc, Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. I fear that today's word will not be kind, perhaps again; but what we have heard in these days, what we have been able to read about the proposals you are proposing, about their views, does not arouse special confidence in the Social Democratic Party. We have already expressed doubts about the credibility of the candidates for ministers and candidates at the election of the first part of your government, some of whom we have highlighted in particular in this regard, especially because they did not take place in previous ministries. I wouldn't repeat what I said the last time, but of course I don't mean that it doesn't apply. We still think what we said last time. I would limit myself in this speech on behalf of the Group of Members to just a few questions that I think are really worth the attention and which clearly show what the policy of liberal democracy and all those who support it is. If we take the Ministry of Economy, as it was designed after the new one, of course this will be significantly larger than it was before. Of course, we have no objection to the merger of the constituencies that belong together, but it is a matter of the right measure. And perhaps liberal democracy has also felt this, for we hear that it can also be wrong to exempt the energy sector from the Ministry of Economy and move it into the environment. Now let's leave it as logical as that makes sense. You will certainly respect the procedure if you do so, even though we are quite sure that this is not the case, because for the first time you have overrun the Rules of Procedure. But well, we expect such substantial substantive changes to be made in the field if they occur in order to be carried out in accordance with the prescribed procedure. Now that I have mentioned energy, let me say that our government, after finding that Slovenia lost around 100 million German marks for two years in a row, because the current power - the previous power - sold electricity at prices - so this surplus of energy - was 2.6 instead of 8 to 9 phenigus. In short, we have come up with an unknown measure, if we call it short-term contracts instead of long-term ones. Slovenia was clearly injured by the fact that it sold oversales instead of at a normal price three times cheaper. Whoever gained this is, of course, another question, perhaps also for the authorities involved. It is interesting that Mr Korošec, the former Director, objected to such a decision by the Government to sell market surpluses under long-term contracts, so that we also resolved him and placed Mr Türk in his place, who, at that time, has substantially corrected the energy balance in this financial sense as well. It is interesting, however, that today, if I am well informed, the government has solved Mr Türk for a false reason. So, if that is true, then I can only find that this resolution - today's resolution - of Mr Türk proves that in Slovenia the forces of corruption have won the greatest dimensions. In Manager and elsewhere we could have read that Mr Banic, former director of Elesa, will be involved in the Autocommerce Group in the sale of electricity. So we see the way things will go in the future. The new Drnovšk government even banned Eles from trading electricity, but when the market surpluses were created, there was now a lot of rain, and of course energy could be sold, it did not happen; even more than this, the thermal power plant Šostanj had to be stopped and 3 000 miners sent on vacation. Why is all this happening? One wonders whether this is possible or not, but obviously everything is going in this direction to privatise electricity distribution in the future, well, distribution and sales to privatise production; that is to say, power plants, which are all lost, would, of course, be saved by the state, i.e. taxpayers. We have already seen this model in some other economic systems in Slovenia and we are afraid that the new minister will also go this way. Corruption has also triggered a lot of public attention in Slovenia. Of course, the whole thing is in process, and at this point it's impossible to tell how it's going to happen. However, the fact is that during Dr Drnovska's eight-year reign, during Mrs Petrin's ministerial period, there were obviously some actions which, of course, led to the fact that, after these sources were available to us, there were, say, public sources of millions of German brands or, I don't know, some other currencies loaded abroad. The question raised here is, even if there is only one case of corruption and this financial dimension, such as that of the former State Secretary in the Ministry of the Economy, the question arises as to how it is possible to do so. Of course, an answer is offered on its own. Because, as we know, there are also two members of the SRD administration who have never done anything without asking their immediate boss, who was Mr Rob at the time. I have the impression that corruption has become a custom, not an exception, that it is part of the systemic conduct of liberal democracy and of course of all those who support it. Apparently, it wasn't limited to, say, Mr. Schultz. Something else, like interesting. Indeed, as an interest in the conduct of this government when the name of Mr Ropa appeared in the documents - the documentation concerning corruption - was personally informed by Mr Strolin, Head of the Money Laundering Office. This is, of course, contrary to the rules, the principles of action of government officials, professional ethics - the list is long. I'm sure Mr. Strolig won't be harmed. But this also points to the state of the spirit in the government and this state of the spirit of course changed greatly at the time you took over the exercise in your own hands. On this occasion, I also demand that the role of Mr Rob and other persons in the SRD and the Ministry of Economic Affairs be made public and that other institutions associated with them be added to him so that the public knows how and what. So a set of these issues, which now concerns this new wider ministry, is, of course, polycentric development. I remember well the electoral campaign, as well as the electoral campaign, in which, for example, the candidate Bandelj, who was not elected there, today the secretary-general spoke very clearly and decisively about polycentric development as something that liberal democracy supports; but, of course, the country is closing down, centralising, the processes of centralisation are continuing. I'm afraid they'll be in the future. Here too we expected a clearer word in the presentations. I'm sorry she wasn't here. The area headed by Mr Gantar is also an area that deserves attention, as it is the new Ministry of Information Society. By the time it was about the government law, we had our say. Well, now it's what it is, you just voted it out. So, in the Social Democratic Party, we think that Mr. Candidate has no professional references to this area. Even more than that; his references from the Ministry of the Environment - that is, when he was Minister of Environment and Space - show that he worked for the construction lobby rather than for the environment. So, we'd say, against the environment. That is why we can expect him to act in this new function against the interests of citizens and more for the information society, which will give profits to the owners in short, not so much to the citizens. In this context - this would not want to go back to not knowing where far in the past, but, in fact, by disrupting the project of return on past investments, it has already put forward the possibility of implementing the project in a way that would stimulate the beneficiaries for investment. We could certainly have obtained from 50 to 100 thousand new internet users, particularly in the out-of-town areas, in a rural area where this information standard is low, if we were to be sure. In cities this is easy, but as we know, all those who live below the threshold of poverty and in this environment, of course, cannot afford it. So people who live on the edge will also live on the edge in the future, and we haven't seen any smart suggestions here. There may be some changes, but - for now, please - we have not noticed that. In the field of high technologies, where information and communication technologies, of course, fall under, among other things, speed is very important. In fact, the speed of development is the characteristic of modern technologies. Even for domestic information infrastructure, we can say that industry needs to respond quickly to changes coming from the environment. We now find in the Social Democratic Party that the Minister's candidate has proved to be slow and ineffective in his current functions. Let's just remember the slow restoration of Soča and slowing down the construction of motorways, etc., not to mention all of this. What is supposed to be the concept of the Ministry of Information Society is in fact something vague, conceptually incomplete and, of course, also worthy of criticism on our part. The Ministry of Information Society should support all those areas that it supports in Europe - in the European Commission - I think - the Commissioner for Entrepreneurship and the Information Society. The European Commission, as you know, has nine Commissioners, six more than our government so far; which means that the work area of the Minister is very wide and it is very difficult to manage, surely. However, I think it also shows that it takes account of the European Union's recommendation to emphasise the convergence between audio-visual media and telecommunications, information technologies. The new ministry will be a relatively small segment for such a wide area. Compared, of course, to the Ministry of Economy, there will be something small, nonetheless. Now, the key theme will certainly be the telecommunications sector previously under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. As we can see, this makes one coalition partner very weak, but it's their problem, not ours. We do not deal with this, it does not bother us anything, but we do note that this proposal continues to lose the human party in this coalition life. It is interesting, however, that the strategy of liberal democracy in this area may be as we have seen it in many ways. Instead of some very clear, transparent privatisation mentioned by the candidate, that is, the Telekom Group, there could also be wild privatisation, as in a number of cases, by reducing the value of shares. Instead of real liberalisation of the telecommunications market among independent operators, there will be some fictitious competition between public and private companies, but everywhere with the workforce of liberal democracy. Liberal democracy will fully control not only the state part of telecommunications but also private companies in this area. Of course, talking about competition here is pointless. There could be, at least, some planned measures that would weaken Telekom's economic power and transform it into an investment service company, etc., into a "communal company", if I may say - in quotations. I think I need to mention one more thing that suggests that maybe the candidate isn't the happiest for this town. Indeed, Mr Gantar, as Minister of Environment and Space in his previous function - that is, instead of allowing faster construction of the network and the introduction of new services, which, of course, would also be appreciated - for example - the replacement of software on the telephone centre building permit. This is according to the applicable building law, which is, of course, absurd. Now, of course, we can now say that this is not true, but we do have this documentation and we were surprised that it was true that something like this was happening. I think that the new ministry's programme is mainly based on tasks that have already been prepared under one other framework on the professional side. These tasks could also have been accomplished in time if it were not for a very liberal democracy with obstruction to prevent the adoption of the telecommunications law - if I recall correctly, this was last year, August, something like this. With this we have some problems in relation to the European Union, because we are late and have been particularly alerted to this. That's it, let's talk about this case. I've only listed two. Only two, nothing more, could go forward, but it should be enough, already there are more than too many arguments, suggesting that the candidates in our opinion are not appropriate. If we add to all this the human resources clearances that are now being carried out by liberal democracy. You're writing the media now, of course, about reasonable substitutions about how projects have to go on, and things like that. You're very receptive to these personnel clearances, but you know, the exchange of state secretaries is one concept, undersecretaries, the secretary-generals are already harder, but you're changing it all. You're changing even the secretaries that served you before, and we didn't change them because we said it didn't make sense. You're even changing drivers that we haven't changed, and these are yours, and you solved them today, and they are - I don't know what, no. In short, they don't suit you anymore. To the coffee cups, I'd say, and the cutlery. In short, it's not just about personnel cleaning, but it's also about really general winter cleaning. That's kind of what the whole thing looks like. Well, that, you know, is still something you'll find difficult to explain later. I think that what you are doing now - we have foretold this, of course - is proof that in our criticism we were right, that we correctly predicted what you will do, and of course, that is why our critical words to liberal democracy and all those who support it. You know, respected colleagues from coalition parties, the responsibility for what will be, is inseparable, and it will be interesting to observe you after a while when you accuse each other of who is responsible for something. In short, the Social Democratic Party considers that the proposed four candidates also do not meet the conditions for the cities for which they are envisaged and will therefore not support these four candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Dr. Brace. I give the floor to Mr Janez Podobnik, SLS+SKD Group of Slovenian People's Party. And after him, I invite my colleague Peterlet and Diacia to the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u6	Dear fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, candidate and candidates for ministers! The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will act in accordance with the agreement of the four parliamentary parties that form the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate when proposing a list of candidates for appointment of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, it would probably be normal for me to now thank you for your attention and join my fellow Members in the bench. I will proceed with a subject called procedure. Anyone who is silent can sometimes say yes, and so I ask you to understand, but I promise I will be brief. At the college's meeting, and a little earlier, and especially at the college's meeting, a question was raised, which, interestingly, also to the Slovenian professional public, went very unnoticed and it was said: is it possible, in the light of the provisions of the Constitution and the legislation in question, that the minister ceases the ministerial function if, by amending or supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this change is formally and substantively. This is a question that I myself have put in my post as a member of my college. The President of the National Assembly addressed the Secretariat in writing, and today we have received an answer and a position on this issue. Thanks to the secretariat. The reply came in writing a few hours before the start of today’s extraordinary session. I managed to fly him through the grave myself. In addition, the question is also answered by the Secretariat as to whether the National Assembly should vote on the list of candidates and candidates for appointment as Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or individually on the proposed candidates. This question is answered very briefly and several more sheets of paper were needed on the second question. I firmly believe that this question is not as irrelevant as it seems. The key question to be asked is whether, in addition to the options provided by Article 115 of the Constitution, which speaks of when the functions of ministers of the government are terminated and only three options are mentioned: when a new national assembly meets after the elections, or with the discharge or resignation of the minister. Now we have introduced the fourth option - by enacting the law. Therefore, I think it is right to avoid that this practice would also become a legal practice and a rule to continue to address this issue here. I personally firmly believe that this legal interpretation is wrong. I'm pretty sure she's wrong! From the material prepared by the Secretariat, there is a clear justification and an argument for such a decision, and so on. We are able to inspect it, but this is only one of the possible legal interpretations of the fact that the Government Act, which entered into force on 22 December last year, unfortunately did not solve this issue and then, of course, the situation arises when a proper legal interpretation is sought. My performance is also intended to be recorded in the transcript, so that we do not get caught up in the near future, in a similar way, in trying to resolve the situation in which the Prime Minister was reluctantly present. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. In 1997, the National Assembly adopted a law that took away one very important segment of its operation from one of the important branches of the National Assembly under this Act, which did not follow through on this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Dr. Squirrel. You mentioned your request. As you said, the secretariat has responded to it and the Members and Members have the opinion of the secretariat before you on the bench. I give the floor to my colleague, Lojzet Peterlet, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and will be followed by Marko Diaci, a member of the Slovenian Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, honourable Prime Minister, ministers, candidates for ministers and distinguished colleagues. Mr Prime Minister has also recommended this path for us to be kind. I graciously commend everyone to be well behaved this year by the line, by the legislative, executive authorities, and to work successfully for the good of all. The second part of the kind act was a kind apology to all who are behind my back, I regret that this architecture is such that someone stays behind, but it is not my fault, and it will probably not be a bigger problem. Now, I would like to speak honestly and as kindly as possible with the criticism of what is going on after the elections and what is also happening with today's proposals for the election of new ministers. When I carefully read the opinions on the presentation of the candidates for the new ministers, I took at least one matter into account with pleasure; and this is that there is a great deal of truth in these presentations and in the answers to questions from Members and Members about how it is, and, of course, we also get a nice part of the answer to why it is so. I'll talk more about it. In the second part, I would like to talk about showing us what is happening in this coalition, in this government, that it is a continuation, a harmful continuation of the monopolization of Slovenian politics by introducing new or strengthening old monopolies. I'd be talking about some sort of "ocvirkast" feud. "Ocvirka" goes, of course, to LDS, with the most profitable and interesting industries, such as telecommunications, energy, and problems go to the SLS+SKD client of the Slovenian People's Party, which has the most difficult resources: agriculture, transport, justice - sectors where there are the most problems in society and where we also have many serious issues and problems to solve on the way to the European Union. If we go to look at things in areas, we will see that in the field of the so-called information society, because I am talking first about the Minister of the Information Society - so this is where one would expect the minister to say that the best thing is that we are the best in terms of Eastern and Central Europe. However, we read in the opinion when presenting the candidate that he spoke about the developmental lagging behind of particular areas, which is reflected in a relatively smaller rate of development of information and communication technology compared to other Central and Eastern European countries. And he said he was directing this state of state policy-making in this area. So at the time of such a presentation, one wonders what the LDS has been doing, which has had key positions in this area for all eight years, how we are suddenly for the Czech Republic, Hungary and others. Will it now be the same people, whether now the Minister for the Environment, who therefore would not like to speak professionally, say it is good that the ministers are a political person - whether this Minister will now push things forward, and I do not risk asking who is to blame for Slovenia's falling behind here. So far, we've read different reports, different assessments. Read government materials, and you will see what was written, how well we stand in the telecommunications field; of course, there is nothing to help us if the Internet has been going a little faster lately than in Germany and we have relative numbers that are fine. So the fact that the Minister himself spoke of developmental underdevelopment is alarming and, of course, all the analyses are worth it. Let's just go this way. Look what's going on, and let's just read the papers, hope they're credible. So, no, now, it is said, after so long as the three successive governments under the same President have not done what is expected and necessary in the field of telecommunications, so it is now said here that "the priorities of the Ministry are the preparation and adoption of a modified telecommunications law, the preparation of sub-legislative acts". So, what has been done before to prepare and modify the law? Isn't that LDS law in her pocket for a long time, and she was just waiting for the right moment? Of course, it is nice to control an area such as telecommunications through state levers, to retain privatisation, and now that it is due to commitments made by Slovenia itself, it is not: there are no proposals to increase the prices of services by 5% or 10% - I would say, okay - or 20% at the extreme or 50, if recorded; it goes up to 73% for some services! For a quarter, it says, 75% would almost raise the service! So let's pick up again, comrades, all the way up to earn a little bit more - I'm speaking in the first person of the crowd - and then we'll privatize when we earn some more. I can't explain it to myself. As if there were no such incentives that were so strongly justified, a little earlier in any previous term, but now just before urgent privatisation, they would have gone up to 73%. So, questions as much as you want. And the next thing I'd like to mention in this regard is the next thing. So one is a profoundly interesting developmental lag with a party of reason, as it is commonly called the coalition of reason. The other thing is monopolization and feudalization of power. The third thing I think the minister didn't say anything about, and I'm going to - and I haven't seen the word about control. If you remember the times when we were talking about the conspiracy against the invaders, there was also talk of a case where someone from a well - known service came to the right place and just ordered a phone number stamp to a telephone and it was also obtained by the witness. Look, ladies and gentlemen. Who will protect us from the possibility of abuse of one coalition, one party or one clan, so that they will not look at our brains through all the software tools that are possible to use this hardware to control you by contact, by the content of e-mails, etc. You're talking to people who stand up for this and they're going to tell you that the control function in this area is crucial. There was no mention of that in the presentation! All that matters is that this goes to LDS. Ladies and gentlemen, this will give us a terrible headache if we do not set up surveillance safeguards and prevent these feudalisations, which, after technical pay, allows for severe abuse and new absolute control of people. I must say on behalf of our client that we are afraid of these monopolizations and we are surprised that this "ocvirk" has been eliminated into a special ministry; debt, traffic problems, and roads of higher and lower ranks go to the coalition partner. But as has already been said, it is not our business, we are simply warning what it means. Enough with the telecommunications. Let's go to the economy for a while. Here, too, we read an interesting part of the truth. In fact, we have rarely read this before, but since the European Commission has clearly told us in its report how it is with the competitive capacity of our country and how it is taking into account the criteria applicable to the social market economy, I am not surprised, of course, that the recognition of Minister Petrinova or now the candidate for Minister for this department, which says "that despite the results achieved" - I read from the opinion on her presentation to the Committee on the Economy - "that it is necessary to realize that there are certain weaknesses which make the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy less than the competitive capacity of the European Union and also Hungary and the Czech Republic." Yesterday I heard that we are the first, that there is no better candidate, and we know that the competitive capacity of our economy is the key thing that we are going to get through with or not. A number of European partners are less interested in the competitiveness of the economy, because of course they know that this comes with a plus and this also covers the social needs, etc. So here, thank God, we read once by the ruling coalition or the LDS or her candidate for minister not to show us the best here. There are two countries in the world that are rated higher, as well as those with which we have said, here we are not talking about how Portugal and Greece are, for which we boast that we are with them somehow at the same level after national income per head. So these aren't here. I don't think we're skipping them in this area either. Next thing you know, I think we're still right about what we're missing. Then the same candidate also speaks of a technological gap. Ladies and gentlemen, read back the materials, how many words about everything for technology. In fact, I am speaking for that, and I will probably point out this again and again, that we are not talking about a client who had a government in power for six months or in hands, I am talking about a client who likes to say that she was leading foreign policy, leading financial policy - I quote these statements as much as you want. So, if she's running all this, she's responsible for all this, ladies and gentlemen, too! If we're going on the road. Look. The minister, facilitated by a brighter part of his ministry, said that we were facing problems or that we were already in them, that there would be insufficient means for highways, that perhaps a gas toll would go for some other need to be in trouble, in short. I would like to hear from him a project view of a solution to the untapped great possibilities. The great Slovenian resource is the Maribor airport, there is no idea about it, there is no proposal, but it is a great national theme. But we haven't heard anything, and we're going to be building after a carelessly remote construction of highway sections in Dolenjska. Look. There in Dolenjska we are now witnessing almost to renewed traffic from ancient times. It is true that some municipalities themselves have "wet" and have not arranged on their own the salaries of everything necessary for the routes and, on the other hand, some in Ljubljana have also extended matters and in short: there is now an unprepared country. But given the dynamics that we can expect at such and such a gas tolar and at the rate of increasing the starting price factor, if we say, in the construction of highways, the simple Dolejec imagines that there will be not enough money and because there will be not enough money, it will not start soon. We're going to have in this section, where there are no doubles, probably one very - not black point, but black line or black area, because traffic is becoming unstoppable. I think that as it is, because the context has changed, this also requires a change in national priorities. Here I would expect this government to say: Ladies and gentlemen, it will obviously be "which" too short. Let's go with a private concession, if anyone's ready to take over this thing, and he's funding it and we're going to build it fast. So about trouble nothing, but a lot about the resources that would bring something. Look, I'd like to touch on more questions, these issues of feudalisation and LDS crossing the energy line. I hope you will acknowledge my professional view of this matter, not because I once worked in the field of urbanism and environmental protection, I have 15 experiences in this area. Look, I don't know if you can list a lot of countries where energy and the environment are together. Or another one? Do you know why this isn't usually together? Because it's not good that you're an attacker and a defender together. Energy attacks space by line of water, by line of atomic energy, by thermal power plants or by any means. If you put these two together, you do everything at home, and something "passed" is probably what you do. And that consent, and that consent, and so on. This is a major strategic and professional error for me, that energy, which, of course, is once again a more enjoyable part of the whole meal, still divides in energy, and that is why the heads are cut as much as they are cut - domestically. So this has to go back to LDS and this is going to the environment. And when there is a new government, it will go somewhere else, because it is unnatural that there is only one example of a country that has a common environment and energy. How is the Minister of the Environment going to set the security criteria now, because he's going to have to represent the interests of energy at the same time, which you can't put into space without swallowing something or polluting it? So it's a pure "fopa" and it's just a pure internal game of LDS, which is a coalition that just accepts. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are not pleasant and not promising things. This restructuring of power and this idea, which now lasts and which goes on in human resources solutions so far as to undermine for the first time the legitimate decisions of the former government in the field of foreign policy. It has never happened before that people who have been legally, formally, confirmed by the government's conclusions on this and this function have prepared to be taken over by them overnight without public notice - ladies and gentlemen, you have not listened to this in public expositions as at the time of the Bajuk government, when they said who was named for what, that the Consulate General Killer and Novak were cancelled, if so said, or in the LDS language it is said, we "scanned", "cancle", "it cancle" is some word; so this is outrageous, Mr President, and I turn to you because you are the culprit of this country experiencing the eclipse of the rule of law. The fact that people made all the preparations, one got an "agreement" from the host state to get it out overnight, they had all the professional qualifications. Mr Killer was already an economic representative in Germany, but Mr Novak was already a consul in Celovac, and you have politically cut this off, as in the best totalitarian times. We are protesting this, and what is being proposed here today and what will of course be confirmed is rolling again, as the illegal government has put itself up to, it is leading and will lead this country into great difficulties. Well, we don't agree to this "otter-eyed feudalism." We do not believe that the same direction, the same people who had eight years of opportunity to make the poppies of Europe out of this country and who speak, Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, when he was here for the fourth time, said, "Now things are serious," because I have actually talked about this - yes, what were they like before? Were they not serious? How serious they are if you've ruled for eight years, and now you say they're serious! The problem is that the LDS has promised more and more in each election: give us a vote and you get more - three mandates in order. Now the time of truth has come, and look at what a Christmas card looks like to retirees - one already understands - already numbers are different than they were. True, you have not taken anything, because you have not yet given anything; but what you have given is less than you have promised - and that is what people understand. The pensioners were first in line, the next were the schoolchildren, and there will be others, because what you did was not serious before, that you shared more than eight years of production, led this policy - the house in which we stand, has its share in this, but some government cannot plead to Parliament for something to be accepted. If the government has found that it cannot withstand social transfers under new laws, with the memory that we usually have one coalition here and another in the government, then the government should step down and say: we cannot drive the policy forward responsibly. The government "cassed everything" gave something, gave something, gave something, now accuses the former government of complying with the doctors; we didn't serve the doctors; we just fulfilled what you promised them, because we said: we can't cancel what you had decided in the previous government. And now it's our fault that the doctors went too far. And now you're gonna do it again. So, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to participate in such a policy. We cannot believe that these same people can lead things differently than they have done so far, and of course New Slovenia will not support and vote against these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. I invite Mr Mark Diacija to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. I no longer have any other applications to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, Prime Minister, Ministers and candidates for ministers and the general public! [[It's kind of hard when I'm standing here like this, 'cause I don't know how to turn around, 'cause I tell some people my back.]] Allow me to sum up as much as possible the views and views of the Young Slovenia Party on the presentation of your programmes in the course of the presentation at the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The situation in the field of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will require that you, a respected candidate, make extraordinary efforts and a wealth of broad political support if you first want to correct the mistakes made in the past and, above all, to implement urgently needed projects and programmes that will ensure our country, after the end of the guaranteed right of citizens to quality education. The party of young Slovenia points out that it strongly opposes non-productive theoretical debates on what could and could not be, because we ourselves feel too good about our own skin all the mistakes and mistakes that have been made in the past. The spatial pressures of students in colleges, the extreme lack of student beds, the problems of young researchers and scientists represent a real picture of what heritage you receive. Therefore, in the name of SMS, we can only stress that we will focus our efforts on supporting programmes and projects that will make this chaotic state as quickly as possible. The introduction of the new Ministry of Information Society is essential, as Slovenia is lagging behind not only for the information developed countries, but also for countries that were not able to compare themselves with us a few years ago. Only that model of development of this area, which will provide our country in the inevitable flows of globalisation with a competitive fight in the global economic, economic, political and cultural fields, will be the right one, and we are just young people who have grown up with the development of the Internet and, in our opinion, we are called upon to do everything in this area that is in our power. I will repeat several times the highlighted views of the Young Slovenia Party on the essential importance of a successful and efficient economy, so we support activities for, for example, the quality development of small economy and tourism. The above should be the basis for a social state where each individual earns a fair payment with his own work. Let this be the result of your work. The young Slovenia Party will support your candidacy today in accordance with the implementation of the cooperation agreement. At the same time, we expect the full government from now on, and especially from the Prime Minister Drnovska, to allow the content to be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Diaci. Mr Ivan Kebrich wants the word. He will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please, for peace in the hall. Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u12	Nicely greeted. Thank you, Mr. President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u13	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u14	Dear Mr. Prime Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u15	Comrade Jerovšek, Rupar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u16	candidates for ministers and others, colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] In our parliamentary group, we have decided on the basis of arguments why we will support the candidates and both candidates for the membership of these ministries. We think it's Mrs. Tea Petrin, Mrs. Tea Petrin, convinced in our parliamentary group that she has a specific programme, that she has a specific system, a way of working on how she will manage her ministry's significantly expanded portfolio. I will not refer to its implementations, nor to the answers, nor to our questions that we have asked, many of them, and based on the answers and its programme, how the enlarged programme will manage it, we have found it appropriate for this ministry. We also listened attentively to Dr Paul Gantar, who presented the new ministry's programme. We asked him a lot of questions, too. We wanted concrete answers to create an image. We were of the opinion that we were late to set up such a ministry, because today's time is called the Information Age and we call companies information companies, so that as much information as possible is needed, but based on this information is being refined and a better programme can be created for the benefit of all. From all these conclusions, we have concluded that our parliamentary group will support the candidates and both candidates for the ministerial assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. I ask whether any of the Members and Members of Parliament wish to report their performance in writing. He will thus have the right to speak indefinitely about his views. I guess not. Two of them have already done it. They're friends of Dr. Keating's. Franc Tsukati and Dr. Franz Kangler. After this order, you get the word. Please, mate. You have the floor. Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Respectable audience! I would only touch on the questions where I was present when I presented my candidate, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Lucija Čokova, in addition to the good things you have already mentioned and I would not repeat them, mention only one. I am pleased to ensure that science funds are raised to at least 1% of the social income, but in the next debate, there was an issue of concern on a particular issue. I'd like to mention this problem on the medical school case. For 30 years there has been a limited enrolment of students at the only medical university at 150. Until 10 years ago, we covered the needs of doctors with the flow of doctors from other republics and not only the free flow and flow of Slovenes, but also many Slovenians studied in Zagreb, the river, in other colleges, which were recognised, are not now with us. Ten years ago, he dried up that supply. I must say that, among other things, medicine is a very intensive developmental industry, which is always picking up and hearting new staff, new doctors, so now we have between 30 and 50 doctor jobs every year on the newly uncovered - on the newly uncovered! The average age of a Slovenian doctor increases from year to year and is now about 48 to 50 years. When I mentioned this problem, of course, I said that according to our calculations we should have already raised the entry to the only medical faculty in Slovenia to 180 if we wanted to prevent a human resources problem that is now present and which is deepening. When I asked the Minister the question of how she pictured the solution to this problem, I did not at first have the impression that she perceived this as a serious problem. And I didn't get any answers, except for some possibility that one day, in the distant future, we might be able to allow students who would be able to pay for studies, so they would have a fat wallet and so on. I'm mentioning this for two reasons. I would expect the Minister of Health to truly understand the importance of a university that is not intended for itself, but is a task of reproduction of knowledge, of personnel, of national importance. I didn't have that impression. I would also like a candidate or a candidate to come to this assembly and say that there is a real problem, and that is how we are going to do it. I didn't get that answer. I have come to realize that, in fact, those basic national problems will not be dealt with as they should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Dr. Cuckoo. Mr Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I have to take a call because I was encouraged by some thoughts in the past when the Slovenian daily wrote "black clouds over one institution in Ljubljana" two years ago. Although that was by order, I hope to say today I can say that black clouds are above the city of Maribor. A little joke: Even the gold fox fell off, so it's not the government's fault. In any event, the former Maribor government gave a flower to Maribor, with the same Prime Minister. The Prime Minister assured me at the previous meeting that these services would remain in Maribor. I understood that this service would remain in Maribor and that Maribor would have the Secretary of State for this job. The candidate, Mrs Petrinova, today about the fact that Maribor would have a secretary of state for a small economy is no longer heard; the Undersecretary is sufficient. It's sad, you know, when you meet with your fellow Members on TV at a confrontation, when someone tells you that Maribor, who is a university city, doesn't have the resources to have any resources in the government or any institution. The fact is, there's a serious pile of black clouds over Maribor. As a result, we do not have a representative in the government, not Styrians, not Korosci, or Drava Valley, not Prekmurci. In four years, there will be consequences. I can't imagine Maribor Airport, an alternative, like the second airport in Slovenia. I take this airport personally as an airport of national importance. But not because I come from Maribor, where this airport is close, but because I cannot imagine the president of the state of Milan Kučan, or the Prime Minister, if the Brno airport is closed because of fog, that you will land in Zagreb or in Graz or Trieste. That's unfortunately the bare truth. The Brno airport will be closed, all traffic, either due to damage to the runway or signalling, or any other technical faults at the airport, will be directed to Trieste, Zagreb, Gradec or any other airport. Regardless of the opinion of the local communities in the divisional balance sheet around the Maribor airport, the government must withdraw its moves and ensure that this airport is of national importance. To hold this, look at the personnel business. This flies mainly to the President of the State. We have nine constitutional judges. None of them are from the University of Maribor. It's like we don't even have a university. None of them are from Prekmurje or Koroška. It is as if only some in this country have been called who are able to lead or perform some function in some position. As far as I know, the town of Maribor, Drava Valley has two state secretaries, one in culture and Mrs Magda Truck for Slovenians around the world. What is the economic crisis, the social crisis? For some, this is probably funny, but especially for fellow Jakic, who is here in Ljubljana at home, and of course there is nothing to avoid having comments on some other Members, regardless of the client from where it comes. I am aware that I am a Member of all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the same time I am aware of the problems and problems from which I come and from where I was elected. We lost the Ministry of Small Economy in Maribor. Today, some are boasting about the Maribor streets, saying that they will already be with the 1.12. postmasters to replace the post principal with the interest that the service as such, the post office stays in Maribor, and some services can move to Ljubljana I appeal to you, all those who have the opportunity, the influence that all the jobs that Maribor still has, will remain where they are. It will be necessary to change the relationship not only to Maribor, but also to some more distant places, such as Maribor, also to Prekmurje. Unfortunately, I am very surprised that some Members of the Prekmurje have not come to our attention to this day and would be a little out of line for the places where they come from. I personally feel like we're on our way to even greater decentralisation. By abolishing the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism in Maribor, I would really like to ask in two years how much the state rationalised certain services and the remaining financial resources, which should have been due to the fact that the ministry was in Maribor. It is my personal opinion that even today, when there will be a vote on ministers and ministers, we will vote on each and every one, even under the rules of procedure. But I have a feeling that someone in this room is afraid that any of the ministers or ministers would not be elected, even though they're from his party. This is proof that something is wrong, that there is a need to look at this country from a different perspective and that it is indeed necessary to ensure a balanced all-Slovenian development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. After this debate, I limit this item to 5 minutes. Three colleagues have been reported. Branko Kelemina, Aloys Sok, and Joseph Jerovšek. It's a replica. Comrade Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u22	Mr President of the Government, the candidates, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of Mr Kangler must be addressed by confirming that they are black over Maribor, but this matter needs to be extended. As the new government performed, the black clouds apparently rallied over all of Styria. Just as Styria has been fed in the plans of the new government, it has not yet been. Despite the fact that in some areas of Styria, the highest unemployment rates and all the signs that came with this government indicate that Styria is in fact neglected. This reduction of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, of course, points to the intentions of the Liberal Democracy, what it will do in the field of telecommunications. The fact is that in Styria, too, has been the most invested through citizens in telecommunications development in the past, that is to say, making telephones, and the new government does not intend to return this money to people in the form of shares. She clearly wrote that down. Look. And I have to replicate Mr. Kangler here, too. I don't know why he wasn't a candidate for transport and liaison, Mr. Bergauer. I must say at this point that the name is some kind of obedience and awareness of Styria's developmental backlog. Now this is cut off by the LDS, Mr Presečnik, has the best opinion on his human qualities, but this reduction of the Ministry shows that at least in the medium term he will not make a move and here Styria is cut off, even though it is geographically coming from the edge of Styria. Then it's about helping businesses. From today’s work, it is virtually obvious, in the case of Šuštar, that only those companies that transferred two thirds of the aid to accounts in Switzerland, Florida, the Bahamas. Mr Prime Minister, I am surprised that you have not spoken a word about this. Yesterday in Germany, two ministers resigned because of mad cow disease. I'm sure these two ministers didn't feed themselves animals, cows, bone meal, but they did. Yesterday, the Minister also resigned, not yet elected in the US government, Mrs Chavez, because ten years ago something illegal was happening at her home. In our country, however, corruption of such a strong scale. And I thought that, on this occasion, when these signatories for the referendum gave you the opportunity to reconsider, you would think again, and at first I expected that the lady herself would be on the principle of objective responsibility, because corruption was on the rise during her ministry, she would pull this move herself. In every European country, in the event of an outbreak of corruption of this magnitude, even though it is only the tip of the iceberg, that corruption is obviously everywhere and that it is now legal with these debriss, with these brutal personnel clearances, that corruption is placed on the level of state policy. Again, I did not expect that, in the course of such a corruption affair, the Minister would run ahead and that the Prime Minister would not respond. In countries where corruption is a state policy, the periphery cannot develop. And Styria - I agree with my colleague Kangler - is beheaded, certainly beheaded, and there is nothing good about Styria in this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. A colleague of Branko Kelemin, a colleague of Aloise Sok, has the floor. Excuse me? No offense, buddy Kelemina. Do you have a replica? Five minutes. May I ask Members and Members for correctness on this occasion - the replica lasts five minutes, as well as the performance. I'm running away from the fact that replicas are overtaken by those who have already been reported. It is only a matter of correctness, otherwise the Rules of Procedure do not govern otherwise. Dude, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. My replica will be sent to an explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Kangler, I don't know why, called me from the bench about a very topical problem he opened when he also talked about regional human resources representation. I don't know why I should feel like this, or why my colleagues, who don't come from Ljubljana, force me to be ashamed because I'm Ljubljana. On the contrary, I am also in favour of decentralisation in all areas and regionalisation in human resources. Of course, colleague Kangler, when I turned to the Posavig and Zasavik colleagues back, I just wanted to know how many State Secretaries were being held by the Zasavci or the Posavci, and this was a discussion that unfortunately disturbed your legitimate and weighty discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else have a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Kelemin, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. All together, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished candidates and candidates! Regardless of the fact that this is a formality, because you have a majority and you will vote, as you have, of course, this mandate, even today, but I cannot speak a word, two or more. At all the presentations, some old and some new candidates I felt extremely great, a lot of ignorance in their answers, a lot of complacency, self-sufficiency. I claim that you will probably treat Slovenian citizens, Slovenians, Slovenians, Slovenians, as a member of the opposition, and that we cannot expect anything completely good from this. If I only mention Mr Gantar, when he spoke and spoke in the next tone, you say, "You, what are you to teach me how to work in the Ministry of Environment and Space" because I have just said a few criticisms instead of respectfully accepting criticism. Okay, well, I could have apologized if I was too rude. He, if you are who you are to say it, you may be the least called to say it. Yes, then who will say this if not a Member or an opposition Member, even though he is not an expert in this field? But I warned you that all the mistakes you've made, we'll feel them on drinking water first. The environment is poisoned, and as soon as we meet, or we are already facing this problem, because I already have to buy drinking water in bottles if I want to know that I am drinking clean water. But let's just leave it. In all these presentations, there has also been a great deal of gratitude for all the results you have achieved in these ten years. But you didn't say it, and you, Mr. President, always advocate it, you're just honoring the achievements that we've achieved in ten years, but you're not saying that we're for [[Incomprehensible word.]] which we had in 1990 in order to achieve significantly more. The only good thing about Slovenia is that we have good people in Slovenia, not to say 'asses' who work, work and work properly and are kept quiet and let themselves be exploited and manipulated. I tell you that with this centralisation that you have set up today and with this totalitarianism and the militant policy that Mr Janez Drnovšek allows, you will not really get far or I think it goes beyond all the limits of good taste. If I only mention one area that has already been mentioned, you have replaced Mr Türk, who has shown only during this period that profit can also be generated in the electricity system. You replaced him so you could do what you wanted in your own February. I do not resent all those around you, but I resent you, Mr Drnovšek, because I still have confidence in you. Always! I've always expected you to be an honest man, to be reasonable, and to put around you once only a team that will start doing what is necessary. Today you have wasted this trust of mine definitively and I hope that Slovenian citizens too. Besides, it's like this at the end of the day. Clearly, this is the fate of our country, you just beat democracy, the rule of law, beat justice and the truth, the Slovenians probably deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Comrade Alojz Sok has his word and is the last to be reported, at least according to my record, Comrade Kremjar. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u28	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister, together with the candidates for ministers! Nice to meet you. The concept of black clouds over Stijersko would like to stretch a little bit and I would say that it is poorly written throughout North-East Slovenia. It is obvious that in this demographically endangered area of Slovenia, where it is mostly stationed or the most present Slovenian agriculture, it is an extremely poor policy, as there is no suitable candidate from this work that could become a member of the Slovenian government. It is clear that after the catastrophic drought we experienced last year, now after this madness around mad cows, in this part of Slovenia, we obviously only have enough refugees who every night, work us every night, come through our territory, and that is probably what we deserve the most at this point. Because it is obvious that Dr. Drnovsk’s government is not agile enough to solve this problem. But given that this is not a practical topic, today we are talking about appointing the new missing ministers, I would like to respond as a member of the Infrastructure Committee to just two dilemmas that are emerging from me. First of all, the Department of Transport and Communications. I must say that in the first presentation, the Minister did not answer a lot of questions, he answered most of the questions, I will ask questions, I will see, I have not had time to study this matter yet and so on. In the second presentation, however, he was already a little clearer, above all he announced the reduction of the programme for the construction of the Slovenian road cross. He said that there would have to be a balance in this area, and of course we understood this in this direction that this government would not give sufficient attention to this great problem. From here, I would like to remind the Prime Minister and ministers that this is one of the most important issues in this country. If we want our economy to develop as we have set this goal, then please do not reduce funds to build Slovenian roads, because we urgently need you. If you want the northeast part of Slovenia not to be further cut off from the rest of Slovenia, then it is essential that we build this road cross against Stajerska as soon as possible. As far as the Ministry of Information Society is concerned. I personally believe that this matter could be settled within the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It is, as has already been said before me, for the feudalization and adoption of that part of the ministry, which is the only one that is profitable. Telekom is in business with a lot of profits, even though some media outlets have written that it works with loss. So this is a profit, and apparently the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has decided that this must belong to it, so that it can divide some more of the feuds in this division. Above all, it bothers me to ask Minister Gunter that he has not answered the question three times clearly what will be the principle of the privatisation of Telekom. Because I wanted to get a clear answer from him, whether those who invested could forgive me for expressing themselves in German brands, even after 9,000 German marks in Slovenian telephony, or if they could expect anything from this title, and if they could, in any way. The minister replied that we would study this further, the models are different, they can be that we know all this. [[...]] We wanted to know what his principle was. Well, in the end, he said that only those who invested would get about 10% of that. Since my time has run out, I thank you for your word and end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. A colleague of Leopold Kremjar, a colleague of Aloise Peterle and Davorin Terchon, has the floor. Please. A replica? Comrade Targeton, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would like to replicate both the last speaker and, in part, Mr Jerovsk and Mr Kangler. Everyone was at the forefront of concern over the situation of North-East Slovenia, especially Maribor, and related decentralisation in Slovenia as well. I understand that their concern is, to some extent, justified. However, I would say that they have asked the wrong questions and, above all, the wrong cases. Mr. Kangler mentioned concern for the Maribor airport. I wonder, too, because I was a Member in the previous term, which is why we in this House have confirmed the billion-dollar renewal of the Maribor airport, but if then the workers themselves have proposed bankruptcy, because it is clearly not only possible to survive this airport. I believe that it is not the only reason for the reconstruction of the Maribor airport that the President of the State or the Prime Minister, if closed in bronze, will be able to land at the Maribor airport. And that there were probably other reasons for that. However, I would say to Mr Jerovsk that, after the Bayuk government took place, it was a kind of reconstruction of the former government, in my opinion, given the fact that the ministers of SLS+SKD have mostly held their positions. However, the SDS partner in this government did not find any ministerial position that would come either from Styria or any other part of Slovenia, nor from Primorska, because I come from this area alone. I think that in some ways the care for decentralisation and the situation of this area is justified, but this is a matter of agreement between the centre and the other provinces in Slovenia, how they will divide their share of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. The word is Leopold Kremger, followed by his colleague Peterle. It's a replica of a colleague Kangler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u32	Thanks for the replica. My fellow Member, I must be honest with you that I agree more with you. But look. [[The point is, it doesn't sound like it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u33	More out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u34	I say that I can almost agree with my fellow Member, Terchoon, but someone in this country always says that all institutions in Ljubljana can be. In view of the infrastructure built by our country, there is no fear and concern that several different state institutions can be found at different ends of Slovenia. Today you can come according to the highway program from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia even in one hour. As far as the Maribor airport and the money invested in the airport are concerned, it's on the track. In this country, it is likely that someone was aware that the Maribor airport was of national importance. This means that it is not only for the two or three presidents to be able to land, so says the President of Parliament, the State and the Government, at the Maribor airport if it is closed. No, no, no. This airport is logistically very important for Central Europe by highway cross, by rail and by port Koper, which is close to this airport. From the Maribor airport to the port of Koper is 200 km. Here the country of the Republic of Slovenia can market and this region is also growing economically. And look. But what if the technology at the Brno airport cancels? Will all passenger traffic really be because in two, three days, they will not be able to correct some mistakes, redirected to Celovec, Graz or Trieste. That's a fact. I can't even imagine my country's president or government if the Brno airport is closed to go to Zagreb to land. In addition to the Maribor airport, we have the second largest airport in Slovenia, including Cerklje. These facilities will need to be taken care of and the government must have an interest here. The local communities are too small and too small a factor that such a problem as the Maribor airport represents could be remedied.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. You wanted a word for the replica? For the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u36	Please. Thank you very much. Mr Tarchoon must be told that the difference between four months or four years from the government being put in place for the whole legislation. Byjuk's government, it was known that there must be a very technical government, and that is why such persons also stood up, who were able to grab a job overnight and start to answer the second day, because they had not, as has been said, had a hundred minutes of time before the opposition party then hunted them down for every word and performed hysteria in that country. With the current human resources solutions, which are much worse, much more brutal and more bloodthirsty, where they eliminated everything that smelled like Styria. The former government has not abolished the tourism ministry in Maribor, Mr Terčon, but it is now. The previous government also appointed the President of the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society with Styria.You now know - Mr. Kopač has this hand up and this is only Ljubljana! So your argument is not justified. You have travelled with the current government for four years such development, such indicators and instruments that Styria, I am sure, will be severely affected in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. A replica? Please. Then I will give my word to Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. A brief replica to all those who somehow fail to achieve the essence of the content of confirming today the four Ministers of the State of Slovenia. This National Assembly will confirm the four Ministers of the State of Slovenia, who will also swear before this assembly in accordance with the Constitution to act in favour of the State of Slovenia, not for the benefit of the country of Styria, Notranj, Ljubljana, Primorska, so it may be a shame that we owe in these replicas that the individual environment is underrepresented. It is the State budget that responds to the work of the Minister, which must have a national perspective in the first place. The state budget will also service Stajerska, including Ljubljana, also Notranjska, also Dolenjska. And it would be good, Mr President - I appeal to all of us - to slowly cease this range, which is more neglected and will have little impact in the executive policy of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Comrade Terchon, you want a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u40	So, just for a little while, my fellow Jerovsk. Perhaps if we went through the mandate of governments, which were also made up of liberal democracy, we would also find some responsible functions outside the government because he dragged someone out of the capital company, but I don't know who they were then. For the first time today, however, I have learned that technical and short-term governments are only able from the centre, and that you are working in Styria for a longer period.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Comrade Sok? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u42	I'd like to replicate Mr. Brenčič. I thought Mr. Kangler was going to be his client, but apparently, because they're in the same party, that's probably why he's not. Today we are discussing government personnel and it is normal that we have just come to all those who feel that we are coming from areas that are neglected, as far as government staffing is concerned. And the northeast part of Slovenia is the most neglected in this respect. That's probably why we did this. I don't know if you, Mr Brenčič, think we missed the debate with this, but it's your personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I see the replicas are exhausted, at least in this circle. That's how I finally give my word to Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I have participated in the presentations of virtually all ministerial candidates, and I must say that, at least as far as my taste and my behaviour are concerned, these presentations were substantively profound and, of course, focused on development, so I think that the candidates are right and I can very much support them. I also participated in Dr Gantar's presentation and, of course, his presentation was very dignified, and I must say that I listened to the whole debate and that what was unworthy or unfair was not heard. I have also taken part in another function with some, including Dr. Gantar, in recent times also with Mr President, just as regards the airport, several times already mentioned. On the other hand, it will only be an example - Mr Presečnik has become very involved in solving this problem, he has detected, and, of course, there are things going on that cannot be solved in a few hours or in one day. One more word, though. I don't think it matters where the ministers come from, and that the debate going in this direction is a region, an area has or does not have ministers, not going in the right direction. No matter where I think and where this ministry is based, I place Dr. Petrinov's heart in thought, not because of the areas from which the Secretary of State is from and where the Ministry is based, because of areas such as small economy and tourism, which are supposed to be paradoxical disciplines in the future also in Slovenia, to place these two areas in one area, wider where the very capable Secretary of State will also cover other very difficult things, so that, of course, they could have slightly worse effects in these two areas. Therefore, my appeal and my thought in this direction to Dr. Petrinov to consider this organization. In particular, because I must say that, however, its presentation, which was very well received in the first discussion, is also the end of the Styria area, which we are talking about today, which we are talking about, has been understood in this way, but will be preserved somehow. Part of this ministry is a symbolic matter that has no such profound substantive effects. But symbolism is also very important and this symbolism, which has gone in the direction of decentralisation, would, of course, be pleasant and appropriate in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My friend Kelemin wants a word for the replica. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u46	Yeah. Thank you very much. Just for a little while, Mr. Kremjar. It makes sense that you will try to defend your client colleagues in any way. This is completely excusable and understandable. However, if you think I'm speaking contrary to what was happening there, please read the tape. I mean, I don't know what you were doing back then, because I wasn't watching you so closely, but things were just like I did and I felt them like I said before. So much for the explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Peterlet, I'm asking if anyone else would like a word. My colleague Peterle is the last person reported for discussion. [[Yeah.]] Okay. My friend Peterle, you have the floor. He's been followed by a colleague of Puksic's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sure that today, in the framework of this extraordinary session, we should first have a second item on the agenda, depending on what we are reading, what we are listening to or what we already know. And this point should be called the issue of state corruption. Today we should decide to set up an investigative commission and more. Instead, we serve the interests and needs of one party who wants more than it already has and who will further feudalise the telecommunications sector, which is very profitable. See what the opinion we received from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment says and where the candidate for Minister came from. The priorities are: preparation and adoption of the amended Telecommunications Act of Our Lady and gentlemen, you know that most laws are not done, not by the Minister, not by his service, but by lawyers who are hired outside the various institutes and so on. The Minister then somehow packs it up, equips it properly and sends it to the government and then to Parliament. Those of us in the government know how these things work. In order to make a modified law, the law obviously already exists to be modified in order to supplement or amend it, there is no need for a new ministry. This could be regulated by the Secretary of Telecommunications. Second thing. It says here that the privatisation of Telekom, Slovenia, is based on decisions of privatisation models. Look, there's no need to privatize Telekom either, Ministry. The Ministry just doesn't have, so I see things, a key task in this matter. Then the next task is to ensure the connectivity of the existing telecommunications lines. On the contrary, I do not read this in technical terms, since it is certainly not the intention of this ministry to be a company of installers that will take care of the integration of the lines. The integration of interests in this area, which are already largely covered by the key people proposed by the LDS, is not necessary to coordinate the LDS in this area. And the next thing. Definition of the postal development strategy of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, will this be the task of the Ministry of Information Society? Why don't you get this mail ready and then take a little look at the Ministry? So I can't understand this differently than the feudalisation and then the cooperation in the establishment and implementation of Project I, E of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the administration. Or they wouldn't give it to some firm, they'd give a call, and they'd say that the government wants me to work or do business, it says here, it's going to go against I, and it's going to be even more eonic, as it already is. That's why we don't need a ministry, ladies and gentlemen! That's what some firm should do on the basis of an invitation to tender. And now it's gonna be 40 or how many people there are gonna be. I don't think I'm the only one who knows that the tasks listed here and supposed to be priorities don't require a new ministry. I would have been a good enough secretary with a good minister and, of course, with a team I think there are some of them already in this ministry. So this ministry, I say, is not necessary. The LDS also knows that there is no need. It's obviously just about redistribution of power, poverty of coalition partners. After all this, I have to say that if I sleep today, I'm sure I'll dream of deep pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much, fellow Peterle. My friend Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members, Prime Minister, candidates for ministers! Of course, I think that in today's debate again the appointment of the new four ministers, or the new government scheme, is a very important issue, therefore, after the government law again, how this is also divided and distributed. Of course, as far as the opposition Member is concerned, this is the only place where he can draw attention to the issue. As far as the coalition MP is concerned, it is probably a place somewhere else, in the coalition, in the negotiations at the time, of course, when these resources are being shared. If part of the coalition did not have the power to express or carry out such a demonstration in the Chamber. All right. However, from the 8th constituency from which I come, the current ruling coalition received nine Members, five Liberal Democracy, one Consolidated List, one DeSUS and two Slovenian People's Party. If this coalition had nine members in each constituency, we'd have 72 today. Thank God it's not like that. However, if she got them from the eighth constituency, so I'm talking more broadly about Maribor, but about Styria, but about the eighth constituency, and from Ptuj to Lendava there, it would certainly be based on the trust of this coalition, so that voters and voters would also get feedback that this part of Slovenia is equally taken into account in all divisions, and of course also in the division of ministerial cities. Sorry, it's not like that. More. The possibility was even to obtain a Member from Haloz, whom Haloze had never before had in the National Assembly, a Member of Liberal Democracy, if of the five members of liberal democracy one of them was suitable for a coalition to form or manage one of the ministries. Even more, the request of all the parties who attended the meeting in Maribor, in the city congregation was that this would happen, so that some ministry would come to Maribor or Stijersko. He did not wish to sign the request for a representative of liberal democracy. Even more, it is said that the post office - of course I am not talking about personnel matters, but about the seat - is also supposed to move against Ljubljana. This is, of course, a big mistake and a mistake. That this is a big mistake and a mistake, says the coalition contract on page 75 in the 75th, where it says that the law on increased employment in municipalities with higher average unemployment will be rejected. There is also a big mistake on the 87th page of the Coalition Treaty, the 199. Act on the provision of funds to promote coherent regional development in an area with special development problems, in order for this law to be rejected by the Coalition. That's a big mistake, too. So it's very important, whether you like it or not, where the ministerial team comes from or where ministers come from. It is also important whether individual ministries move from the centre to Ljubljana. Colleagues and colleagues, more! I don't know how many of you the previous state development programme has ahead of you - I pulled it from the Internet just a few years ago - talking about funds, 500 million euros a year for sustainable agricultural progress and integrated rural development and about 1.5 billion [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - I will conclude immediately - the euro again per year for infrastructure, transport and the environment. [[...]] Only three regions, Savino, Pomurska and Zasavska, are covered by this previous national development programme. I certainly won't wonder why the three are, but I wonder why it's not in the Podravska region, which has the lowest gross domestic product per capita according to population density, which is much larger or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u51	Please finish your thought. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for stopping this debate, if necessary. I'd like to ask you, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u53	Please don't argue, my friend Pukšič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u54	that you do not interfere in the future so that you can normally complete your thought. [[...]] These data are also, of course, alarming when they talk about gross added value per capita in the Podrav region, and again they are the lowest in the previous national development programme of this region. How important it would be to have at least one minister from this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. I take it that no one has been reported for discussion. Comrade Bevk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u56	Mr. President! I ask that, pursuant to Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the work of the National Assembly be suspended for fifteen minutes for consultation in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u57	I'm taking a vacation. The National Assembly will continue the session and also decide because we have concluded the debate. Before I leave, I would ask the Prime Minister or ministers whether they would like to participate in the debate. Would you like to cooperate? Do Members agree that the Prime Minister and ministers answer questions? Please, you have the floor, Prime Minister, if you please. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u58	Well, you have expressed a number of different thoughts that are largely outside the scope of this proposal for the appointment of four ministers. We have also said many things and responded when we first discussed the appointment of a government a month ago. Just for a moment about some of the points that may have been repeatedly exposed today. It's a local factor, if I say so myself. As Prime Minister, I would be seriously concerned and would not like to have such a minister who, because he is from a place or a region, would then give a special advantage to that place or that region. I can't collect ministers according to local criteria. Each minister must act in the interests of the whole country objectively and impartially. Therefore, it would be absolutely impossible for a government to put together, and it is already very and extremely difficult for the composition of the government to take into account balance and local balance in the distribution of clients and gender distribution, etc. It is completely impossible to calculate, especially if we want to have a competent government, an effective government, and a government of people who can then do what is before them. So I said that this proposal of the government was, of course, made in the best possible faith, that it was the best possible within these given frameworks, that it was a good team, and that these four ministers, too, had already been in the debate, that is to say, one at a time today, that these four ministers, two of them, were good candidates. Well, I'm sure of that. As far as the Minister of Economy is concerned, I have said at that time that I think her approaches are saying that her approach, her concept of the one that is the most exclusion of the lobbies, interests, ultimately corruption from this work, has already begun to create greater control and transparency over the use of public funds in its previous mandate, that then her mandate has been suspended, that interim minister has not discovered anything at that time that she, too, has probably not been able to do, as has been shown later, that this is obviously not so simple to the Minister. However, it is important for the Minister to establish a system, concept, control, greater transparency. And what its concept differs from the traditional concepts of economic ministers, as we have understood them in our country, is just that. Therefore, the failure to grant some aid, funds, one or another’s eyes, but on clear criteria, with transparency and, of course, the fact that these aids are public funds, subsidies are becoming less and less. As little as possible. And that only those accepted by Europe, the European Union, which are well adapted or based on a regional criterion, will remain to promote regional development. So this is what will be the criterion, not any more activity, what business, who is there, but with the criteria for regional development. This is the concept that we are trying to establish and that I think Minister Petrinova represents most. As regards the various other comments and questions, perhaps regarding the staff, about the staffing. I wouldn't want myself to have to deal with different changes in government, in different ministries, in different jobs. But look at the situation. The former government, the transitional government, has made a lot of changes, and I have never attacked it as strongly as any human resources clean-up or anything. But she certainly made a lot of trades and, of course, she had all the legal illegality, the right. For a mandate that was limited to six months, i.e. six months, that was my main consideration then, why so many exchanges for a mandate that will be so short, because some people will change and others will come and they will not be able to start working seriously, and they will already be elections and the end of the mandate. Now, of course, this government is setting up teams for the entire mandate for four years. At the same time, it faces the situation that a number of people were replaced six months ago, for whom many, including the current ministers, believe that the replacements were unjustifiable, not by some criteria of competence or expertise or anything like that. So for this reason, it is almost imperative that certain changes occur, to establish teams that will work at this time. It's about teams that ministers think will be able to achieve those goals that we set. I see some reactions have also triggered today's replacement of Director Eles. It is likely that more explanation will come from the Ministry itself, if not today, and in the coming days. I myself have been skeptical about the need for this exchange, but the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has very urgently warned the government that harmful contracts are coming and that an immediate change is needed. What I understand or am trying to present the problem correctly, because you state the argument that more profits have been made, more commercial profits in the electricity economy, is obviously this problem, because the Slovenian electricity economy has to supply Slovenia with electricity in the first place. We'd make the most of it if we sold all the electricity to outsiders and stayed in the dark without electricity. According to those estimates we have heard, this is exactly what threatened us if this concept were to continue to be realized and if the sales set, electricity exports would continue in this way. That was the reason the government then considered him urgent. Or I'd say that. We're trying to get a serious job in the government, in all ministries. There's a tremendous amount of work ahead of us. What we are doing today is that, as I said in the introduction, this government is being fully established. I think it's high time that we do this, that we don't have to be in the interest of the opposition or in the interest of the position, of course even less of a coalition, that this should not have been done, that the government would not have acted, that problems in the country would not have been solved, that at the very beginning, of course, there were as many questions as the elections would have been tomorrow, that some discussions were really like this, but by 2004 ours was waiting for a lot of problems, a lot of problems, a lot of things, a lot of opportunities, of course, for the opposition to be critical to all of this, but of course we must start doing it now, seriously, so the government has to be complete. And that's what the National Assembly decides today. Of course, voters, ministers and the government will, of course, be billing voters when the time comes. And now we come from the position that the voters, the citizens, have given us this mandate, the responsibility to do something now. Now is probably not the time for such discussions as they were just before the elections, but it is time to work, we are trying to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Your debate sparked some replicas. Members and Members will be given the floor after asking whether candidates and candidates for ministers want to participate in this debate. I guess not. Then we go in line, just like they signed up. First, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister and ministers and candidates for ministers! Look, I cannot agree with the Prime Minister's first statement, which said that a number of things went outside the box. We used to stick to the agenda in this house just like we did this afternoon. That's what I'm saying in full consciousness. I am then concerned about the continuation of the performance by Mr President, who says she supports Minister Petrinovo, who is for a different policy. Again I say, so far something has gone wrong. The words "not good eyes" were used. But who had previously given it to "fine eyes" was Dragonja, or was there any other minister, that now you have to change the line and end up with some line of allocation of funds. If the Minister was so on a different line, why did she take care of the distribution of such grants in the last minute? Why didn't she leave it if she was against it in principle? Now, on this line, let's get to the exchange. Mr President, look, after the battle, it's nice to be a general and wise. You know, Bajuk's government's assumption was not a six-month term, and then there were elections. But when there were trades for which, thank God, I once heard someone honestly say that they were legal, legitimate and that the government had the right to do so. And I also remember the debate on Mr Šuštar. As Secretary of State, like many others, not as in this case, they stayed and said, "This is an extremely professional man, let him keep it because it is professional", and we kept it. If he didn't, God knows if things were going as well as they were, we were paying attention, in nicknames, to "your" secretary, but it happened, but it was obviously already agreed. And there's something else I'd like to point out again. Byuk's government has not annulled any legal decision of the previous government. Your government does so in a political way in the field of human resources [[I mentioned two cases.]] . And one more thing, some misunderstanding. Mr Prime Minister, look, the voters have not given you a mandate. It's a big mistake! The voters gave the LDS so much, the other parties so much, you gave yourself a mandate with this coalition. The mandate under the coalition structure could also look very different, and the LDS could be even outside, and we would have a government because you don't have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, may I suggest that the council is not required? Thank you very much. In this way, I note that two others have been reported before we vote on the proposal. First, my colleague Jerovšek and his colleague Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u62	I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in view of his implementation, whether his government will have a European criterion of objective responsibility for the next four years - because he said the teams are working for four years. Actually, I have to repeat what I said today. The German ministers did not feed the cows with bone meal and gave up because of the public’s excitement. With us, the public is upset, and they should be even more so, because of massive corruption. That's a fact now. But this is where we're taking everything forward. All other human resources solutions have been strictly confirmed; Mrs Petrinova has already appointed Mr Golob during this time, and there have been many cases of arbitrary, including corruption, including receiving money for some of the studies that the very other authorities have been doing. Mr President, you mentioned that you were skeptical until Mr Türk's replacement. What does that mean? This means that it is not your decision, but Mr Bandelj's decision with the Human Resources Commission. That you don't have this opportunity and this power to stop you from knowing something to wait for the day. It's a bloodthirsty exchange, bloodthirsty, I must say. You cleaned everything up, and before that, the chase was acting like the previous government was replacing it. Now let the newspapers make every day a comparison of what's changed and what's not. If you were skeptical and you didn't have the power to stop it for at least one day, then it's terribly drastic, worrying. What else awaits us in this country? Mr Bandelj is also mentioned here today that where he has a share of ownership, that company, that PID, has been awarded a concession to incinerate bone meal. We are seeing developments in a completely different direction than in Germany or in America, where Ministerial Candidate Chavez resigned when she began to complain that something was wrong in the area of her candidacy. Is this how the criteria in this country are lowered compared to Europe? How will we go to Europe with such miserable criteria, for which every day you point out that we are on a firm path, that we are determined. I mean, if we don't do the order cancer wound of our society, it's corruption! [[...]] Unfortunately, in the last eight years this corruption has grown into organs, into an area of the top policy, unfortunately, too. In doing so, I would expect that, when you have formed the Ministry of Information Society, you will form what was a typical floscule, including the Ministry of Open Society and the Ministry of the New Economy. That was before the election all the time. In view of all this, I think Mr Šuštar would be extremely suitable for the head of the Ministry of the New Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Two more have been reported, first a colleague of Kelemin and then a colleague of Pukšič. You have the floor, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your word. Mr President, you have now also spoken about the criteria by which such and other means should be shared in the future. I just want to tell you that you are certainly very misinformed in all these matters or that you are deliberately deceiving everything. I will now briefly explain to you that I have seen the documents of the first call for these problematic means, where without some criteria a divider has been made, and then I have seen another list, where it was divided on the basis of criteria. Do you know what the criteria were in the other case? They're exactly the same, except that they wrote points from one in five or nothing to one, etc. These were then professional criteria. And which companies got that help again? Most of those on the first list. They were shared again by the same people. Therefore, there is now an expertise and a different allocation of resources for you. All these companies are basically corrupt, but it's basically about companies through the development society, and there's manure in there that can't be dug up. That's what we've been alerting you to for the last entire term, but it means nothing to you, absolutely nothing. We have left, as has already been said, your best staff at the Ministry in the previous period, such as Mr. Schuster. Look what it is! But corruption isn't just there. Corruption in Slovenia is on a huge scale. What did we find out at the debate yesterday? Since 1994, since we have this law on reporting or protecting corruption, there has been no legal judgment, not one, you can imagine, in all this mass corruption that we have in this country. Not one. This is impossible, and it is precisely to explain to you now that Mr Zagozhen was unable to prove any faults, etc. because your system, which you have set up in eight years, has blocked it. It is also blocking everything that is going on in this area today. This is evident from the journals, from articles written by journalists. And these are mostly journalists who favor your options and not ours. Here's the core of the problem. This law you have just laid will not solve all these problems. Mr Drnovšek, although I wish you a successful and effective rule in these four years, under such conditions and as you have now begun in this short period, within these two months, you will not achieve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u65	The last reported is colleague Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u66	I am pleased that the Prime Minister has said that the criteria will be for the future, because, of course, so far they have not been criteria for regional development. That the criteria for regional development were not, the indices of the economic performance of the Slovenian regions also show. The central Slovenian region with index 150 and Podravska with index 72 are regions that have lower or the relationship between these regions is worrying, almost 1:3. Mr Prime Minister, when you said that, of course, you do not want a minister coming from the region to give that particular region an advantage. Of course not, I agree with this, but the fact is that such ministers will have a particular issue, to certain areas, i.e. undeveloped areas and so on, significantly better and significantly more globally know, than ministers coming from other environments. With such, I believe, a way of recruiting also prevents a lot of corruption. See, in 1994, under your leadership, two key laws, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Code were amended. What this has brought after us, we know. Two and a half years of work by a parliamentary investigative commission, which adopted 13 conclusions, which are very clear. Now it's another way of harming, stealing, and so on. This could also be significantly better with the different distribution of ministerial posts. Mr President, I hope that, after a four-year mandate, the relationship between the central Slovenian and the Podrav region will no longer be 150 to 72, but that this relationship will be significantly better for the Podrav region. That's what you promised today. I hope you will realize that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to say hello to all the candidates for the ministers first. I'd like to add a few words to what my colleagues are. Some critical, particularly what Mr Drnovšek, Prime Minister, presented. First, about school. Slovenia, if it has something to offer, cannot offer some mines, some heavy industry, but we can offer knowledge. Here, in the presentation of the ministers themselves, we have not heard anything encouraging. The former government with the minister, in front of Bajuk, has also been working on how to limit enrolment, with different points, classes and so on. We haven't made this leap into the information society yet. I really don't. We should not limit, we should support, with various instruments. And that's not it. That's why, of course, I don't believe in this program that's weak. Of course, they're also weak carriers. Environment and space, information society. I had the opportunity to see the candidate for Minister, Mr Gunter, as he introduced himself, with a computer, an information society. I'm excited about this, and I hope that we're following it in practice as well. Then I went for a joke to look at the LDS website, and I saw that you have old things up, you're still holding elections. Now I don't know if it's going to apply for the next period or if it's still going to happen. You know, actions show, not what we write, what program, what book, how thick a coalition contract is. In fact, the results count. Well, that's a quick fix, and I believe you're a skilled man and you're going to fix it. However, this points to a relationship or a picture, which, of course, will have to be taken into account in all of this. Maybe another word to Dr. Petrin. At the hearing, at the previous hearing, I asked her whether she would review the procedure for granting these aids. The decisive answer was no. I respect her decision. Clearly, then, nothing wrong happened. However, I would doubt, if she is so sure, of course immediately on this decision and that you had such a secretary of state, that of course there are no final decisions yet, but of course they are serious indications. This, of course, also binds the mandate-holder to offer the proposal to someone who, however, should have an objective responsibility, that is to propose a minister to someone who should have an objective responsibility for something that has happened to him. That's what it would be worth to think about. It does not matter, for my understanding, to satisfy the local interests after the appointment of ministries or sexual needs or demarcating, but above all, we need to look at what kind of person we put up. I'll tell you, if we were to look primarily at what kind of expert for the minister, then we would certainly find him, and between women and the Styrians and the Primors, for sure. You just need to take a closer look at the horizon. Because I believe that this government will be voted on, I would still wish her a nice journey, and she would consider these words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Can we conclude this discussion with these wishes? Anyone else want a word? I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates as a whole. In view of the amendment to Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was adopted on 30 May 2000, the Council will vote in public on the list of ministers. I put to the vote the following proposal: "The National Assembly appoints Dr. Teo Petrin as Minister of Economy, Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Mr. Jakob Presečnik, Minister of Transport and Dr. Paul Gantar, Minister of Information Society." We vote on the proposal. 81 Members and Members are present. Who's behind the proposal? [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. [[Let's hear it.]] I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. She'll be the first to swear. Tea Petrin, Minister of Economy. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u70	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u71	Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u72	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u73	Mr. Jakob President, Minister of Transport. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u74	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u75	Dr. Pavel Gantar, Minister for the Information Society. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u76	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u77	I congratulate the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of all Members and Members, on their appointment and wish them to carry out this difficult duty successfully. Would any of the newly appointed special words please? I guess not. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting in five minutes. She will continue to hold the meeting, Madam Vice-President. Please take five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u78	Colleagues, I very kindly ask you to take our seats because the time is already late and there are two more agenda items waiting for us. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm asking you to put your cards in. Since the meeting was suspended, let us rediscover our presence and our ability to make decisions! [[68 present.]] There was no need to press "for" and "against" because, in fact, only by inserting the card did we ensure sufficient presence so that we could conclude the valid one. Allow me to send you a message that he remains for a magnetogram, namely, Mr Lojze Peterlet's service, that, given that he has sat in the wrong place at the seat of Dr Andrej Bajuk at the beginning of the meeting, he voted under the name of Dr Andrej Bajuk on a reduced procedure and on the agenda. Mr. Peterle himself communicated this fact and so much for the magnetogram. We're moving to 2. At the agenda item, this is on the proposal of amendments and additions by the Member of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and a summary of the procedure. The proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure was tabled by Mr Rupar. We're starting our first hearing. I ask whether the motioner wishes to take the floor. Here you are, Mr. Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I welcome you. Perhaps at the beginning, as far as this point is concerned, but the presence in this Chamber will be extremely controversial with regard to the determination, because we Members have forgotten the cards in these openings, yet you have noticed a presence that was not present. That's a warning. The proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I have tabled, is solely to remove some of the dilemmas surrounding the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure concerning the entry into force of the legitimacy of the National Assembly or the establishment of the first meeting. I therefore absolutely reject the allegations that the law has been tabled or amended for delaying the procedures of other amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which were already announced at the time, but are now in procedures. Already in my previous mandate, and also at the end of my previous mandate, I was in a dilemma when, in fact, the 20-day deadline laid down in the existing rules of procedure applies. That is why I wanted to set this amendment to a specific date on which it can be understood when mandates are elected or from when to start counting the deadline, but of course it is not only important that Members be guided by it, but also for the election and appointment of other functions. It's two articles. I was speaking of Article 1, and I would like to withdraw my doubts as to when, in fact, the Constituent National Assembly is also established by amendment to this Article. Now, in practice, this was not known, even the opinions of various legal experts were crossed. Everyone was defending their own. By means of this proposal for this amendment, I guarantee or lay down an assurance as to when the National Assembly is being set up. I know that there have been some amendments, which are just as small as these two amendments to the Rules of Procedure. However, I would ask all of you to support these changes, as it is also a matter of better orientation for future generations, both of the deadlines that enter into force for the appointment of the National Assembly and of the constitution alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u80	I thank the motioner for his explanation. The draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure were also considered by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission on the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. President, Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to add or point out only three matters to the report which you have received in writing. In considering the proposed amendments, the proposer was, unfortunately, not present at the meeting of the Commission. However, it was the wish of the members and members of the Commission to seek, by amending the Rules of Procedure, to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court requiring that the State assembly in the Rules of Procedure decide or arrange for the establishment of a minimum time limit for the State Council to give its views on matters at an extraordinary meeting and on a rapid and reduced procedure. Unfortunately, we failed to do so, so this matter remains open. I'm already asking for a mag. A visionary who has the proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure in turn to try to comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court in the preparation of amendments to the Rules of Procedure. At the meeting, an amendment of the home working body was adopted to delete Article 2 of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure and to maintain the current arrangements in Article 11, namely, that the National Assembly shall be constituted at its first meeting, at which more than half of the mandates sent are confirmed. With the necessary two-thirds majority of the present members, the Commission has adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to consider and adopt a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure [[EPA 28-3]] Mr. Paul Rupar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your explanation. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written applications for the debate, so the discussions will be limited to five minutes. As I note that no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the amendment proposal and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to this Rules of Procedure will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. So let me ask you to check, however, whether one of our colleagues who is absent has no card inserted and thus his assured presence. Thank you very much for your kindness. I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Because you don't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. I put Article 1 to the vote. 69 Members and Members are present. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to this Article, namely the amendment of the parent working body to delete Article 2. Anybody want a word? Because you don't want to, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 2 to delete Article 2. Let's vote. 71 Members and Members are present. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 2 has been deleted. I'm putting Article 3 into the debate. Anybody want a word? Because you don't want us to go to decision-making. I put Article 3 to the vote. Let's vote. 71 Members and Members are present. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want to discuss it? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. Let's vote on the title of the Rules of Procedure. 71 Members and Members are present. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the title of the Rules of Procedure has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. I note that a second reading amendment to Article 2 has been adopted to the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone wish to discuss the draft act in its entirety or to table an amendment to Article 2? Because he does not want to, we are moving on to a full vote on the Rules of Procedure. We vote on amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 71 Members and Members are present. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving to three. It's on love and naming. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will address the proposals of the 15th resolutions submitted to the assembly by the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission. You received them by letter of 11.1.2001 and today on the bench. We're moving on to consideration and decision-making. In this regard, I propose that we discuss all the motions for resolutions together and then vote on each proposal for a resolution separately. Anyone would like a word on this proposal? Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, at its 3rd extraordinary meeting, addressed the proposals of the parliamentary groups concerning changes in membership in individual working bodies, namely three parliamentary groups: the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the Social Democratic Parties of Slovenia and New Slovenia. We have also harmonised the texts of the decrees of those working bodies which are bound by the amendment of the Government Act that has entered into force. I therefore propose that these 14 decrees be adopted by the National Assembly. In the first resumed meeting, the Commission sought, in accordance with an agreement to be reached between the leaders of the parliamentary groups, to adopt other decisions on the establishment of yet unestablished working bodies and delegations on international organisations and institutions. We regret the view of the lack of time and the view of the majority of the members of the Commission that this point should be terminated, this has failed and will be decided by the KVIAZ in the second suspension of the extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission for the introductory explanation. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Before giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you that, taking into account the current practice of dealing with the motions for resolutions, it is only possible to table amendments to those points of decision which determine the powers and tasks of the individual working body. Any proposals for a change in the composition of the working body need to be coordinated in advance at a meeting of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, and therefore cannot be submitted directly to the National Assembly as such. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's a little bit of ambiguity. I would still ask Mr. Puck to explain it to us again. Since we have in writing that you are withdrawing only the appointment of one commission, we are interested in what is going on with everyone else, defence, etc., which have not been coordinated or on which the opposition is still ultimatum. In the event that those commissions that have not been agreed on, I must also say on behalf of the other Members of the Social Democratic Party that we will withdraw the nominations ourselves, ask for an end to the point and, until further coordination, of course, announce the obstruction. We would like the appointment process to be properly conducted, in order to take account of those committees which are not or which are required by the opposition, otherwise we will consider that we are being played by the parties who form the position. I would therefore ask you once again if you could tell us exactly what we are voting on and what is withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u87	Thank you, for your word. I would add this only to the comment or explanation of the Member of Parliament, Mr Rupar, that the mother body of KVIAZ was being considered, but then concluded that all proposals for the appointment of working bodies were being considered at a meeting of the National Assembly on 25 January precisely because of these complications, which had already been mentioned by fellow Member Rupar. This would fully address them at the then meeting. That's another reason. The parent body is, of course, one that must address the proposals of individual parliamentary groups. In such a short time, it has not been possible to draw up harmonised proposals, but especially if we want to do so in a responsible way, to place the members of the working bodies of the people who are familiar with these matters on a personal level, and in such a short time, these procedures could not be carried out. This could cast a shadow on the appointment of members of the working bodies. I therefore have a procedural proposal that this item, with regard to the appointment or adoption of decisions on the appointment of members of working bodies, should not be considered at today's meeting, but be considered in full in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u88	Allow me to explain earlier the president of the working body, then Mr Tone Anderlich, and then I will put a procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you. Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member! I would just like to say that the Commission has proposed the adoption of those two decisions, which were also voted on at the committee itself or at the meeting itself. This is undeniable, it comes from a magnetogram and the meeting was suspended at the time when we moved to the debate on the composition of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances into a broader debate, where a procedural proposal was then drawn up to break the point. If the assembly decides not to vote on the composition of this working body, nor does it vote on the composition of another supervisory working body, then this is an indisputable decision or a completely correct decision of the national assembly. However, I believe that it is correct and that is why the date of the correction of the initial report was also transmitted to the assembly what was adopted until the suspension of the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u91	Of course, a man would have believed this naive story if he hadn't been with him all along. Whether there's a will or not, I don't care at this point. However, I must say that I have actually recovered today when I listened to some reinterpretations of events from a few days ago and even a reinterpretation of events that took place at about nine o'clock this morning, but of course at half past four and are happening now. I simply cannot accept this procedural proposal. KVIAZ adopted 15 decrees in the morning, 15 decrees at 9 a.m., which you have at this point, adopted at 4:30 p.m. two more decrees and then we adjourned the debate. You're suggesting we give all this ad act. In no way is everything that we have done in this national assembly disputed. I regret to quote Mr Brejc's statement of 21 December 2000. Mr Brejc said to the Commission: "We note that there is not yet a final agreement on how the working bodies of the National Assembly will be composed, but we express our readiness to take the appropriate seats in the supervisory bodies of Parliament, so that we will not give us names today." On the same day, the National Assembly adopted two decrees, with the presence of Mr Peterlet, Mr Drobnic, etc. in the hall. These two decrees were published in the Official Journal. It reads: 'The Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance shall have a President, a Vice-President and seven members. In the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances, the New Slovenia Group has one member, the Socialist Party's delegation of two members." An identical decree has also been adopted for the Commission to oversee security and intelligence services. After the meeting yesterday and when we agreed that the assembly could continue rounding up the working bodies, establishing working bodies and appointing the necessary permanent delegations to international organisations and institutions. 23. As I am aware, the first session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe begins this year. You assess whether it is right for that delegation to walk from the previous term of office. It is true that, six months after the end of their term of office, those Members who have been re-elected without the National Parliament having verified their mandate have the possibility of going there and representing their interests. If this is right and given that it is about half of the new Parliament, you will assess it yourself. Our intention was to do it in a package yesterday. We also agreed on which two delegations will lead the part of the opposition made up of SDS and Nova Slovenija. It's all kind of in a package. I agree that from now on - because today the Committee on Foreign Policy and so on - needed some consultations and some other things to be able to make quality proposals for candidates. In no way do I accept the ultimatums, nor have I yet, until today, thought that the opposition in the capacity of SDS and New Slovenia has set anyone an ultimatum. Mr. Rupar said it was an ultimatum that hasn't been removed from I don't know where. I don't know. Gentlemen, of course it's hard, but I'm not going to say now that it's hard if someone's involved, it's hard if someone doesn't cooperate all the time. For example, yesterday, Mr Brejc and Mr Bayuk spoke, and we uncontestedly - there were about eight of us, ten - agreed. Today, undisputedly, the Foreign Policy Committee has agreed unanimously, except when Mr Jelinčič had certain different proposals, everything else has gone smoothly through, and this issue has then been brought into line, with regard to membership and representation in the Slovenian part of the Association Committee in the European Union accession process. Everything was - and this, I think at one time - harmonised in the structure, to the end. Obviously, one detail later, until the meeting of Kviaz in the interpretation, I am talking about the interpretation from December 21st through yesterday's discussion and today's first part of Kviaz, and the Foreign Policy Committee to this final action in Kviaz, has changed this matter. Even more, we did it in one piece. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Yeah, that's probably the end of it, yeah. Okay. I'm just saying, for no ultimatum, I didn't think it was going to work. Every time, for two months, I thought it was about talking about how to split it. Of course, I don't think the proposal you made is correct. It is about the fact that, for example, liberal democracy, when Minister Kopač was elected minister, was left without a president and the committee was left without a president, and it would be right to replace, and those fifteen decrees from this morning are complete; including, of course, those first two who were properly executed, prepared - defence and control of security and intelligence services. However, I agree that we can talk about that work separately.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u92	Mr. Anderlich, please. Thank you very much. Mr Jelko Kacin, only allow me to ask Mr Drobnič - in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I would ask you to clarify or complete your proposal, because if you propose on behalf of the Group of Members, you can propose, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the debate and decision on the matter be postponed to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe I was unclear about the definition of the proposal, and now I'm fixing it. My proposal concerns conclusions or consideration, the part of the hearing relating to the afternoon part of the Kviaz meeting. That's not what this is about in the morning. I didn't make myself clear. I have to explain this. Therefore, my proposal, as a proposal from the New Slovenia Group, refers to the afternoon part of the decisions we have taken in this way, as I have already explained. The decisions taken by Kviaz until the interruption, i.e. in the morning, have no comments and are not relevant. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. That means you're withdrawing this procedural proposal. Then let us clarify which decrees should not be voted on, which were given to us on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u95	The proposals that were made this afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u96	Given that the matter would be clear, please name them so that things would not be unclear in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u97	Just a minute. Decision amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, as already proposed by the President of the Commission, is a decree amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence and amending the Decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much for explaining. It is said that I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of Social Democracy to postpone the vote on the decrees to the next meeting of the National Assembly, namely the decree on the supervision of security and intelligence services, then the Committee on Defence and Budgetary Control and other public finances. I put this proposal to the vote. Presence! [[72 present.]] For the proposal to decide on the three decisions I have put forward, I apologize. [[...]] It went off the screen too fast. Just give me a moment to announce the outcome of the vote. There are 72 Members and Members present. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Lois Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u99	The question is this. In the wake of Mr Drobnic's performance, some have received the floor and he wanted an explanation while making a procedural proposal. Now I propose that if, say, one side had a chance to give its view of what was going on, the other side should have it; it has not had it or has not done it so far. Secondly, I believe and follow a procedural proposal that it was probably not clear to everyone why we have voted now or what we are talking about. So we propose that those 14 decisions, which only concern changes, be made. How?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u100	Allow Mr. Lois Peterle to finish, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u101	the outcome of the vote, that therefore the proposal of the gentleman was not supported. [[...]] Not to vote on these three today, so this is now a problem, because this matter has been in the package since the beginning, and if this package, which was reconfirmed next to Kviaz, has been reconfirmed and we have said no further, until we resolve the whole thing, if this agreement has failed now, which is continuity, non-compliance with the agreements, then we do not see the need to stay here. We are for 14 because it is personal change because of the new ministers, but not for the three because there was no package agreement, in line with the agreements. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Peterle, you said you had a procedural proposal and I have not been able to identify it anywhere during this implementation. If you'll please explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u103	I propose that we decide today only 14 decrees for working bodies which have been harmonised and which require changes on government or government change, because of personal changes, not because of structural changes, and that we postpone the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain, Mr. Lois Peterle. At the beginning of the meeting, the National Assembly adopted a agenda which, as point 3, provided for the treatment of the decisions, namely the decrees, which were harmonised in one way also in Kwiaz. At the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democracy of Slovenia, we have now put to the vote a proposal that the decisions for which the composition of the members of the working bodies has not been harmonised should be moved to a regular meeting. I put this decree to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and was not adopted. So I can no longer put a proposal to the vote. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u105	Procedurally. On behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I ask for two hours of recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u106	Mr. Rupar, we can make a deal, maybe for a shorter consultation before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u107	So I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, if I were in my own, then I'd say I could say about ten minutes less, but I have this instruction and I have to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u108	Since it's ten o'clock, shall I put a motion to the vote to continue tomorrow or today? [[No, no, ……]] So, I'm hanging up, and we're moving on to ten to ten, until 10:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If you don't mind, I'll give you a message from the President of the National Assembly. He's asking us to wait a few more minutes, somewhere supposed to be up to 22 and 10 minutes, because he's still in line with the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. Dear Members, I respectfully ask that you come to the Chamber and those who are still here to continue the meeting that we have interrupted. Please kindly let's put the cards in place to see if we're done. [[50 present.]] The assembly shall be concluded and may decide thereafter. In view of the fact that we have concluded the general debate, I ask Mr Rupar whether he wishes to express the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democracy of Slovenia after consultation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the joint meeting of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party, we agreed to insist, however, that we continue to hold the majority of the opposition in both supervisory committees. That, of course, it is necessary to say that we have been played again and again. That it was coordinated. This was also confirmed by the President of the National Assembly. That the demands of the opposition would please. Of course, it's not fair to do that. Of course, we are aware of what power means, we are also aware of the situation, but we are still convinced that the supervision of such important supervisory committees must still be in hand to serve proper control, otherwise with various votes and other matters, the ruling coalition can do what it wants. What Mr Anderlich read, of course, is true, this has been published in an official paper on the composition of the Committee for the Control of Finance and Budget Consumption, but never with the consent of the opposition. As far as I know, this has been controversial all the time, and since that December 21st, these complications have also arisen around the acquisition or majority of members of the opposition species. Of course, we are still offering our hand, or we are ready to make a deal, and we are still ready to give in again. We therefore propose that, in these three decisions on the programme, we decide next time that Kviaz should once again and once again decide. Of course, we are also expecting a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly earlier. We also appeal to its authority to domain and to do as you wish. To the extent that it is unacceptable to insist that only a handful of opposition Members and Members of the two Committees are in agreement with New Slovenia, we withdraw all proposals, all candidates for the seat of the two Committees and the committee on which it is decided. This is the position of both groups of Members and, of course, I hope you understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we have concluded the general debate, I would like to explain two things to you, Mr Rupar, that Kviaz has withdrawn from the proposal for a decision on the Committee of State for Budgetary Control and other public finances today. Your second suggestion to withdraw members is not possible in this part where we are now. Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate and are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First of all, let us vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the election of the President and the members of the Council of State of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Below two, we are voting on a motion for a decree amending the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the above-mentioned motion for a decision? [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 3 we are voting on a motion for a decision amending the decision on the election of the President and four members of the Commission under the law on the non-compatibility of carrying out a public function with a profitable activity. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who's behind that decision? [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 4 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who's behind that decision? [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 5 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the above-mentioned motion for a decision? [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 6 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. 65 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the proposed decree? [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 7 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. 66 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the proposed decree? [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 8 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture, forestry and nutrition. There are six Members and Members present. We're voting on the ruling. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 9 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy. 66 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the ruling. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 10, we are voting on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. 66 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 11 we are voting on the proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. 66 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the ruling. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 12 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence. 66 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the ruling. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 13 we vote on a motion for a decree amending the decision establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for health, work, family, social policy and disabled persons. 66 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the ruling. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under 14 we vote on the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. We're voting. There are six Members and Members present. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing a commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the work of security and intelligence services. I apologize, Mr Pahor would like an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u112	I'll vote in favour and I'd like to explain why. First. I do not have a mandate to speak on behalf of the four parliamentary groups, and I do not speak as President, but as one who has participated in the coordination that has made a compromise today, which has almost enabled us to solve the complications we are facing. Well, I hope that this is not definitively over and that this option still exists by the end of January. It is not exactly what is stated in the statement adopted by the two groups of Members, and I must say that I hoped that the Group would withdraw this statement because this was also explained in the consultation we had just had. I don't think it's about disrespecting the agreements, and we've all been following them, and we've been looking very unwittingly also now for ways not to force ourselves into a vote that would embarrass one side or the other, but we would only find a way if we were in breach of the rules of procedure. That is not what we wanted, and because it was said that, because it was so concluded, we must vote on the proposals that are given, and that is what we are doing now. Then we had two options, either to vote in favour or against. I think everyone can do it at their own discretion. I'm going to vote yes, and that's so that there's no feeling that my voice "against" means that I actually have a bad conscience and I don't respect the agreements. The agreements were respected and I think it would be "fair" if even opposition colleagues admitted that, as one of the co-workers involved in this coordination, I had done everything in my power to reach an agreement. I think that what is written is not "fair", I hope that colleagues from the two parliamentary groups will withdraw this statement and by the end of January allow us to finally, after the great suffering and great efforts of all of us, achieve the victory of all the parliamentary groups and establish a national assembly as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Repeat. We vote on the motion for a ruling. There are 67 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] During the vote, we cannot accept procedural proposals. If you'd like to explain your vote before the next decision I intend to announce, I'd like you to report to me then. I'm sorry. I think we're done here. So I'm closing this agenda item, and we're done voting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u114	Procedurally. It doesn't matter to me whether you vote or not, I'm procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u116	Well, I apologize, but the vote was carried out very quickly. Maybe it's our fault because we weren't paying attention. My card was in the voting room and I would ask if we could repeat the vote because I didn't want to vote. But before you wait, I made a mistake and left the card in the voting machine, and I wanted to be away from it, just like my colleagues. [[...]] Before that, however, we wanted to predict the obstruction foretold. However, you went to the vote a little too quickly, and I could not express this on behalf of the two groups. I would therefore ask if we could repeat the vote first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u117	I am putting Mr Rupar's procedural proposal to the vote. The proposal is to repeat the vote. We're voting on the proposal. 65 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 20.]] The proposal is adopted, which means we are re-voting the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the work of security and intelligence services. You want to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u118	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u119	There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 41.) [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That concludes it. [[...]] Mr. Jelko Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u120	Honourable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues! I have a procedural proposal to continue our work with two important bodies. The first body is the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I don't think there is a Member or Member in this Chamber who doesn't know that the debate has already been postponed twice on the subject of "The Guardians of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and Sarajevo". This debate will take place within ten days and it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to form a permanent delegation and be adequately teamed and also equipped with the position of the National Assembly, as it would not be helpful to discuss human rights violations in Slovenia, Slovenia and this National Assembly. Secondly, an important working body is the Association Committee, which, together with the European Parliament, must monitor the adaptation of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the European Union. Let me draw your attention to the letter you have from all the leaders of the parliamentary groups that the meeting has just been cancelled. We have free deadlines to reserve, but the prerequisite for us to be able to start talking to the European work of the Joint Committee is that we form our part of the Association Committee. We agreed on the names. Today, the Foreign Policy Committee has reached agreement on the composition of both the delegation and the Association Committee, and we need only the continuation of the Kviaz, which confirms the composition of these two bodies and we decide on that. If there is any need or new knowledge in the following, the composition of these two bodies may also be further altered. However, they would provide procedural opportunities to fix the dates of the first joint meeting of the Association Committee. Please, Madam President, put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. At this point, I note that given that the proposal by Kviaz for the working body and the delegation is not in the form you have put forward of a procedural proposal, I cannot put it to the vote. I could put to the vote a proposal to meet Kviaz and decide. Unfortunately, the National Assembly in this form cannot decide on this procedural proposal, as you have put it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u122	So, first of all, I thank you for confirming Kviaz and thus my role, and at the same time inform you that I will not call on Kviaza today and that there is no way to vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u123	This will be decided by the National Assembly. Mr. Jelko Kacin, would you like to complete your proposal? Because Mr Kacin does not wish to supplement his proposal twice, I have asked you, Mr Kacin, whether you wish to complete your procedural proposal. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u124	I'm supplementing my proposal. I propose that we suspend the meeting to convene Kviaz; whether or not President Kviaza will do so is a matter of his decision. However, I ask that the National Assembly decide and support this procedural proposal, which has been supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u125	Thank you. I am putting to the vote the proposal to suspend the meeting to convene Kviaz and prepare a proposal for the composition of two working bodies. I'm putting the motion to a vote. There are 55 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 12.]] I'm breaking up. I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted, so I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and continuing at 23.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-11-SDZ3-Izredna-04.ana.u126	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I ask you politely if we take our seats and by inserting a card, we find out if we are concluding that we can proceed. Presence! [[56 present.]] Which means the National Assembly is concluded and can proceed. I note that, until the agreed hour, that is to say, within 23.15 minutes, Kviaz did not submit to the National Assembly proposals for two decrees, namely a decree establishing the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee and a decree on the election of the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I therefore propose that the State Assembly vote on the President's proposal below, namely: Kviaz submits proposals for both rulings before the regular meeting of the National Assembly on 25.1.2001. We are voting on the President's proposal. There are 59 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda and thus on the 4th extraordinary session. Thank you for your attention and good night.
