ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Good day at the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting with the following colleagues: Anton Delak, Pavel Rupar, Mario Gasparini, Villa Trofenik from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., Andrej Vizjak and Roberto Battelli. Please, by inserting a card into the voting device, we will determine the conjunctivities. There are 52 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Court of Auditors, the representative of the Court of Justice, the candidate for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Nevenko Cukon-Mavec and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everything between us. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, as we concluded on Friday, will begin with the consideration of the 40th item of the agenda - elections and appointments. After the end of this meeting, we will decide which point we will lead the debate on. So we move on to 40. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. Under this item of the agenda, we will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposal by the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the six proposals by the Council of Justice on the election of judges and the appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court and the nine proposals by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs on changes in the decisions on the establishment of working bodies and the establishment of working bodies of the Council. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. Before that, I should be allowed to alert my colleagues and colleagues to the agreement on the non-use of mobile phones in the Chamber. We will first address the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Milan Kučan, President of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted a proposal for the appointment of mags to the National Assembly. Mitje Gaspari for the Governor of Banka Slovenije. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for a resolution. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representative of the secretariat is not yet among us. I'm asking the candidate, Mr. Mag. Mitjo Gaspari, if he wants to speak to the National Assembly. He does. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. In a short presentation, I would like to mention only some of the essential things that I see as important elements in the management of good monetary policy in the Republic of Slovenia in the coming period. Under the first point, I would like to say that the operation of the Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, during the period following its independence, has enabled such a development in this area, which at the moment gives the opportunity to continue this process peacefully and qualitatively in the vicinity of Slovenia and in the final integration of Slovenia into the European Union. A national currency, all basic instruments and policies in this area were introduced in quality and a banking system that is now sound and capable of further development was satisfactorily organised, both competitive and otherwise at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. In its field, the Bank of Slovenia has also established a wide range of international alliances, contacts and memberships that enable the Republic of Slovenia and this institution to represent its interests in Europe and beyond in the world in a qualitative and equitable manner to other Member States of international financial organisations. This is why recognition goes to the Bank of Slovenia and to the Governor and to the Bank of Slovenia world, which, together with the Governor, has developed this policy and the system. I see the policy of the central bank and its operation further, not as opposed to what it has been, but rather as an upgrade to what is required by the new circumstances in which Slovenia will be in the coming years. In particular, it is about the integration of Slovenia into the European Union, on the one hand, which, of course, is not a major or exclusively Banka Slovenije project, but the whole Republic of Slovenia, with Parliament and the Government at the head, as well as the inclusion later in the single monetary space, for which Banka Slovenije, of course, assumes the main responsibilities and tasks for which this process can be carried out effectively and for the benefit of both citizens and the economy of the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, I think it is the most important three sets of tasks or obligations of the Bank of Slovenia. Firstly, an appropriate addition and adoption of legislation in this area, which will be in line with the legislation of the European Central Bank. This means the adoption of a new law on the Bank of Slovenia. The current law has served well over the past ten years and has allowed the Bank of Slovenia to play its own role towards other institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and to manage monetary policy independently. What the European Central Bank will require and include in this system is the complete independence of the Slovenian Central Bank from other branches of government in the Republic of Slovenia under the Statute of the European Central Bank, and the exclusive commitment to the goal of low inflation, or the reduction of inflation, as the basic objective of monetary policy, as long as this is a tolar, of course, when Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union, and in the euro area. At that time, the Republic of Slovenia will have to achieve a comparable rate of inflation and interest rates that will allow for integration into the system I have mentioned. The transition to a lower level of inflation than ever before, at least to the level shown by the European Union countries or the highest inflation European monetary system countries, which ranges between 3% and 4% at the worst, should be the direct objective of both the central bank and governments in the next three years, at most if Slovenia wants to keep up that step with the timetable it set to become a member of the European Union, a full member with ratified agreements in 2004. If all things are going to go smoothly, it will be possible to become a member of the European Monetary Union within about two to three years, as set out in the rules of the European Union. In order for this law to be adopted, the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must reach an agreement on the basic starting points of this new regime. I hope that the National Assembly will carry out this work in the second half of this year, as foreseen by the Yearbook and also presented to the European Union before the time. In this law, you will first and foremost determine what the core objectives and tasks of the central bank will be, which will change as I mentioned, that the basic objective will become inflation, and secondly, with this basic objective, sustainable economic growth, but only for the central bank as a subordinate objective of reducing inflation. On the other hand, the central bank will be able to lead a world composed only of professional experts; the European Union does not allow membership in the world of the central bank to persons who are not professionally employed in the central bank or who are from academic circles and do not have a conflict of interest in the area covered by the central bank as members of the world. In addition, the law will also have to provide for the process of transition to another currency, which is the euro, and of course also the transfer of certain functions of the central bank to the European Central Bank, which then becomes the Slovenian central bank of the bank, as is the case with the current twelve members of the European monetary area. It is important for the central bank - and here I do not think that there is a dilemma - that the central bank must respect the objective prescribed by law, as I said, in particular the reduction of inflation and, on the other hand, independent of the use of instruments so that this objective can be achieved in practice. Thus, the central bank must not be hampered by any rules in the use of money control instruments and foreign exchange rates. Another important issue at this time is how the central bank will manage monetary policy. In order for the Central Bank to manage inflation reduction policy as a priority objective, it will have to use those instruments that it has at its disposal, notably money control in circulation and foreign exchange exchange rate policy. In this case, of course, the central bank can influence inflation reduction by combining these measures, but in itself cannot achieve this objective independently, without cooperation or appropriate coordination in the area of fiscal policy, income policy and pricing policy in the part which the state still controls. This should also take into account the fact that Slovenia is opening up capital and financially in line with its efforts to join the European Union and that, as a result, the impact from the outside world on the conditions of management in Slovenia will be increasingly flexible. Slovenia alone will not be able to influence events coming from abroad many times, as it did last year with changes in oil prices. The capital flows and outflows will also become more dynamic, given that the barriers to these outflows and tides are increasing and will be completely eliminated in the short term. For this reason, it is of course essential that Banka Slovenije has this option, flexibility, in order to reduce the negative effects on the domestic economy during the course until full membership. However, I have already mentioned an internal restriction that could have an impact on the fact that these forces could not be fully implemented. It is too fast to increase wages, too little savings and the uncoordinated movement of those prices that the country will still control until full relaxation. On this basis, of course, it is the task of the Governor and the world of Banka Slovenije to continue to try to find such a combination of exchange rate measures and the amount of money in circulation that will allow this inflation to fall to between 3 and 4% per year in two to three years. As the Republic of Slovenia is increasingly closer to the European Union or will be included in it, the tasks of the Bank of Slovenia and its powers will gradually be diminished as delpo-authorisation will be transferred by law and system to the European Central Bank. What will remain with the Bank of Slovenia in the future, regardless of its full membership, will be its control, supervisory function over the banking system. In this case, I think it will be necessary to upgrade the Bank of Slovenia's well-functioning supervisory function now, especially in the coming years, because the opening of the financial market will have a significantly greater impact on banks' operations on the Slovenian market, both by foreign and domestic banks and will therefore be an important element of the stability of the financial system and its development. The appropriate privatisation of banks that are state-owned when they occur must be taken into account - and in doing so the central bank has this role to influence it, in particular, must take into account the elements of stability and the robustness of the banking system, which will be able to react and respond to the always negative effects that come from the external environment. Banka Slovenije is an independent and independent institution in its work, by law and by statute, which obliges both members of the Council and the Governor to follow only one policy, and this is the policy of the Central Bank Council or until the Bank of Slovenia law changes, including those requirements or tasks that can be determined by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Bank of Slovenia at this time. If I can finally say one more thing. If I am given to lead this institution, then I would like to cooperate with the National Assembly in such a way that Banka Slovenije will present its policy at least once a year to the National Assembly, so that, at the time of such a policy presentation, there can also be a discussion or different opinions on whether this policy also means a good performance for the National Assembly and others, and that, of course, the Central Bank or Banka Slovenije will be able to face both the work programme and the plans that the Government is drawing up in the budget, with what the Bank of Slovenia will also present. In my opinion, however, the difficulty in designing some policies is likely to move on to the central bank in the coming years, especially with regard to setting the inflation target, and, of course, if the government wants these policies to be harmonised, it will also have to follow this objective accordingly with its actions. If it does not follow this, then there may be a conflict of interest between the various economic policy institutions. The Bank of Slovenia will have to insist on its objectives of limiting the amount of money. If other policies do not follow this, the liquidity deficit of many operators in the economy will occur. Therefore, I think that coordination between the work of the central bank and those of the state or government concerned with basic economic policies is essential. Globally, it has proved to be better than coordination, which does not mean subordination, and the overall results of economic policy are better. Only a footnote to the international financial circumstances accompanying today's presentation and current economic developments. We are faced with some critical developments in the global economy. On the one hand, it is difficult to identify the trends in the coming months and years in the United States as the most important economic entity in the world. At present, it would be difficult to find a majority opinion on whether the situation in the United States is improving or worsening. It is to be hoped that the opinion of those who say that the temporary economic crisis will end in this year is more correct, as there will be more serious impacts, of course through stagnant developments in the American economy in Europe. On the other hand, it is a fear of prolonged recession in Japan, which, with its contacts and economic contacts with much of Asia, both far and medium, can also lead to crisis impacts on the European area. I therefore believe that it is important that such an economic policy, especially in this area of fiscal and income policy, be able to adapt to this situation as flexibly and as quickly as possible in Slovenia. For monetary policy, however, I think that, as I mentioned at the outset, fighting inflation and, on the other hand, preventing the negative effects which might have very different fluctuations in capital flows to Slovenia in the next period. I commit myself to following these objectives and principles, whether or not they will always be in the interest of other aspects of economic policy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Mitja Gaspari, the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Representatives of the parliamentary groups, first of all colleague Janez Podobnik, will present their views on the appointment, followed by colleague Dr. Andrej Bajuk and colleague Lojza Peterle. Please, my colleague Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, the distinguished candidate for Governor, the so-called fellow Member of the Mags. Gaspari! A few days ago, Miha Jenko wrote in the Saturday annex of Work: "The appointment of a man who will lead the Slovenian central bank between 2001 and 2007 will probably be the most outstanding human resources decision in our country this year." And the following sentence: "Also, because Governor Arhar has become one of the rare political first-class economics in the ten years leading the Bank of Slovenia, and he is obviously also in the position of a strong political and financial personality." It's all said and done. It is also understandable that such a decision is at the heart of the interest of each parliamentary group, including the SLS + SKD - Slovenian People's Party. When I had the honour and opportunity to present our position to the President of the country, I was, apparently, the only direct one that I made clear that we do not see exactly any reason for the successful conduct of Banka Slovenije after ten years of success - this is an international enforcement, great domestic credibility, a solid Slovenian tolar, the credibility of this institution and the impartiality of this institution - so that the successful, good Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Arhar, who would like to do so, therefore there are no reasons for this exchange to be done, so that for the next six years Dr. Arhar continues to lead Banka Slovenije. However, the accompanying letter from the President of the country shows that, on the basis of a discussion with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, he assessed that he had a political advantage and a majority in the national assembly of the candidate mags. Gaspari. The explanation also says at the outset that the President of the State also addressed the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšek, and that Dr Janez Drnovšek had evaluated, that is, him personally and not the government, perhaps it would be good for the government to define the issue, not the Prime Minister, so that Drnovšek is evaluating and giving priority to the candidate mags. Gasparium. I will reiterate my position, which I have represented both with the President of the State and with the Election, Appointment and Administrative Affairs Commission. The key question is whether the proposed candidate, a respected fellow Member of the Magi. The Gaspari, which we appreciate as a proper Member, a working, credible person, is a better candidate after all his previous references. France Arhar. We must admit that, together with the President of the country, we have been embarrassed to justify this "improvement". What's he better at? Or in the profession or in international references, or in its work so far? She's embarrassed. Let the one who made her hurt her. We will speak honestly, with all due respect for the Mags. Gasparium. Undoubtedly, Dr. Arhar’s professional decisions cannot be seen, although it is understandable that the independence of the central bank, and especially of the governor, can sometimes be expressed in the way that you resent someone, perhaps the economy, or someone else. But it's in his function. The governor has to blame someone, especially the government, and then he's a good governor. If we want to find reasons for the political activities of one or the other, here I would like to make it clear that we are not in any way questioning the political activities of anyone in this country, then we can only assess that they were in their own way also politically active. However, we will have to admit that if he is running for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, his fellow Member, that is a political function, a large, high political function, which we do not problemise as such. So there can't be a reason. We have heard the reason expressed by Ambassador Tone Anderlič that after some ten years, Dr. Arhar has succeeded or achieved some sort of routine in his work. We answer, this is the routine Slovenia needs. This is a routine that is positive and not negative. So this argument is not going to hold up either. And then we come up with the last argument, which, of course, counts in this House called Parliament, the argument is the political majority. The fact is, the President of the State has estimated that he has a Mag. Gaspari is much more politically supportive than Dr. France Arhar. In our Group of Members, we firmly believe that the question of the election of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is of such a nature that it goes beyond the question of political support. It is a matter of content, of program, of credibility of a person who performs a function. So, in our opinion, it has happened here that the only real reason and argument for Slovenia to have a new personality, political nature, in this important place. Most of the people in the National Assembly are the ones who will support the Magog. Gasparium. This is also what the President of the State assessed. This is certainly a very responsible decision, in particular those who have stressed in particular the expectation that in this case your candidate would be, in particular here, explicitly to the fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that your candidate, for whom you already have 34 votes, will be the one who will receive first the support of the President of the State and then the support of the National Assembly. The responsibility and wisdom is to give 34 votes to the best candidate, not to your candidate. We are firmly convinced that this would be the right way. We've decided on a different path. It is clear, therefore, that - once again, I can quote Miha Jenk's record - a politically moderate conservative will replace a politically moderate 'liberal'. One of the issues that remains at the centre of the governorship is independence: independence of the governor, independence of the central bank. It is true that it is the Council of the Central Bank who professionally covers and directs the work of the governor. But his personality, his determination, his criticalness, and his intransigence are the ones that seal this function. Here we can be concerned that the fact that monetary and fiscal policy will meet in the same hands could only be a poor journey to perform this function. As it is said, the letter from the President of the State shows that he has a mag. Gaspari provided a political majority in the National Assembly. It would be good and wise for an agreement and consensus to be reached so that there would be no vote against the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. It is clear from the debate and the forecast that, unfortunately, the candidate will not be elected unanimously or with as much majority as possible. So allow me to expect him to be a magician. Gaspari received majority support in the National Assembly, I express the expectation of our parliamentary group. We expect that from your mouth, Mr Gaspari, as Governor of Banka Slovenije, we will often hear the beautiful Slovenian word "saving". That's the word that comes to every governor. We expect you, Mr Gaspari, to continue the positive legacy of Dr. Arhar, which is called the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. We also expect proper and successful cooperation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. I give the floor to my colleague, Dr Andre Bajuk, who will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. On behalf of the Socialists' Group, a colleague, Janez Janša, applied for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Early this month, we were invited by the leaders of the parliamentary groups to speak to the President of the State about the candidate for the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. After a thorough discussion in our parliamentary group, we decided to propose a candidate for Dr. Boris Pleskovic. We hoped that after the list of candidates had been drawn up, the President of the State would open a larger debate on the steel leaf, not so quickly as he did. The most important task of the Governor of Banka Slovenije in the future will certainly be to establish an effective and independent supervisory system over the operation of commercial banks and savings banks. We still do not have such control in Slovenia to adequately ensure the lasting strength of our banking system. Here I must also point out that the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and commercial banks has increased particularly since 1 January this year, because from then on the role of savers is no longer guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia, but only by our banking system. Banka Slovenija will have to carry out bank reviews more thoroughly and more frequently, because it is only a guarantee that we will be able to detect possible problems in individual banks early enough. In doing so, it will also be necessary to ensure continuous control of their ongoing operations. We can learn from harsh experiences from abroad what needs to be done to avoid crises in individual banks or even in the entire banking sector.The Slovenian financial market is particularly sensitive because they have started to intertwine with different financial institutions. I would also like to point out that the future Governor will have to take care of the existence and construction of such a system of banks and savings that will remain close to the population and actually play a role in supporting the full growth of our private economy. The concentration of banks and capital would be unacceptable only to large centres. As a result, savings and rural banking exhibitions should be closed. Mag. Mitja Gaspari was Minister of Finance for eight years. These were the years when Slovenia should carry out a number of concrete projects in the area of finance. In his two terms, he got mag. Gaspari twice interpolation, which was not voted out, which, of course, speaks to him in his favor. However, we are concerned that they have been interpolated on the basis of solid evidence. We must all be aware that the Governor of Banka Slovenije must be a source of credibility and trust for the entire system. And these two virtues are shown mainly through the traversed path. We are therefore very concerned that, during his term as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, he may still have to explain some of his decisions in the past. Slovenia needs a governor who will be able to devote his time exclusively to resolving the open issues of our common future. It is precisely because of this proposal that the President of the country does not support the new Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague of Dr. Andrey Bayuk. Mr Janša has the floor to present the views of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Once again, I warn you that the use of mobile phones is not allowed and that undiscreet reading of daily newspapers disturbs speakers. Please take this into account. Comrade Janš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Candidate! Today, the National Assembly decides on an extremely important subject. Thirdly, in the history of parliamentary democracy, Parliament has decided to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The ratio of forces that had emerged before this decision came on the agenda was such that at the end there were two candidates who had practically been decided by the applicant. The fact is that in these consultations held by the President of the State, only names were spoken of, never about the programme - the candidates are also not obliged by law to submit programmes - and that both candidates who eventually remained as favorites in this game or who have been from the beginning have come with support from the government coalition. No government party, at least that is what was said during the talks with the President of the State, has expressed any criticism of the work of the current Governor, Dr Arhar. Everyone praised him, and the President of the country himself said a lot of praise at the expense of the Governor. Yesterday we were able to listen to him in Studio at 5 p.m., where again there were substantial more compliments than Mr Gaspari gave to Mr Arhar for an extremely good work. At the same time, Mr President of the State, who is also a candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, was very critical yesterday of the party's party-cracy, of the fact that the parties own the country and make practical decisions on everything. Of course, just as the president of the country, between the two candidates who both came with support from the government coalition, chose the one who had more political support and not the one he thought he was doing better, he did exactly what he criticized most. In fact, he made his own decision, and he's not going to decide the national council. Given that no party or group from the government coalition, which has almost 70% support here, has substantively defined neither Mr Arhar nor Mr Gaspari, has had a good opinion on both, anyone would have been elected, probably. By choosing one, the proposer has already made a decision. If I proposed to Mr Arhar, Mr Arhar would probably be elected. This is clear after all that we have heard in this process. In this case, it will not be the party that will elect the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, but it will be the President of the country. Whoever he suggested would be named. The fact is that the candidate proposed, although not supported by our Group of Members, enjoys sufficient support, so that he is likely to be elected today. From this point of view, we are asking him the following question. The Governor of Banka Slovenije will have both a moral and a formal impact on the future creation of banking space in Slovenia. The two main banks and the two largest banks in Slovenia have not yet been privatised and in a relatively short time this process will have to be completed, started and completed. Two concepts of this privatisation have emerged in public. One of these two concepts was advocated by the President of the State, who is Mr Gaspari's proponent in public radio yesterday, and this is the concept that banks should privatise themselves in order to essentially become owners of domestic capital or companies from Slovenia. We had something like this at the time both banks got into the biggest troubles where such a form of ownership leads to you giving yourself credit and, of course, you're never real. The other concept is a more open concept, which should be - at least as far as we have read in the coalition contract and in what the Prime Minister has said - a concept that would allow banks to be privatised on, say, a European way and that would allow for the establishment of a normal banking structure in Slovenia as well. In the previous mandate, our Group has introduced a law that has pursued the same objective and which would also allow foreign strategic partners to enter the process. We therefore ask Mr Gaspari, the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, which concept he will support. It was not clear from his opening remarks what his view of these two concepts was. However, in the place in which he will be elected, he will have a remarkable impact on which concept will be realized. We would like to have an answer to this question at the end of this debate, because our decision will depend largely on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Horvat, and he will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his fellow Member, Mr Zmigo Jelinčič, for the national party's parliamentary group and Mr Ciril Pucko for the LDS Group. Please, you have the word of a colleague of Feri Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, the distinguished candidate of the Magi. Mitja Gaspari, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support and support the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect our colleague of mags as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Mitjo Gaspari. I believe that the difficult choice of the president, as he himself admitted or said, was of the two quality candidates, both by professional and by human references. Dr. Arhar has indeed proven himself, we all know, as a successful governor of the central bank. The facts of this are well known to all. Mag. Mitja Gaspari, despite the fact that we have recently heard the emphasis on emerging from politics, undisputed professional references. Let me mention just a few. He worked in Banka Slovenije, leading the analytical sector, which is certainly one of the cores of the expertise of each central bank. He was the Deputy Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, at a time not exactly favored, not even by the part of the central bank, nor by all of us, who had the opportunity to cooperate with him. I must say, according to my modest assessment, he worked professionally and in favour of the Republic of Slovenia. He was valued even then in international financial circles, which is not irrelevant for then, nor for today. Mag. Mitja Gaspari, as finance minister, despite many problems and constraints, was successfully led by the Ministry of Finance, although we were not satisfied with the Member and Members of the previous reference many times, and we were very critical of him from the Consolidated List, especially when we were considering the annual budget, and we were not pleased with him many times, colleagues and ministers in the government, and sometimes not even some economists. However, in view of the role and tasks of the Governor and the Minister of Finance, the criticisms that have flown against him may also be a hallmark, for if he were to please everyone and what now seems to some as fear, this proves that this fear is not justified. The fact is that he has contributed to the stabilisation of the finances of the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, to the regulation of the regulatory system in the field of public finances, as it is under his leadership that key public finance laws have been adopted, starting with the law on public finances and others, not to mention them. It may not be as fast as we wanted, but it was not only up to him, but, after all, it was up to all the governments in which he worked, as well as the Members and Members of the National Assembly. The fact is, he's also like the Minister of Finance. Gaspari was and is valued in international financial circles, which is certainly also important for the performance of the governor. Mr Gaspari's brief statement of priorities and the tasks he gave here a few minutes ago proves that the Mag. The Gaspari is aware of the key tasks of the Bank of Slovenia and the Governor in the new situation, in the coming months and in the coming years, in particular in the process of joining the European Union and integrating into the European Monetary Union. It seems important to me from this short introduction to highlight, if necessary, the cooperation and coordination of macroeconomic policies between the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly. That was in the past, we have to admit, a lot of times a flaw. This is not an eyewitness to the former or to the governor so far, but it is an obvious statement all along, self-critical, even to the government and to the national assembly. I would only remind you of this, and it would be good for the National Assembly to pay more attention to the work of the Central Bank in the future. I only remind you, colleagues and colleagues from previous convocations, that it is customary, when the report of the Central Bank was considered and the plan for the following year, that we have carried out these hearings as a rule very late, even too late, and that these treatments, unfortunately, also substantively, did not deserve the attention of the National Assembly. I believe that in the event that Mr Gaspari will be elected Governor of the Central Bank and that, as a result, this place will be abandoned by Dr France Arhar, the current Governor, that he needs to be acknowledged, commended and thanked for the successful management of the Central Bank. The facts and merits are known to the National Assembly, the professional and the general public, so there is no need to discuss this in more detail. Allow me, however, to thank Mr Arhar, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, for all the great work he has done, and especially for the very proper cooperation he has done with the Group of Members and with us, individual Members, whenever we have shown interest. In doing so, I think it is a very important wish, namely, that the State of Slovenia, especially the Government, as well as the National Assembly and other institutions, make the best use of the rich knowledge, experience and international reputation as well as the connections that Dr. France Arhar has. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague of Ferry Horvat. I give the floor to my colleague Zmaj Jelinčič, who will present the views of the National Party of Slovenia Group of Members. He will be given the floor of his colleague Cyril Pucka, on behalf of the LDS delegation. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About the expertise of former Governor Dr. Arhar and the expertise of the candidate for the new Governor of Mag. Gaspari doesn't need to talk. Both are top experts, as Slovenia would need even more. Dr. Arhar did a great deal in his field as Governor of the National Bank of Slovenia. He has done what many people would not have done, and I thank him for that on behalf of the Slovenian national party. We're just as sure he'll be a magician. Gaspari continued with this work, with this trend, and will continue to consolidate Slovenia's national currency and maintain that course of independence while at the same time connecting with European and global financial structures as Dr. Arhar has set out. Once again, let's thank Dr. Arhar for his work so far and we want mag. Gasparium succeeds in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Victory Jelinchich. A colleague of Cyril Pucka, who will present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, has the floor, followed by a colleague of Peter Levič, a member of the Party of Youth Slovenia. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr candidate, colleagues and colleagues! Any decision taken in the National Assembly shall be political. That is why we have also decided on parliamentary democracy. In this respect, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has already supported the Governor of Francet Arhar twice on a proposal from the President of the State. From this point of view, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia does not deny him anything good in this place and thanks him for it. On the inside, he leads the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in support of the candidate, Mitja Gaspari, in particular: his professional and banking experience, his knowledge, his high international reputation, his independent position as former Finance Minister in the government and his willingness to lead the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the principles presented in the introduction. These are comparable to the policy of state-owned central banks within the European Union. We are confident that today's high support for Members and Members of Parliament will be good travel, encouragement and recognition, not only for his professional reputation, but also for him as a man who puts ethical principles first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, colleague Cyril Pucko. The last person to have the floor as a representative of the parliamentary groups is colleague Peter Levič. It will present the views of the Youth Party's parliamentary group. After that, we will move on to a discussion of colleagues and colleagues. You have the floor, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Respectable. In the Party of Young Slovenia, before the final decision of whom to support and thus vote today, we have interviewed two in our opinion the most suitable candidates for the performance of this responsible function, Dr. Arhar, current governors, and mags. Gasparii. Both convinced us with their knowledge and experience and the vision of Banka Slovenije's leadership and put us in line for a difficult decision. After careful consideration, we've built a mag. Gaspari in the first place. This decision was motivated by several facts. We think he's got magic. Gaspari has enough experience, both at home and abroad. He knows the functioning of the executive, he was a capable finance minister. This can also be said for Dr. Arhar, former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. He ran the Bank of Slovenia well, defended the stability of the Tolar and did not succumb to pressure. However, in the Party of Young Slovenia we believe that after a certain period of time every work becomes routine, there is a lack of motive. The desire to avoid the possible complications and difficulties that President Kučan might have in certifying the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia has led us to take into account also who has the greatest support in the other parties. From the mags. Gasparija is expected to be successful in running the Bank of Slovenia, if it is named, and at least as effective as its predecessor, who has proven to be the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We expect that he will be able to set borders and will not succumb to the pressure of the government, which interests due to the desire to join the European Union will not always be the most friendly to the Slovenian economy and the people of Slovenia. Mr Gaspari, you are taking on a responsible role and I therefore call on you to always take the first place in your work the welfare of Slovenia and all its citizens, not the short-term political interests of individuals and groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. My colleague, Lois Peterle, will be the first of them. Its debate may take an unlimited period, but I limit it to 5 minutes for all others who will apply subsequently, not in writing. You have the floor, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members, distinguished candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. They say that public finances are a mirror for every country. I hope that goes for us, too. Today we are deciding on one of the key national functions. The Bank of Slovenia is undoubtedly dependent on the money and to a large extent the economic health of our country as well as a beautiful part of its external, but only internal credibility, for foreign, credibility. I would also like to say that I am confident that Governor Arhar has done a thorough and thorough work and, above all, a credible work within the two mandates of this function. So far, I have not heard about any questions on the outside, and I think, if I remember the scales correctly, his work has been assessed with a high degree of confidence. The key question that comes before us today and has already been answered by the speakers before me is whether it will become after all that has already happened, including the Bank of Slovenia, part of the transition regression of the modern Slovenian state that wants to join the European Union. I'm stressing the transition regression. In this regard, the question is first raised, not by the candidate himself, but by the candidate, the President of the country is said to be. The President of the country had at least three options or at least three are public and we are familiar with them. He had the opportunity to propose a man who proved to be in this place, a man with a doctor's address, a knowledge of economics and law, with domestic and external credibility, with a man who is most determined to carry out a monetary reform, to a large extent due to the fact that inflation did not go higher. Of course, it was not only from this position that we could work in a downward direction. However, his appearance in Parliament, in the previous term when he spoke about the start of the budgetary debate, said that this man was very aware of what inflation meant, what its spirality meant if allowed. In this sense, I also understood his performances as a rather strong criticism of government spending or government views on public finances. Perhaps this and today's candidacy or election is the reason why the governor of Arhar should not have spoken about these matters this year. This year's big coalition didn't give him a word, and I think it would be right if we heard it this year. Then Mr President of the State had the opportunity to offer Dr. Boris Pleskovic, a man with exceptional professional references, certified at global level and with work in an institution called the World Bank, including a man who helped prepare the basis for a financial reform that has stood and stood by Slovenia and who is probably at world level at this time we do not see competition in the reference to the banking topic. So, Mr President then, of course, had a name that belonged to his option, not yesterday, and he chose it. He appointed or proposed to us to confirm our fellow Member Mitja Gaspari, a key person of Slovenian public finances for the last eight years. The president of the state had two doctors and one master at his disposal. The President of the country likes to talk about cross-country, he likes to stumble on the party, but this is his way and he has forgotten his criteria. He gave a man of outstanding party origin, and we cannot imagine him as a candidate other than a party if he has also run for election and was, of course, elected as a member of a party. This is also evidence of a strong political shift with the President of the country, who once proposed Mr Arhar and proposed by the government in the first round. And we're obviously in the area of total political predominance. The candidate for governor responded cordially to the invitation of the New Slovenia Group of Members and gave his views which, as they said, were acceptable and were not rejected or opposed by our Group of Members last week. Mr candidate, as probably any candidate who appears before us, knows what needs to be said on this occasion. Passwords are: independent bank, European standards, low inflation, control of banks. We also know that those who do not run or have not run for this position or, perhaps, we all know that. Well, there's no basis for opposition here. However, we are asked how the candidate, given his role in public finances in two, almost three mandates - three times the Minister of Finance - will be able to play this extremely important role independently. The management of Banka Slovenije requires order, discipline, very good team management and requires independence and also requires determination or - I would say - consistency. And I don't think it's those criteria that the candidate for the President of the State or the LDS has proved to be, even though he has at times announced the resignation. I'm just going to talk about some facts. Some others have considered both interpretations in detail. Mr candidate has been a witness to the budget deficit for four years and I do not think he was paraging it as he would the finance minister. Of course, I think, on the basis of facts such as the fact that the statistically identified deficit does not correspond to the truth; this is likely to be the subject of a discussion in the budget. Mr. candidate did not react when it went - or did not react in such a way as to see this as his opposition - when the government that belonged to her wanted us to hire and burden this country with the most megalomanic investment of the socialist type, against all European criteria, it is said, an investment in TET 3. For this investment was the government, I understand that it was the minister, or he would have left it in the hundreds of billions, but he did not do so, not before the government proposed it, not after the referendum fell from eight to two with the victory of those who proposed the referendum; and the government, of course, did not give up, the Prime Minister almost did not comment on it, in a normal democratic country the government would have done so. The next issue is tax reform. Minister Krajnc of the first democratic government has already begun to prepare the introduction of value added tax. It took seven years before it happened. We have been overtaken by all the candidate countries for entry into the European Union and Croatia, which is in a slightly different status. There was no determination here, this did not do what Slovenia promised in a different time frame. Then an incredible and only politically understandable attitude towards taxes in the time of Minister Gaspari. Taxes were not collected in tens of billions, not in some millions or in some lower numbers. They did not collect where he was literally lying - we have already talked about this and will not renew the story; but this fact is not an honour of candidacy. Gradually removing a gas tolar, which, you know, where it landed, at what percentage. This is a lack of consistency, of course also a derogation from the accepted rules of the game; people buy gasoline, whether tax or excise, live in the belief that they pay for roads, but paid for various holes, for buying social peace, for covering losing companies, not in one round, but in successive supplies, all of this happened with knowledge or with the "jegna", as Minister Gaspari put it. And all of this puts a mess in our public finances and with unregulated, untransparent and opaque finances, we will not move very quickly into the European Union. And I don't want this mess to move into another house where, apparently, this order has been so far. Transparency, transparency is a key point that the European Union is alerting us to. And if we look a little bit at the system of monitoring the financial flows with us, which was set up during the time of Minister Gaspari, then we are in the situation that today, obviously, the national assembly, not the electorate and the electorate, cannot know how much this country owes to its institutions or to those who have been promised money for the year 2000 or perhaps a few years ago - some say that they have not been covered for a year before. We know how much money some get from the country, although the contracts are clear, we don't know how much direct or direct users have been in charge for the year 2001 and we simply can't compare with anything else. This system, as it is, this system that generates, produces, generates, domestically, after Slovenian intransparency, was created during the time of Minister Gaspari. Public procurement, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start with how we adopted the law. Conscientiously, the government has sent to Parliament a law that was contrary to the regulation known by the European Union and expected us to do so. And we worked in this house - slightly different than it is now - this marriage in a few months again, because it was clear that we would not survive it. Time of Minister Gaspari, time of buying social peace and elections, ladies and gentlemen. Now some are already paying for such a policy for an account, a good-for-nothing policy, a socialist policy of life beyond what you produce; a debt policy, due to the costs of a dear country and not because of development programmes, the time of Minister Gaspari. Privatization of banks. Minister Gaspari was in this house when we decided or decided to privatise banks by law. None of this looked like anything at the time, but the National Assembly doesn't have a law on the privatisation of banks. Things haven't moved, and we've been under the same government for years, and now, after this election, I'm sure it'll go fast. Now there will be no more disturbance, because Banka Slovenije is, of course, a city, which also has a word, some responsibility in this, now this matter will be in the "family" under the slogans. I am very afraid here that Mr. candidate, who will - so I am counting - be elected, will not be able to act in accordance with what he himself has pointed out as a fundamental criterion. So he won't be able to do business independently. For if he has not been independent in his functions so far and has accepted everything that he has - and I do not say that everything is bad - he has also accepted everything that is not about public finances or making our financial situation worse. How will it resist pressure in this round when the privatisation of banks with strawed men of runaway Slovenian capital or something like that, ladies and gentlemen? How will he defend the millions who longed for small money in Slovenia? So, above all, although there is a Council of the Bank of Slovenia, but it is not entirely up to the Governor himself, it is governed by law; therefore, in this regard I have great concerns. And here our president of the country could prove to be a Democrat who is interested in both sides, the key of Slovenian politics or of Slovenian society, and he could do little to make sure that everything is not in one house. And I could offer one or another candidate, because according to their expertise, at least three of them answered, but at least one of them could be found, but it's not a problem of expertise. The problem in this case is politics. And that, the human resources detonation of the LDS, or the options that lead us to the transition regression, is dangerous for Slovenia, in my opinion. And we will no doubt be able to talk about the evidence soon. And with this decision to be as strong as I would say, just a fraction of an option, I will not talk about any coalition culture or coalition arrangements - so I think that, in particular in this area, in money that is afraid as a deer, Mr Arhar said, I would say that this concentration on - I would say - such a financial past of the candidate in particular is not - could be dangerous or harmful for Slovenia. I regret that the President did not try otherwise. For the first time, he highlighted only the criteria or distinctly the criteria of the majority. I think someone's already said, "I mean, if I offered someone else, I'd have a choice, and that's how he put us to this fact." I conclude, and as has already been said, as a member of the New Slovenia Group, I will not support this proposal, because I believe that my fear is justified, that a policy that we do not want will move there as well. And I wouldn't want us to get a headache on that. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. He was followed by his colleague Jerovšek. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, my fellow Member, Mr Gaspari. Today, it has been repeatedly pointed out that the applicant had a dilemma or opportunity to propose to this national assembly that one of the two extremely high-quality candidates. And I think a third would be extremely good if you came to terms. The fact is that we will also have a well-groomed gentleman at the head of the Bank of Slovenia, which I think is good, and I will say first of all that I highly appreciate Mr Gaspari, his professional attitude towards Parliament, but nevertheless the question is being asked. Is the choice of Mr Gaspari the best solution for the monetary system in Slovenia? The fact is that today many are asking themselves why the proposal for the governor of Slovenia did not come to Parliament in the coming period, too, to be in this place as a candidate, Mr Arhar. I ask myself about the sincerity of such later questions and also about the sincerity of all thanks today. Indeed, the fact is that there is much that can be done in this direction. If I could protest myself that the former Governor was not invited here to present a budget memorandum and a budget, he had the opportunity - in my opinion - to at least ask the President of the country. That is why I do not understand the President of the country's mourning subsequently. In view of this, I would rather believe that there were other points to play in the applicant's decision. As they say, there are some historical reminiscences. But the fact is, as I point out again, that I respect the professional references mag. Gasparia and that on this side we could call it Cyril Kosmac in the novel Happiness, where he says that people in the village sometimes said, it's lucky that he only burned the barn so that his house didn't burn down. In this direction, we could say today that it is still fortunate that Mr Gaspari, the proposer, has decided that he has not decided on any other name. For most of all, what I am going to set myself as a dilemma that inspires me today is whether it will actually be able to maintain the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. In this light, I ask whether it is accurate information that at the time the New Bank of Maribor announced the takeover of the Dolenjska Bank, you first agree to such a takeover, and then under pressure from the party that the acquisition must be carried out by the Ljubljana Bank. Indeed, even in the case of the Basic Development Programme, he first interpreted the interest as Minister of Finance, that interest was included in the total amount allocated to the Ministry of Defence, and then also, under the pressure of the party, changed this opinion. As a result, I fear that the equal opportunities of banking entities in Slovenia will be jeopardised. Although we are all in favour of pooling banks in the financial interest, we must pursue the interests of the entire Slovenian economy, which depends very much on how they are serviced by individual banks. And it is feared that the interests of the headquarters will be primarily expressed, according to Ljubljana. That is why I wonder, fellow Members, whether it would not be better if Mr Gaspari stayed in Parliament and raised the level of Parliament here - namely that he would be a parallel to Dr. Bajuku, in order to have a strong Parliament in this area in order to finally raise the reputation. I think that I could play a very large role here and that there would also be different solutions at the Bank of Slovenia level. I propose - I think that today, by deciding to maintain this role in this Parliament, we would in some way preserve and protect the integrity of Parliament and also the integrity of the candidate, because we know that in such a short time in the parliamentary seat, it is not in the best interests of Parliament to replace the position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. A replica? The debates and replicas are now five minutes long. There's a fellow Zupanov in front of you. I suggest we give my colleague Zupan's word, and then you have your word; there are no other applicants. Please, my colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable candidate, respected colleagues and colleagues! I would like to express some concerns. Citizens and citizens ask us a lot of questions about the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the field, in the sent offices we have, and express a certain fear and criticism of the proposed candidate. Their questions and conclusions would be summed up in the following. During the growing public debt, the great pressure of budgetary consumers on the unaccepted state budget, we would need a man at the head of the Bank of Slovenia who will not succumb to the pressure of the ruling LDS party. We are afraid that inflation will inevitably be high this year, so the leading set needs to be for the governor of a man who will wave the budget hole with excessive increases in money and appropriate monetary policy measures. Mr Gaspari was elected a member of the LDS list, but it has always been stressed, right in the time of the Governor, Mr Arhar, that the Governor should not be involved in politics. So the question of independence is raised. How should Slovenians who have their savings in business banks sleep peacefully if they have a hand over the tolar, a man who was one of the leading National Bank of SFRJ, when the bank's Serbian reserve was made up of the Slovenian foreign exchange reserves? I have also received a letter from the City Councillor, Mr Jarc, and allow me to read a paragraph concerning the Triglav Credit Bank, which was established in 1989 under Markovič's legislation. In October 1997 - says Mr Jarc that the city councillors of the Ljubljana City Council convened an extraordinary meeting on the urban investment of 800 million tolars in the Triglav Credit Bank, which was soon to fail and with it also a city investment. At the time of this meeting, a senior LDS official referred to the then Finance Minister Gaspari, who, two days before the publication of the bankruptcy of the Triglav Credit Bank, when "the sparrows were chirping" that the bank was in trouble, tied up in this bank a billion 300 million dollars of short-term budget surpluses. That the irony was even greater, Mr Gaspari sent a letter immediately after the bankruptcy of the Credit Bank Triglav to the city chief of finance requiring that the motives for tying the city money to this bank be explored. There is no way to get rid of the impression that these acts were not for the purpose of elevating the taxpayer’s money. Surely there is a background that is familiar to the actors, while ordinary taxpayers are hidden. They are now paying for a expensive city bus, garbage and water, for the city’s community does not have money for subsidies because it has launched it so easily in the past. Mr Jarc asks who was rescued just before the collapse of the Triglav Credit Bank with large deposits of taxpayer money into this bank. I am afraid that such and similar questions will be left without the right answer, and our lack of confidence in the candidate in such a sensitive place also, so I cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My friend Franci Rokavec asked for a word, followed by his colleague Pohorec. You have the floor, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Candidate. I would like to replicate or touch something, particularly Mr Jerovsk's debate, when he also touched on the words "sincerity". Perhaps at the beginning of today, when we heard all the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I too have been asked about the sincerity of all the thanks that have been really expressed to the Governor-General of Arhar for his work today. Then one would wonder if their representatives were wrong in their positions with the President of the State or if they had somehow changed their thinking at that time. The second would also touch on the sincerity of the representatives of the two opposition parties, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, at a consultation with the President of the State. In fact, even in this honesty, I am asked whether it has been - for example - a tactic of the Social Democratic Party, that it does not support any candidate, or a tactic of New Slovenia with its candidate, including honesty in these discussions. It would probably also be sincere for the President of the State to offer both so-called favorites a choice in these discussions, whether there was also a genuine honesty of place with the President of the State who offered these two proposals. In fact, I would add that this is a matter of responsibility. For the responsibility of all political parties. Indeed, the fact is that every good master does not change a horse that drives well. And, in fact, if we stand in the light of the economy, today we have been able to find that the Governor-in-Office, Dr. Arhar, has carried the Bank of Slovenia well, there have been no comments, and I do not think that this Parliament is working economically right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. My friend Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Charge. As you have seen and heard, our Group of Members did not specifically present a common position, which we have already stated a long time ago, that we will only follow a proposal by the President of the State to judge that both the current Governor, Mr Arhar, as a candidate, Mr Mitja Gaspari, are equivalent, that they are both equal candidates and that we will only support the one who will come with the proposal to Parliament. That's why I'm going to explain my voice. However, I feel that there is no mistake in such responsible positions if, after two six-year terms, we experience a change. I think that changes also bring a lot of positive, new people, new thinking, new opinions, maybe even different views on some of the issues, so that there can be something positive in this new proposal, which I will also vote for myself. From the point of view of the party I represent, Mr Gaspariubi has put one question to the heart: that when I respect his views on every cost of the country, on the economy, on the economic behaviour to look at this large item in the annual budget, which the State must devote to covering the deficit in the pension register, I look with one tolerance, with reasonableness. Today, the composition of our population is so great that the pensioners of Slovenia are large that it is also the fruit of some, perhaps thoughtless, retirement policy in the past period. This is how it is now, and it is necessary to live with it. That he sees this with reason and that we do not receive, as we have already received before, the evidence of an excessive cost. I wish you much success and good faith in this responsible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr Anderlič has the floor, followed by his colleague Jerovšek and colleague Peterle. All right, let's go, Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	I did not think it would be necessary to discuss much at this point because it was a clear proposal based on a broad consensus between those who were asked who the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia should be in the next term. It is free to wonder who meant it honestly or did not mean it when he spoke honestly about how the current Governor, Mr Arhar, was being discussed at the end of the second term. Surely this has been sincere on our part - Mr Rokavec, and of course the others who do not think that it is so if you go to see how many votes liberal democracy has contributed to the appointment of Mr Arhar for the first time and for the second time. You will find that we have unanimously supported this candidacy. To talk about whether this will now be somehow subordinated or subject to the LDS is unfounded, particularly because we could immediately ask the question of who has run or was most often mentioned as the candidate for the president of any political party. Mr. Arhar Nikoli! And he's never expressed those desires, but there's been a lot of talk about the current governor. Of course, I respect that someone supports a certain political option, that they agree with the programme defined by a certain political option, that at the end of the day, every citizen has the right to express his voice publicly and, of course, also in elections and also to actively participate in candidate lists or in election processes, appointments and other matters. Of course, this is not at all controversial and the same is true for both candidates, so that politics can first be seen - if this is a weakness, but I do not think that it is bad for anyone to express themselves politically - to Mr Arhar rather than to Mr Gaspari. They certainly hold our claims and the conclusions that I'm giving him all the credit for what he's done so far. It's just that the decision is what it was. I myself have been in a discussion with the President of the State, and I have said - as was a little misused today - that we will support, as we have always done so far, the proposals that the President of the State will make, because we feel some responsibility to the institution and to the President himself, because we know that he has mechanisms and everything else that comes with the most objective indicators of the possibility that someone will perform the function in the best quality and, of course, that he will also receive support in Parliament. I am not sure that in the past we have taken into account and had the latter, in particular, so that we have had this first, best proposal for a function. But we had the best support. You'll remember that not long ago. And, of course, that proposal was designed. At that time, I said, of course, that if Mr Gaspari was proposed, he would have all our support, and I was sure that at that time - 34 votes today, unfortunately not all our Members are present, but that has nothing to do with it. Once again, we have the conviction that the references Mr Gaspari has and the change in this place will be welcome for the consolidation of public finances in the direction it was drawn up and, as was finally justified in those years when Mr Arhar was Governor. If anything, then I can assure you that we Members in liberal democracy in the previous two references, when Mr Gaspari was a finance minister, were very critical and, many times, dissatisfied with the solutions that were given because we thought that some things could be done more liberally, more quickly, more openly, but he was as a good master than those who knew what public finances meant, always drew attention to all the criticism and all the problems that arose in this area. And of course, many times we have been, I say, dissatisfied, but in consensus we have accepted some of the proposals and suggestions that he has made and also supported through all the years of the budget that he has been, and given that the public debt and deficit is simply exemplary for many countries, it means, of course, that he has not acted badly on the site; on the contrary, he deserves all the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Mr Jerovšek has the floor, followed by his colleague Peterle, Barovic and Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much. First of all, I will ask Mr Anderlich in the reverse order, because he said at the outset that it was a clear proposal - is it not allowed to debate, in this case, if you think this is a clear proposal? You're problematic about how we're discussing it in this context. That's it. Secondly, I owe it to my colleague Rokavac to ask him about the honesty that I have raised myself, to say that in this case he unjustifiably gave me and his coalition partners, who could have done much more for a more honest relationship with Governor Arhar, for a less hypocritical relationship, because it was a hypocritical relationship, and in some cases also for an insidious attitude towards Governor Arhar. I myself was the one who, in the budgetary debate, protested against him in this way in the phase, when the president is now asking himself, it was not clear who would be the candidate for the governor to make him impossible as a discusser and as a representative of the budget views. This must have been designed, and this would not have happened with the sincerity of this hall; I would stress that this would not have happened. It was clear to me, who was in the opposition, that I had not been present for a week before, when these discussions were taking place here, what kind of project was it? Then a number of you could ask yourself about this, and it would certainly be good for Slovenia to have a clearer view of state finances in 2001, and so with a higher aim of preventing Mr Arhar from presenting himself in some way, including in the role of candidate for governor, it was also sacrificed that only one-sided state finances were provided here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Comrade Peterle, behind him is colleague Barovich. My friend Peterle!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Procedural note first. We used to say the word for the replica right after the speaker, but good, I'll just say it in that order. You know, I've been in the dam a number of times, or I've come up against double criteria when we're dealing with things, and here I'm replicating Mr. Pohorc. He troubled, if I say so, the term of office of the governor, who survived two terms. However, I would like to hear you say something about the President of the State, if I release his CK part, he has been elected three times for the first person of this country. Mr Prime Minister is the Prime Minister for the fourth time, but Mr Gaspari was Minister of Finance three times and once Vice Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. So I'm asking for a slightly more fair attitude towards "the hand of time." Then, Mr Anderlich, I was surprised too, because he says, because everything is clear what we are still saying. Tone, I'm sorry, but we're in Parliament and here's the talk! No, no, no. I know that nomenclature wants to end the transition with perfect peace and no obstacles, and you will do so today. Arhar had at least a small hold on certain fronts where things were under pressure that wouldn't have happened in this country. Now you're gonna round it up and the story's gonna be perfect. I'm just asking who's gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic has the floor. These are all the replicas of the colleagues who spoke before you. He's been followed by Comrade Sponik, colleague Kangler. They're all collegial replicas. Given that they last as long as replicas of five minutes and that it is difficult to identify who is replicating who, I suggest we agree on a system of reporting. My friend Barovic has the floor, followed by his colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Yesterday morning, the Oscars were distributed, five of them were given to Gladiator. Whoever may have seen him will draw a parallel with all that has been said, I express my personal opinion. Maximus was the general of the Roman army who betrayed him and became a gladiator, fighting for justice. I personally assess, given that we are used in this House to raised fingers and toes, etc. - comparing, I think it's at least fitting - that it's a mag. Gaspari is a man who could, when the needs show up and who, with his knowledge and what he has proved so far, can turn from the general into a gladiator and do for the state of Slovenia what we expect him to do in this House as well as other citizens. I have so much faith in him personally. Maybe in a year or two, you can read or pin it on me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Comrade Companion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In short, I would like to reiterate to my respectable colleague Anderlich three questions: on his position that a broad consensus had been reached on the proposed candidate; on the argument that the LDS colleagues had supported Dr. Arhar twice; and on the alleged excessive political engagement of Dr. Arhar in kind. In my firm belief, too little has been done to reach a great consensus on the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The duty of the policy and those proposed by law is that this consensus is as wide as possible. Today we find he's too small. Last but not least, I remember the debate six years ago, it was very different than today. And this is not the best trip for a newly elected governor. Secondly, the argument is, we've supported Dr. Arhar twice and we don't need him for the third time. That's not a good argument! If the action of someone is good - and you said that it is - then back him up again. But just so there's no misunderstanding, all we have here today is a proposal for a mag. Gasparium. The decision on these two names was taken at the Presidential Palace. And a third argument. But here I would most decisively reject this attempt to throw Dr. Arhar out of the game because of his alleged excessive political engagement. That's not gonna hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	A colleague of the Possons. Comrade Podobnik speaks and I ask you for peace in the hall. Please, Comrade Squirrel!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	I suggest that this argument does not continue. As we say, in our Group of Members, we estimate that there is nothing wrong with being politically defined and engaged, that is also in accordance with our Constitution and parliamentary democracy, and that is nothing wrong. But of course, to say that some of Dr. Arhar's decisions in recent months have been such that he has become too politically involved and at the same time to support someone who is our fellow Member, and this will not go through! This argument is not a good one, and leave it because it is unnecessary to argue on this subject. That's not gonna go through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	A colleague of Kangler's, a colleague of Pucka and a colleague of Anderlich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will briefly replicate to my fellow Member Jerovsk, and I hope he will not resent me when he tells me that my fellow Member Franci Rokavec said he had an insidious attitude towards Arhar. Of course, with all due respect, Comrade Jerovšek, I also believe that he did not mean you personally and that you, as far as I know you, did not have this. However, I certainly hope to state and with all responsibility, given what we have heard today in this National Assembly, I am referring to the president of your party, who has given the opinion of the Group of Members, that I will again hide behind the President of the State with my insidious attitude. Once again, colleague Janš hid behind the back of the president of the state of Milan Kučan. That's a fact. He commented on his statement at the Studio at 5 p.m. yesterday on the radio that the president of the state himself criticised the government coalition or one of the partners of the government coalition, and his colleague Janša forgot to say that he had helped him very much. But he did not support his previous bank governor when he was invited to an interview. If he supported him, and if New Slovenia supported him too, given that New Slovenia has a colleague of Peterle, who was sitting in New Slovenia at the time when he became, when he was a terminator, and when Arhar became governor of the bank, he beat his chest to the point of credit, and today he does not want to hear anything about him. Not only that, but they didn't even support him with the President of the country! And today, hiding behind the back of the President of the State and commenting on his statements to remind him of this, and you have helped him yourself. You had the opportunity to argue, to say who colleague Arhar is, what his work is so far and certainly here to take advantage of this opportunity - also fellow Member Mitja Gaspari will probably admit that he would not have been a successful finance minister if he had not been a successful Governor of the National Bank. You can't do that without it. And the Governor of the Bank, Mr Arhar, also has great credit for his success and for his attitude towards public finances. You had a good time in this national assembly today, hiding behind someone else in this hall. If you hadn't supported Arhar's colleague with the president of the state, it's too late. The proposal is in this National Assembly and we will vote on it in a few moments. You had a chance, and please don't hide behind others, but say what you think, and have a clean face.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, colleague Kangler. My friend Pucko has the floor behind him, colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A greater fighter for continuity in this country, like my colleague Peterle, I have never met. By the way, for a Continuity Fighter at the head of the SKD. This went even so far that in December 1999 he wrote a letter to the governor, Dr. Arhar, that it would not be fair for him to run for president of the Joint Party. And, of course, you're public with this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Please stick to the agenda and peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Yes, it is, and Dr. Arhar is not a candidate, and we're talking about him. So, you went even so far as to publicly slap him, to show him how good it would be if he were to be the candidate for president of the noble centre-right conservative party. And I follow your instructions, Mr President: the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is colleague Mitja Gaspari and I ask that we move on to this. And we're not talking about Frances Arhar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič has the floor first, followed by his colleague Jerovšek. We are talking about the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	It probably wouldn't have to be specifically replicated because I was clear enough in my first statement. When I spoke about the broad consensus, I talked about the necessary consensus which, at least from the letter of the President of the State, was understood and also what I heard in the conversation - would be the professional public and that public, who is particularly familiar with these issues when it was consulted, unquestionably supported that the proposal - both one and the other - said, or that in the professional sense Mr Gaspari certainly met everything - let's say - conditions, if we can even talk about the conditions here, given that this is such a specific work, requires such specific knowledge that it is likely to acquire them in various areas, in various previous engagements, and Mr Gaspari certainly obtained them by engaging in a bank, before the National Bank, and in a bank, and abroad, and so on. In this sense, it is up to us that - we have said our views earlier, we say it now, and because this proposal is really the only one here, we will also vote on it and we will support it, because we believe that this is a good proposal. And of course, by saying that we support Mr Arhar in his - and somehow we also acknowledge him for what he was doing; and what we did six years ago or earlier - or how much, a five-year term - before the two mandates, when we discussed and when we supported him, we thought honestly, and we are now thinking honestly. In this sense, there is no dilemma, I think, and anything else. This support was because the proposal was also in the National Assembly. Perhaps if there were now a proposal for someone else, perhaps even for Mr Pleskovic or for Mr Arhar, the three of them mentioned the most, mentioned a number of other names - perhaps our support for the reasons I mentioned earlier would have felt some responsibility to this institution, to the President of the country, and we believe that the previous actions were so high-quality that the proposal was justified and will receive adequate support. This is, I think, a rather principled position that we - not only in this case, but also - represent. Political engagement. Of course, I did not speak mainly of Mr Arhar's involvement, but I did answer to Mr Peterlet and Jerovšek and others, that if we were talking about political engagement, then perhaps a question could be asked earlier, but who felt more affinities to politics and to the party, etc. Mr Gaspari has indeed run for office on our list, and what he is like in this national assembly, which is not a member of that party on the list in which he has run, not only once, even twice, three times, I know the people in this Chamber. But there's no point in talking about it. Someone agrees with a political option, publicly supports it and actively and passively. So that he likes and can be elected on this list. I don't think that's a mistake if we've defined ourselves. Here, Mr Sponik and I have often agreed that this is the right approach. Of course, at that point, it has to put off the genuine and I don't know what kind of relationship with political engagement, if we're also subtracting the prohibition that it is - I think it's also in this function and some others at all - that these candidates should not be members of the leadership, for example, political parties and so on. These are things that we take strictly into account in all the treatment of candidates and also in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor. After him is the last reported colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Some of today's performances, especially on this side, yesterday's reactions and also, I would say, the insincere lamentation of Mr. Arhar, at the replica of Mr. Barovic, when he mentioned the gladiator, gave me an association to - it seems - Mr. Arhar in today's elections, it is said, the closing governor, had to welcome this assembly with a gladiatorial greeting: "Ave Caesar, Morituri te salutant" - "A respected ruler who is dying welcomes you." Indeed, some of these events were so intrusive and, of course, very unacceptable to me. At the same time, Comrade Kangler, when you are troublesome with the unexplainable support of the President of the State, you are aware that we have not done any harm to Mr Arhar, but we have protected him. In fact, our clear support has hurt a lot of candidates in that place. And from today's performance, it seems to me that you can't hide your negative feelings for Mr Janša so strongly that if Mr Janša was there to name Mr Arhar as the only choice, then Mr Arhar would be with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. My colleague Sok was last reported. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we will soon vote fast. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. It's a little late, but I've got a replica of Mr. Cyril Puck. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Comrade Juice, a moment! I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	I have a replica of the performance of Mr Cyril Puck, who tried to attack Mr Peterlet. So, I would tell him that he took fair care of discontinuity and introduced into Slovenian political space a new term called "puckism". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	This debate does not need to be brought forward because it is not an integral part of the subject matter. Anyone else want a word? I find that I am not concluding the debate. I ask Mr Gaspari, if he wants a word, in this case, of course, one of his colleagues and colleagues will have the opportunity to report to the discussion. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Mr President, since some questions have been asked, some of which are also very relevant, I think I have a duty to answer them. With regard to the question or opinion of Mr Podobnik, I would say: the practice will show who is right and how the future governor will, if I do so, exercise this independence in practice. From words to actions. So, in practice, I will try to prove that the central bank, like the institution and its leadership, is independent of the policy that has been discussed here today. In practice and in action. Mr Bayuk, Dr. Bayuk, raised an important issue of supervisory function. I completely agree with what he said. In Slovenia, the main problem in the supervision of the financial system may be the interrelationship of financial organisations, especially banks, insurance companies, investment funds and the like, this so-called cross-ownership. For this reason, I think it is important that the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia is closely linked to the supervisory functions of the two other institutions, namely the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Supervisory Agency. It is my wish, as well as the will of the National Assembly in the coming years, that these institutions gradually integrate into one supervisory financial institution, because of the nature of the financial services that are increasingly developing, not only in Europe, but also in Slovenia. In this way, the possibility of so-called snowfall will be able to rise strongly in the institutions themselves which are empowered to do so by well-coordinated control and control, not only in the field. I also agree that, as from 1 January, the deposit insurance scheme has moved to the commercial level of bank accounts and therefore the responsibility of both business banks and the central bank for the stability of the banking system is further increasing and, of course, not only is it increasing, but it is also exacerbating. With regard to Mr Janša's question, what is my view on the question of the privatisation of Slovenian banks in this case, I would say that I first expressed my opinion on the interpretation which was, I think, a year ago, in response to the questions of interpretation. I believe that it is not possible to make a combination in which, on the one hand, it would be considered to protect Slovenian interest, on the other hand, in order to protect ourselves against unhealthy ownership structures, especially those that are also borrowers in the banks they own, and on the third hand that we will open the financial market not only to the domestic, but also to foreign capital. In this case, it is necessary to choose between these, in my view, completely incompatible, at least not all of these elements, a combination that will allow: firstly, the quality performance of the bank, which means that the ownership structure must be such that the ownership is owned by the leading owner or the leading owners, leading the bank's policy towards its efficiency, profitability and business security. Another time. That, as a rule, the owners of banks should not be a company or in Slovenian we usually call an institution from the real sector, but a financial institution. And if possible, those financial institutions that invest their surpluses in shares or long-term securities, these are usually insurance companies, investment funds and - as long as they appear in Slovenia - pension funds as well. Since the size of at least one of these banks is such that the availability and liquidity of capital in Slovenia for its full ownership is too high, it is clear that the ownership or privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank will also require the participation of foreign investors, with the main ownership of the transfer of those knowledge, technologies and markets that Ljubljana Bank cannot acquire without the participation of such investors. Probably the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Bank, we are talking about these two banks, cannot per se penetrate the Western and Southern markets because of the size of capital and their exposure, but can do so in cooperation with good, quality capital and marketable co-investors. I think that the difference between the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Bank is that the Ljubljanska Banka is national or the Slovenian situation is international, while the Maribor Bank is slightly less important in this respect from the point of view of international relations or - which does not mean that, of course, I underestimate it. For this reason, I think that, of course, the position of the central bank is what is essential, that, when both banks are privatised, there is such a ownership structure that allows the stability of these two banks and the banking market - on the one hand; and, on the other hand, such consolidation of the banking market in Slovenia, which will be able to respond to the challenges of the liberalisation of capital flows in and from Slovenia, due to the conditions that we are meeting with the entry into the European Union and the development of the Slovenian economy. I've said such ideas as I've developed them myself in response to interpolation and I always represent them. I think we had similar ideas with current Governor Dr. Arhar. However, it is impossible to say in advance how the financial market in Slovenia will develop when it opens. I think that the basic concept that the Governor of the Central Bank must represent in protecting the interest of the Republic of Slovenia is the principle of reciprocity. Where Slovenian bankers or other financiers can perform in markets with their investments or with their presence, such an event may also come from Slovenia. This is a rule that applies throughout the European Union and also throughout the world. As far as Mr. Peterlet's opinion is concerned. I agree that it is possible to assess the public financial situation in Slovenia in the last eight years qualitatively from different sources. It depends primarily on what the desired view of the situation is. However, if we move away from this - I hope to say - subjective assessments of any of us and if we look at foreign references that speak in Slovenia about the latest, I think they are speaking right at the presentation at the New Slovenia Club, this is a study of the International Monetary Fund that will come out - I think now in April, the so-called "Ocasional Paper" which speaks of all five countries wishing to join the European Union; it is said, together with Slovakia. Slovenia has not been evaluated in this material in the way it has recently been present in the debates on public finances in Slovenia, not from the point of view of its current business, says the budget, nor from the point of view of public debt. The International Rating Agency has seen this marked deterioration in Slovenia by worsening its rating, and the European Union has also not seen this marked deterioration when it speaks of the Member States best prepared to join the European Union. However, with regard to the organisation of the budget and public finances, I hope that, at the moment, Slovenia, through its methodology of preparing the state budget, accounting and everything accompanying the clarity and transparency of the implementation of the budget where the European Commission has adopted the same standards and working methods as the European Commission has now adopted for its budget. However, I am not saying, of course, that the Slovenian budget or overall public finances could not have been better in Slovenia in these eight years. We know where the basic structural problems are, and I hope that the National Assembly in this composition will be more successful and will know some negative tendencies to stop and other so-called positive ones to accelerate. However, in any event, it will be a matter of urgent restrictive measures if we are to achieve within the European Union the competitive advantages that we need to achieve, in addition to those positive and development-oriented measures that the National Assembly will also adopt with laws and other measures. With regard to tax reform, TET 3 and tax treatment, I would say the same. It is true that I myself personally and the Ministry have experienced criticism of the non-recovery of taxes, but if you take an objective criterion that also applies in the world, how much unrecovered taxes on the annual amount of taxes required, then Slovenia - under this criterion I speak, it is not subjective criteria - it does not belong to countries that are poor or unsatisfactory, or very poorly recover tax debts. The European Commission, which will increasingly control this part of the functioning of the country or of the tax system, will also be able to do so in future. However, with regard to tax reform, the debate could of course be longer, whether it would be wise to introduce value added tax earlier or not. When that deficit in value added tax came last year, the criticism was mainly that the minister or government could not plan, but at the same time we did not realize or were not aware of those who criticised this measure, that the essence of this value added tax was that when exports were increasing above expectations, when investments were growing above planned and when consumption was growing worse than planned, of course, the collection of value added tax could not be the same as expected. This is just, if I can simplify: when the economy is doing very well, the country with value added tax is going slightly worse. Unfortunately, the logic of value added tax is all over the world, including us. With regard to the question of New Bank of Credit Maribor and the Dolenjska banka or related New Bank of Ljubljana, my actions were also confirmed by public statements at the time and you can check how these things happened if you want. The Minister of Finance had no preference either for Ljubljana or for the Maribor Bank when it came to attempting to take over the Dolenjska Bank, but this is in principle a matter of supervisory committees or competition. On the market, what the Ministry of Finance had prevented or disagreed with was that state-owned banks used liquid assets from their balance sheets for such market operations, but should do so in order to replace shares, insofar as one such interest would be for such acquisitions. A colleague from New Slovenia also assured me that I would give in or that if I had been elected, I would give in to the pressure of the budget on inflation. Here I can say, and this is not news that the Bank of Slovenia law does not allow the lending of the budget - by law; the budget cannot be indebted to the Bank of Slovenia. This is true in this law, in the new law under preparation, this clause will, of course, remain because it is a European clause in force in the European Central Bank system; therefore, there can be no financing of the budget by the central bank. Of course, if pressures come from abroad, especially through capital inflows, at that time of course it is the function of the central bank to try to sterilise these inflows so as to reduce that this does not affect the excessive supply of money and thus pressure on price increases. As far as breaking into the monetary system of the former state is concerned, I also told the group; anyone who wanted to do so could also later check it, then it was the use of the giro of the National Bank of Serbia's account, which it had, like all the national banks of the Republic and the provinces, in that system and the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time it happened, could not: for the first time, act and was not informed. This was subsequently informed. And then by the actions of the central bank, it reduced the primary emissions for the selective coverage of the then National Bank of Serbia. With regard to the Triglav Bank, unfortunately, they didn't whine the birds on the branches to go bankrupt. There was no warning of that on either side. The bank was classified as a normal bank in the system. The money that was used by the Ministry of Economy was then used to restructure the operation of Cimos, which is today - thank God - a successful company that operates both in Slovenia and Croatia. Finally, I would like to thank you for all the opinions that have been expressed so positive and so negative, because, if I am elected, I will equally respect all these opinions and I hope to cooperate well with all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	With your performance, mag. Gaspari, the debate remains open, of course. Comrade Andrej Bajuk wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. I am very grateful for your explanations, of course some are still open. But I just want to find out the following. After all that you have said, you also agree on the necessity of strengthening control on our financial system, that I consider your words to be a support to achieve a revision of the auditing law, which is at the heart of everything and which has not allowed us to know these things in time and in the current composition it also allows us to do so. Thank you very much, and I hope that if you are elected as governor, you will also stand for the law of auditing to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. My friend Pucko wants a word. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would tell my respectable colleague Bajuk that it is likely then that colleague Gaspari will no longer be a Member and will not be able to help change the law on auditing with all his good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I find that no, and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Mitja Gaspari for the Governor of Banka Slovenije for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 80 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 53 Members and Members voted in favour of the proposal by the President of the Republic and 14 opposed them. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Mitja Gaspari new [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I'm guessing he was a magician. Mitja Gaspari is appointed Governor of Banka Slovenije for a period of six years. [[...]] The function of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will begin on 1 April 2001. On the basis of the above, I take note of the following conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finds that it was a mag. Mitja Gaspari is appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, which is incompatible with the function of a Member under Article 10 of the Law on Members, from the date on which he takes office as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, in accordance with the fifth indent of the first and second paragraphs of Article 9 of the Law on Members and thus terminates the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly." This finding will inform the Republic Election Commission. Colleagues and colleagues, in view of the thoughts expressed about Dr. France Arhar's work so far in the position of Governor of the Bank, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly, to date, to the governor of mags. We congratulate Arhar on his work and wish him well on his continuing professional path. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We move on the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Does the President of the Court of Auditors want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the State Council for Patience to have a representative of the Court of Auditors come to the Chamber. We're continuing our session. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors! I'm asking you, do you want a word? [[You don't want a word.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and submitted a report to the assembly. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does he want a candidate's word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[I don't see any interest.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Neither did anyone sign up for the word, so I am concluding this debate. May I have your attention in the hall? We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the vote for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall be secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-in-Office, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission, namely colleague Rudolf Mojet, Branka Kelemino, Aurelia Jurija and colleague Majdo Zupan. I'm a committee member as chairman myself. Does anyone want to object to this proposal, or does he have a different proposal? [[No, no, ……]] If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We are voting on the composition of the Commission, as I have stated. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 60 agreed with the proposal, no one objected to it, so it was accepted. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the exercise of the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall mark on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for her, i.e. 46 Members or more. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please, to report to room 117, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 6 p.m. and 30 minutes, sorry 16 hours and 30 minutes and will last until 16 p.m. 50 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. The election results will be announced at 5 p.m. We are moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Please, by inserting the cards into the voting devices, we will determine the conclusion in the Chamber. We're picking up the presence in the hall! There are 74 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue its work. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 42(1) of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors proposed Ms Nevenko Cukon Mavec as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote took place on Tuesday 27 March 2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 76 ballots were distributed. 76 ballots were delivered, and one voice was invalid. There were 75 valid ballots. 45 Members voted in favour and 30 Members in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the proposed candidate Nevenka Cukon Mavec was not appointed second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 42, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors shall, within 15 days of the vote in which the previous proposal did not receive the necessary majority, submit a new proposal. Thank you both for being here. We continue with the item on the agenda, this is the proposal of the Judicial Council on the election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election to serve as a district judge at the District Court in Nov. City, Judges for Offences at the Judge of Murska Sobota, two senior judges at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a district judge at the Labour Court in Koper, and a motion for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? He's not here. The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly, and a report was submitted and a motion for resolutions would the President or the rapporteur like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and we move on to a decision. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Mark Zupanič to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the Regional Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. 76 colleagues and colleagues are present. 46 supported the proposal, 5 opposed it. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Marija Filipič to the judicial office of Judge for Offences at the Judge for the Offences of Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. It's 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Bogdana Bradač to the judicial office of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. Fifty-five opposed the vote. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of the Magi. Mire Dobravec Jalen in judicial capacity at the higher court of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 77 colleagues and colleagues are present. The vote was 49 and 3 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Barbara Berce Zada to the judicial office of the District Court in the working court in Koper. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 52 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] In this way, I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decree appointing Mr Vladimir Balažica to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia as Judge of the Supreme Court. We're voting. 77 colleagues and colleagues are present. 50 supported the proposal, 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the work of security and intelligence services. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no representative of the secretariat. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Since there is no debate, we will vote on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 59 votes in favour, 4 against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will decide on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence. The proposal was submitted by the committee responsible for the consideration of the meeting. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the motion for a decree. We're voting. 76 colleagues and colleagues are present. 59 votes and 4 against it. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will decide on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters. This proposal has also been proposed by this Commission for consideration. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 58 votes in favour, 2 against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. Would you like to speak to the chairman of the committee responsible who proposed the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? There is no interest in the debate, so we will decide on the proposal. We're voting. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The motion for a decree was supported by 57 colleagues and one opposed it. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The president doesn't want a word. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? No one wants to discuss it, so we will decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 77 colleagues and colleagues are present. 66 votes in favour, one objecting. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will decide on the proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? No one wants to discuss it, so I am closing the debate and putting the decision to a vote. We're voting. 77 colleagues and colleagues voted. 67 were in favour and 2 were in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. Does the President of the competent commission want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. 76 colleagues and colleagues are present. 40 votes in favour, 22 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] The proposal was adopted. We decide on the proposal for a decree establishing the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the motion for a ruling. There are 77 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 45 supported by the proposal, 7 opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] The motion for a decision shall be adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. Does the President of the competent commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 78 colleagues and colleagues present, 60 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that this motion for a decision has also been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I make a proposal to the General Assembly to proceed with the 39th item of the agenda - the decision on the candidate for the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. Twice this decision has already been postponed by the National Assembly and I propose that we decide on this today, while we have a human resources agenda. This is a procedural proposal and I'm giving it to the National Assembly for review. We are voting on this proposal. Seventy-seven colleagues and colleagues voted or were present and 53 and 8 opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 8th.]] That's how we move on to 39. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision appointing the Secretary-General of the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decree was submitted to the assembly by the Election, Appointment and Administrative Commission for its consideration and adoption. The Commission proposes to the Assembly that Mrs Jožica Velišček be appointed Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the President of the competent commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Nor shall the representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? No one wants to discuss it, so I propose that we decide on the proposal. I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 41 votes in favour, 14 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I would like to congratulate all those who have been appointed to positions today by the adoption of the decree. [[...]] [[Applause]] I suggest we take a five-minute break and then proceed with the agenda so that we can prepare ourselves. [[...]] Please. Five minutes. We're moving on to point 10. Five-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	We're continuing the session. Please insert the cards to establish presence. There are 66 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We're going to continue with the 10th. Agenda items, namely the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the List of Populations, Estates and Housing in the Republic of Slovenia in the year 2001. The debate was opened on Friday, 23.3.2001, with the introduction of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Banovec, followed by a presentation by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc, Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, and a presentation by the Head of the SLS+SKD Group, Mr Janez Podobnik. The point was then interrupted. Procedural? Mr. Tone Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	I propose, on a procedural basis, that the National Assembly should move to point 13, namely, the Telecommunications Act, given that the law is in quick procedure and that it is under consideration, I propose that we do this point. The referendum initiative is put forward, but given that it is at the national assembly, that the law be adopted and, of course, if the President decides to collect signatures for the referendum, if of course this initiative [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me? [[...]] No, no, referendum. A request has been made to collect signatures for a referendum on this law. That's what I'm talking about. And if the President of the National Assembly decides to set a deadline if the initiative meets the conditions, he can still do so. I therefore propose that we bring this law to its end and then share the fate it will earn.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Given that, on the basis of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, during a meeting of the National Assembly, a change in the order in which certain items of the agenda are dealt with, this procedural or amendment proposal may be tabled and put to the vote because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] We decide that the National Assembly will continue its consideration of item 13 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a Telecommunications Act - a rapid procedure. We are voting on this moment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 36 votes to 20. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed amendment to the agenda has been adopted, and we therefore continue to do so. We're moving to treatment 13. Agenda items - Proposal for a Telecommunications Act. We will also have to wait for a government representative to give us an introductory explanation and representatives of the secretariat. Mr. Sok, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose a half-hour recess so that we can prepare ourselves for this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	On the procedural proposal to suspend this item in half an hour, so that Members can prepare themselves and then we proceed - I am putting this procedural proposal to the vote. The practice of the National Assembly is, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that before a vote without a vote, an individual parliamentary group may be given the opportunity to consult to give it a suitable deadline, as the proposal was supported by 13 votes in favour and 6 against, we interrupt the half-hour session to prepare the parliamentary groups and continue working at 6 p.m. [[...]] In view of the situation that the proposal to suspend work has been put to the vote, we continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the vote on the agenda. Thank you very much.
